ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e32	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Ketil Kjenseth, Else-May Norderhus, Tore Storehaug and Lene Westgaard-Halle on leave from 9 to 13 December and from the representative of Ole André Myhrvold on leave from 9 to 12 December – all to attend the 25th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, COP25, in Madrid by the representatives of Haarek Riveres, Marianne Marthinsen, Liv Signe Navarsete, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Erlend Wiborg on leave from 9 to 11 December and by the representatives of Trond Helleland and Tellef Inge Morland on leave from 9 to 12 December – all to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington DC by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Tor André Johnsen from 6 December onwards and until further notice on the leave of the representative Heidi Greni on 9 and 10 December to attend the Bureau meeting of the Nordic Council of Hadeland These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. From the first representatives of East-Agder and South-Trøndelag, Abel Cecilie Knibe Kroglund and Geir Arild Espnes respectively, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in the Stortinge under the representatives Tellef Inge Mørland and Heidi Grenis permisions respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For East Agder: Kristine Hallingstad 9.–12. December For Akershus: Anne Kristine Linnestad 9.-11. December For Buskerud: Iselin Haugo 9–12. December For Hedmark: Johan Aas December 6th and until further notice For More and Romesdal: Tove-Lise Square 9-13. December For Uppland: Ingerd Thon Hagaseth 9–13. December For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai 9.-11. ==References====External links== December For Sogn and Fjordane: Steinar Ness 9.-11. ==References====External links== December For Sør-Trøndelag: Marte Løvik 9.-10. December For Vestfold: Renate Silver Berge 9-13. December For Eastfold: Elin Tvete 9.-12. ==References====External links== December
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e194	Johan Aas is present and will take the seat. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e201	On behalf of the major representative Torleif Hamre and myself, I would like to make proposals to ensure basic human rights and competence-based recruitment standards in the care of the elderly and in other municipal care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e206	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e224	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies from the main number of participants and six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e235	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank not only the members of the Committee, but also the Secretariat and the text centre here at Stortinget, who in these days are working far by night to complete the documents we are going to deal with in the Chamber. It's a big sector we're responsible for, with over 1.6 million people when we take care of those who both work and have their daily work in kindergartens, schools, universities and colleges. Throughout the year, both opposition parties and government parties meet on many of these on our visits around kindergartens and schools. We meet apprentices, we talk to teachers, principals, professors and researchers. The knowledge we gain during the year, we try to pull in and show back to the government budget that is being presented. The opposition parties are trying to present it in their alternative state budget and show their bets there. I assume that the respective parties themselves will present their proposals and decisions today. This is the first state budget to be presented by a non-socialist majority government, and many feared enough that the hearing we had in October would mean nothing in particular. Fortunately, I am glad that we have denied it, because the parties have also negotiated after the government made its proposal. For our committee, it has made significant changes, such as: Twenty-five million. kr more for professional equipment, money for the school ship «Gann», start-up funds for Feiring secondary school, and we have, among other things, removed the cut that was contained in the association of studies. Furthermore, the government parties in the Education Committee have made further changes, such as: return funds to the Global School. We have been able to further strengthen the real-time position at the Talent Centre, but also extra money for Newton-room. This first shows that the Storting is not just a curve for the government, but that we're changing things that we think are necessary, and that we can agree on. Secondly, it shows that the hearings here at Stortinget actually matter, even if we have a majority rule. The last time it was the majority government was in 2012. I've read a hearing response from that fall. I'm not going to spend time reading out what was going on there, but it was a useful reminder that it's actually happened a lot in the last six years. I can mention professional careers, teacher's vows, several employees in kindergarten and school, more stringent bullying laws, a great deal of higher education and not least research, the students have received more student support, and there are many more student homes being built. The results of these years are that the students learn more and are more present, the characters get better, the absence goes down, the drop-offs go down, the bullies go down, there are more teachers, more people apply for a profession, and we've made a record in apprenticeships four years in a row. As a member of a party that goes into the seventh year of government, one can easily fall for the temptation to hit the chest and say that most arrows point in the right direction, boasting of everything we get, settle down with it and say that we go miles in the same direction, so this goes well. However, I do not intend to do so. The arrows point in the right direction, but the latest PISA study shows that there are also challenges. Although we see that policy is largely effective, the main challenges remain almost the same as when we came into government in 2013. 50000 pupils are given special education decisions every year. About 40,000 students experience being bullied two to three times a month. Thousands continue to leave school without being able to read and write properly – and may not be able to write their own job application. Still, four of the six-year-olds who started at random in a first class in the fall are at risk of not completing thirteen years of schooling. Still, there are thousands of students who do not get a learning contract, and we are due to lack about. 100 000 more skilled workers in 20 years. Politics is a test of patience. If you are a transport policy, you can quickly see that if you donate money for increased maintenance, you will find new asphalt. This is rarely the case in our field. The final results of bets, actions and changes in the education sector are only seen in five or perhaps as much as twenty years. And the main challenge I just mentioned, we're lucky to be at it. A major communication on early interventions has now been presented. It addresses the challenges we face in special education, where we know that almost half of the students are taught unqualified. We know that help is too late, that it's considered exclusive, and that there's too much time to write reports. We – everyone who has been in a government party for the last ten to twenty years – have simply failed those who need it most. Special education has been treated in a vote for years, but I hope and believe that the work on the gross domestic product now in the new year will be the start of a positive change in this field. The aim, of course, is to reduce the number of people in need of special education, and most of those in difficulty with reading and writing receive special education. With more and more childhood teachers, more further training of teachers, more intensive training when the need for help arises, so that the students experience mastery feelings before the loss comes to fruition, I am positive that we will see better results for reading and writing difficulties in a few years' time. Having difficulty in reading and writing, just being one of those given special instruction, can also lead to bullying. If we can do more here, we'll also see a further reduction in the amount of bullying. Now specify 6.1 pst. that they experience bullying. It's still too high a number, but we've done a lot, and it's the lowest that's ever been measured. The goal is for everyone to live bully-free lives, and to make it happen, someone has a strong desire even to change the school environment, even though we have made it easier for schools to make sure that it is the bully to change school – simply because a new circle and new surroundings can get them new friends and give them a new start. That's why I'm glad that the government is working on introducing free school choices into all the counties of the country. Even choosing what type of school and where you want to go is for me a natural right for a student, and it's about moving the power of the student, who, after all, is going to live with the consequences of the decision. Fewer special education, fewer bullying cases and more people who learn to read and write will most likely lead to the completion of 13 years of schooling by several of those who started in the first class in the fall. We know that if problems get started, grow and grow big during primary school, it will be very difficult to get through high school. That's why this work is so important. We know we'll need 100,000 more skilled workers in 20 years. Then we have two alternatives. It's either importing the labour force, or training people themselves. We want to train them ourselves, and in government we have a professional career, among other things. with increased apprenticeship grants, public and tender requirements for apprentices. To next year, we will change the supply structure so that it is better suited to the needs of the business community, and we will apply professional rights to the common subjects so that more of the teaching is about what they will actually need in the workplace. Next year, we're going to change the equipment grant, which has been a requirement of the Student Organisation for years, and we're going to get $25 million. kr for secondary equipment, where we include: shall look at the gift-enhancing model. It's a model that I think could lead to schools getting an even closer cooperation with business and being a win-win situation for both the student, the school and those who are going to have the student in work later. So we still have a number of challenges to solve. It's done a lot of good in these years, things are in the starter pit, and there's a lot of good in this budget. In the Advancement Party, we are impatient. We would like to see even clearer bets in some areas, but we see that the arrows point in the right direction, and that what we do is to make a difference. As long as we see results from the work we do, this is very meaningful to do. I am pleased that today we are going to adopt a budget for the education sector that will continue to provide more teachers, more further training, continuing professionalism and better student welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e268	In a page post in Dagbladet on 26 November this year, the representative Steffensen writes that we need more people who work in a dresser rather than in a dress. It is good to see that he is dressed today. He shows that the unemployment rate can then go down to 2.2 pst. in 2020. This is in stark contrast to what his party trap Tord Lien, the current NHO chief of the Trondelag, says in the Address Paper on 19 November. Only in Trøndelag are there 415 bankruptcies, forced liquidations and forced resolution. Business competition is becoming increasingly tougher, margins are decreasing, and six out of ten NHO companies lack staff with the right skills. I would like to ask the Conservative representative, Mr Steffensen, from the Right-wing Government: can he draw up three examples in this budget that will increase access to professionals for the companies that are asking for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e275	First of all, there's no doubt that we have to trust the SSB's saying that unemployment is going down and seems to go down just because a good policy is being pursued in this area. What's in the budget, and then I think about the whole budget, is that when I'm out on company visits and asking companies what's needed for them to experience growth and development in their region, they're always talking about tax relief and infrastructure investment. It's massively off in the budget. As far as the education budget is concerned, it is simply a matter of professionalism, which we started in 2013 and have continued this year, among other things. by changing the device format and by betting on professional equipment. It's part of a bigger bet, which we see as the result of the fact that there are now more people applying for a profession, there are more who will become a skilled worker, and there will be more apprenticeships every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e282	This wasn't exactly a good answer. I don't think you get any more people who work in the basement over in the suit with the budget that has been put forward, and I have to say that with this budget, there are probably still more people who can talk in a cathedral rather than work in a cathedral. Therefore, my question is: On the first page of the South-Trøndelag newspaper, it says on 2 December that a local company named Jankos could have increased sales by several million kroner in Snillfjord if they had better access to professionals. Daily director Jan Rune Berdal in Jankos says: «Many have occurred since the company was established in 1993. In 2019, one of the company's biggest challenges is to provide enough people [[...]] From the answer the representative Steffensen gave here, I can't see how we can develop this in a good way, so that more applicants apply in a professional field. It's about what budget lines we can point to that will produce better results in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e296	For example, there may be 100 more college places. It's a concrete thing that makes sure that we continue our professional careers. It's a little strange to experience criticism from the Workers' Party, which didn't do anything about the apprentice's grant in the years they were in government. There was no evidence of any professionalism. For six years, we have been strongly involved in vocational and higher vocational education. There are now 750 new college places in these years, as well as adjusting the apprenticeship grant seven times. We have ensured that the public obligation to bring in apprentices also through tendering procedures, and we see that the professions have been strengthened. Several apply to the profession, several complete the profession, and we see that there will be a record in the number of apprentices for the fourth consecutive year. There is no doubt that this government is making sure that there are more in the dresser, not just in the dresser.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e305	There is still a high drop-out problem in secondary education, and the highest is the drop-out in professional education. At the same time, centralisation and the imposition of character-based admissions to high school mean that more young people are forced to move on hibernation when they are 15 years old. The central party believes that the lack of funding for professionals in general and out-of-home students in particular weakens the free principle in secondary school. On November 26, Ylva E. The neck in Brønnøysunds Avis and told me that she left with only NOK 429 of the housing allowance to live for after the rent had been paid. Does the Progress Party believe that it is fair for students who have to take the extra burden of moving on their furniture to live below the poverty line when housing support and equipment support are not close to the expenditure of their students?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e310	I know the system of housing support. I come myself from a small island with 500 inhabitants, and I had to move on and stay on the furniture. We could say that the support is not enough to cover all the costs for all the students. But that's important to us. We see that Norway is a long-term country, and everyone should have the opportunity to choose the education they want. That's why we're using 1 billion. kr on housing stock. The amount could certainly have been even higher, but then that's the level it's at. When it comes to character-based recording, as the representative mentions, I think it's a very important thing that students actually have free school choices. Even I chose to go to a school that was further away from my municipality, because I wanted to go to a school, applied and got the opportunity to go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e317	It is a backside of free choice that students can lose offers that they could otherwise have in their neighbourhood because they are exposed to competition. Freedom of individual students may in fact be lacking in freedom to maintain a school offer. But we get to say as he said, 'With the crack of voice, nothing is new under the sun'. On 27 November, the Free Trade Movement wrote: ‘LO and NHO cease work on curricula in protest’. We then refer to the work on new curricula in the professional fields. They believe they have too little influence and too short deadlines. Does the Progress Party believe that it is not important for the NHO and the LO to have good influence and to be tempted to do so, so that they can make good representations that will also meet the needs of the labour market when new curricula are put in place for professional subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e330	We're very concerned that we're going to put in place good curricula for professional science. That work I am sure will continue, and that it will be completed in good time, so I am not so worried about it. When it comes to character-based admissions, that is, free school choices, that the representative was in, it's typical to see how the Center Party feels that they own the students and will control the students. They believe it is right that state politicians should decide where to go to school. I think it's a natural right students have to be able to choose school themselves. The centre party is engaged in centralisation. I believe that there is no greater decentralization than moving power and decisions away from politicians and bureaucrats to each student, so that they will have greater influence over their own lives. I think it's quite natural that the efforts you make in high school should also be involved and influence the choice of where to study when to start high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e337	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e342	I am proud to be able to present the Workers' Party's alternative budget for education and research, proud of being able to present offensive bets in kindergarten, school and research, a social democratic force to give our children and society the knowledge we need for the future. It is important that we have a kindergarten and school that gives all children the basis for work, participation and good life, and that all children have the same opportunity to succeed. We add up to a more ambitious pedagogical norm in kindergarten, more teachers, more early efforts, fight against bullying, school food and better school health. For the Workers' Party, it's important to have a common school that sees the whole student, because that's how our children learn best. There is no contrast between learning and well-being. We want everyone to learn more and thrive better, and all students to meet teachers with time and resources, so that they learn better. That's why we're betting on more teachers, better teacher recruitment, to solve the growing teaching shortage the government is just looking at. We believe that the community must train the labour that our society needs, both masters and masters. That's why we put in a practical school bag and we want to think about high school. That is why we are proposing a professional pool with an apprenticeship guarantee and equipment lift, and that is why we have a massive investment in several places of study and vocational training. But if one looks at the government's knowledge budget, it reminds more of an old, worn-out Grand Prix hit from a time gone. From the government, only old melodies flow, and a lot of people wonder when they'll wake up and ask themselves what's going on. The contrast is therefore great with the Workers' Party's alternative budget, which shows completely different ambitions for School-Norway. And no, it's not just dreams and fantasies, it's a budget it's 'winger' by, and the more one hears about the Workers' Party's bets in our budget, yes, then 'winger' it just more and more. But there are also exciting times for Norwegian school. Professional renewal is to be rolled out, curricula are to be new, and even the Minister of Knowledge of the Right is to be cheered for more play and practical school. I'm happy too. Professional renewal should provide us with slimmer curricula, fewer skills objectives and more active, practical and exploratory learning. But there is also cause for concern. I'm worried that the good intentions of the trade renewal will actually mean changes for students and teachers in classrooms around Norway. I think the PISA results show the need for a broader knowledge view. And this government has to stop believing that it can bring about such big changes in school without paying for it. Schools now have an enormously short time to make major changes, without money and time to do that job. There is not enough funding available for the purchase of new learning material, there is no time for training and preparation for teachers, and there is a need for a change in pace for a better digitisation of the school. The headless digitization with which the government now operates, I believe, increases the resistance to digital solutions. The last time we saw that the government's own Minister of Digitalisation was out and worried. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a plan, a more comprehensive effort, and it is a pity that our proposal today is being voted down. The new curricula are also just a step on the way. Even more important is having enough teachers, proper equipment and up-to-date teaching materials, as we propose in our budget – as a boost in the local economy to employ more teachers and to introduce our early effort reform, a reading, writing, and calculation guarantee that ensures the youngest children who are in need of training, the help they need. These grips have never been more important, because it is now that we need to take action to reverse the trend. Norwegian school is facing a serious shortage of teachers, and the problem will increase in the coming years. The Khrono website recently reported that there are 349 empty study places on teacher training. This is a symptom of something bigger, because we're expected to lack 5,800 qualified teachers in 2040, according to the SSB. Already, the proportion of unqualified teachers teaching in the classroom is the highest in over 15 years – an increase of almost 50 pst. since the right took over the governance in 2013. In recent years, several unqualified persons have been put into teaching to cover teaching shortages, and half of the hours of special education in primary school are now conducted by assistants who are not qualified to teach. Fortunately, the Workers' Party controls most municipalities in Norway. This means that more teachers are employed in municipalities like Ålesund and Oslo, but the local economy of the Right-Registration is so tight that there is no room for hiring enough teachers. This is serious. With this I also address the Workers' Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e370	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e377	It is no secret that the Workers’ Party and the Right ‘swinger’ go to different songs in school policy. The Labour Party has free school food as its main concern, and the Right has prioritised more good teachers and early efforts. What surprised me in the alternative budget of the Workers' Party was that even with 10 billion. Tax increases are not close to paying for their principal school commitments. The working party has promised free SFO for all 1st classes, but finds room for only a few hours a week. The Workers' Party has promised a major leisure reform in which all leisure activities are to be included in the SFO and AKS, but in its alternative budget they only propose SEK 47 per student. It won't be much long and turn for 25 cents a day. School food costs at least $3.6 billion. kr. The working party proposes to grant 16 pst. of the total cost, while the other half of the bill is sent to the municipalities. My question to the representative Tvedt Solberg is whether he knows how many billions of dollars the Labour Party must find in the school budgets in the future in order not to have a breach of promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e384	Let me start with the contradiction that the Right pulls up, where one says it's a contrast between well-being and learning, a contrast between investing in early work and school food. I totally disagree with that. It is a contrast in school policy that exists only in the ideological eyes of the Right in school. The Labour Party believes and we show in our budgets that it is possible to bet on both. We have a huge bet, over 1 billion. kr, at early school, on quality, on our reading, writing and computing guarantees, and at the same time we manage to prioritise SFO, as it was said, and school food. I would also like the Workers' Party to crash, and that we were allowed to make the entire budget. We can't bring in anything we want in a year. We have also said in our budget that it will take time to reverse the grips that the right-wing government has done and to implement what is our policy. But the most important thing we do in our budget is to start at it. We're starting a kick-off against the free SFO, a kick-off with school food at all schools, and then I think the representative from the Right knows that such a huge lift can't do in a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e389	25 cents to introduce a leisure reform I do not call an escalation. That's what I call small things that are going to eat up the school budget. That's the point. For even the Working Party cannot use one penny several times. If the plan isn't to raise the taxes by 10 billion. kr every year, there is no room in the future to bet on early efforts and good teachers. You really don't just have to look at future budgets. Let's do this budget. The Workers' Party has now reversed the skills requirements of teachers, reversed the increased qualifications of teacher training, and now the teacher-specialist system – a system that more than 1,000 teachers are applying for, which gives attractive career paths in the classroom with the students and does not need to leave the classroom. Then really is my question to the representative Tvedt Solberg: Does he know what will be the next measure of competence that the Workers' Party will have to cut and downgrade in the years to come, if you don't want to avoid a breach of promises about school food and SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e396	I know that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is very concerned about being able to prioritise in the budgets. The working party's alternative budget is very clear – even better than the government’s – precisely to give priority to what is important, so that a capable person can make an enormous effort both at early work and at school, at learning and well-being. When it comes to the issues of competence requirements and the teacher-specialist system, it has been important for the Workers' Party to see the realities of the school. I think it's a pity that the government is so blind to the changes that happen at school. Now we are facing a huge teaching shortage. On the Right Guard, there have never been any more unqualified people who are in Norwegian classrooms and teach Norwegian students. That's why we've gone against the 4 requirement. That is why we have opposed a demand for skills with retroactive effect, and we are re-prioritising them to a broader focus on continuing education. The teacher-specialist system is a system against which trade unions are opposed. We think it's bad, and that's why we don't want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e403	The Labour Party has criticised the ABE reform but has not included anything in its alternative budget. Now we heard from the representative in the pulpit that he also criticised that it is not enough for the purchase of teaching material, but it is also not done in the budget of the Labour Party. We also heard him talk about headless digitisation – and that from the party that was elected in 2017 to give all 630,000 primary school students their own iPad. I guess that's a promise that the Workers' Party has still planned to make, along with another promise that is not in the budget. It's twelve months of student support for students with children. At the same time, we know that it's only 10 pst. the cost of the so-called free indoor school food. The representative said it's a big promise, and you can't expect to do it all in a year. I wonder how long does the representative realize that it will take to implement the promises if the Workers' Party had ruled? How much would it cost, and how will it be covered in? Is it in the form of increased taxes to ordinary people, or is it about cutting in the education sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e410	Actually, this answer could have been very short. We'll do it over four years, as it is when you have election programs. We are so pleased that the Progress Party has great faith in the Workers' Party's achievements in politics and in what we can manage to achieve. We share the zeal for Viking and hope for good performance in the Cup final this weekend. But I just have to repeat that we can't take care of everything in a year. We've put off 3 billion. kr more to the local economy. It would mean a completely different space to introduce the innovation, to more teachers, to better buy more learning material and more time. We have now said that we want a different, comprehensive plan for the digitisation of the school, and we have also promoted a loose proposal today about twelve months of student support and changes in the conversion system. This is something we're also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e417	The representative instead said that it was important to deal with the realities of school. I visit a lot of schools to learn a little about how things are. Just a few weeks ago, I was at Bangsund School in Namsos. It's one of the municipalities that is now introducing free school food. When I asked them what they were busy about, what they needed more money for, they said that they wanted environmental therapists, they want more competence at basic reading. They wanted more books in the school library, and they wanted a new school kitchen. There was no one I met who said they wanted free school food. Nevertheless, it has been one of the main promises of the Workers' Party. There's something you spend on in the budget, and at the same time you cut the teacher's specialist system, which the representative Tybring-Gjedde was in. You cut 160 million. NOK 200 million. kr that is contained, i.e. about an eradication of the entire scheme, a scheme that is popular in many of the schools that have received it, which contributes to a professional lift both for the individual and for the entire school. My question is: why does the Workers' Party want to cut down on competence measures that the school needs, and rather bet on free bread slices that no demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e423	I also want to take the opportunity to say that I visit a lot of schools and talk to many teachers. Teachers who the representative met at Bangsund School in Namsos should have voted at the Workers' Party and hoped that our budget would have a majority. There is money for the introduction of free school food and money for environmental therapists, for more teachers and for a powerful early effort effort, which would mean your own effort teams to help students who are struggling in different disciplines. Then they had all their wishes fulfilled. I just want to repeat that there is no contradiction between investing in school food, as we also do on our health budget – it is important to underline – and the enormous effort, with billions more than the government, that we have at school. Let me again take the opportunity to say that the teacher-specialist system is against us, an arrangement that we heard at the hearing that also the trade unions are against. The evaluations show that it works extremely poorly, and it is implemented most as a performance project by the government. Turns out it doesn't help the schools. [[The President clubs.]] I don't think the government should be surprised that we're against that system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e432	It's about time. The same thing is the cord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e437	Norway is the world’s best country to live in and is also among the countries of the world with the lowest income inequality. But "Oh, oh, oh, so happy" I had become about Norway also was the country of the world with the schools that lifted the students the most. But unfortunately, it's not like that. Although we are at the top of money, we still have a way to go. Next year, we will continue our efforts by being at the top of resource use. We should simply ‘make it swing, let it rock ‘n’ role’, but we should not lose ‘control’, because thanks to transparency about the results in schools, we can target resources, get the good professional and political debates on the tools and contribute to Norwegian school, yes, higher education and research, to the global summit. It must be our common ambition for children and young people and for a better society and a better future, and for the Right it is important that we have a society that provides opportunities for everyone. It could therefore have been tempting in a budget debate to list all the major bets that today's government parties also deliver in 2020, and all the other bets that we have been given in position over the years. Because there's really been a change of pace in the field of knowledge. But ‘happiness’ is not budget lines, that’s what you actually get for the whole education sector. Today, I want to focus in particular on the early years and initial training, because much has improved in Norwegian school since the Right came into government. The students are more present and more complete. At the same time, there are still major challenges, and the requirement for completion of education is reinforced in society. It's problematic that a lot of students don't get the basic skills they need to get on with their lives. The students' background still means a lot to the chances of success at school, and the variations between our municipalities and our schools are far too great. It's alarming. When, on our side, we focus so strongly on the quality and content of kindergartens, strengthen efforts early in childhood and carry out a teacher's vow of further education and master's education, it is precisely because it is in kindergarten and in school that a foundation is laid on which individuals can build, through learning for the rest of their lives. A good growth and a good school is really the key to everything. It must be the students' different talents and interests that determine which school you go to, where you live, or the size of your parents' wallet. The big effort on, for example, free core hours in kindergartens and targeted schemes for low-income families in the SFO are some of the economic activities we have that contribute to social cohesion. But the most important thing is that we now also deliver new curricula and implement the Knowledge Lift 2.0. We contribute a quarter of a billion to new learning materials and follow-up, and in particular we are also presenting 60 new measures in the recent Single European Act on early intervention and inclusion. This shall contribute to further measures that lift the school. For the Right’s most important initiatives, it is about what lifts the students and helps more children experience mastering and thus learning joy. We simply cannot settle for the fact that children do not have the necessary follow-up, support and security to master their everyday school life. In the opposition it seems that free school food and the SFO are the solution, schemes lubricating thinly to all rather than to those who need it the most, measures that are also not fully funded, despite tens of billions of increases in taxes, and which at the top of everything oblige municipalities in a spice layer, and which may once again bottle school budgets and thus important knowledge initiatives in the municipal sector. A school that can't follow all the students helps us reproduce social differences. Why do we not see an opposition that launches big bets in e.g.? Real science? In mathematics, the characterization of students with parents with higher education is 4.4, while for students with parents with no higher education it is 2.8. It tells us that today the school does not have enough power to compensate for social differences at home. The right will fight the discrepancy school because the fight against the discrepancy school is the fight for the knowledge school. It is the struggle for the equal opportunities of each child in life regardless of background. When we know that kindergarten, school and education are so important for social mobility and for living an independent and good life, yes, then I think it's strange that the parties that they think care most about equalizing social differences are hardly talking about quality and content in school. Education is the main single factor contributing to lasting cohesion. This is why we need to focus on knowledge, quality and content.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e461	One of the things that stands out most clearly after this reign in the kindergarten is that the price has always increased for ordinary families with children. Over the past six years, it is clear that ordinary families have to pay. More than 200,000 families have received an increase in the price of the nursery. This government has, over the course of its six years, increased the price of a nursery for a normal family of NOK 8 000. Nominal, there's $3,400 in 2020 bills. What is paradoxical is that this government has taken in more money at increased kindergarten prices than you have increased the total bet on kindergarten. If development continues like this, if you say so, a normal family in four years' time, if the government continues for another period, will pay almost $5,500 more for a nursery place. This is what the Workers' Party believes is not right. My question to the Right is simply: When is enough? [[The President clubs.]] [[The President clubs.]] What is the message to ordinary families? What is the maximum price for the right? How much is a normal family of children going to pay with the Right in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e466	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e471	There is no doubt that today's government has focused its efforts on quality and content. That is why we have had a significant investment in the child care sector. We have strengthened the standard of manning, we have strengthened the standard of education, we have been committed to the level of content and quality through continuing training, we have been followed by the rulers, and not least we have put in place a framework plan. We are now working with a child care law that will help create the necessary framework and follow-up and thus improve the quality of this sector. Clearly, we've focused our efforts. It's also made us room for, for example. to introduce free core time for all two-year-olds, three-year-olds, four-year-olds and five-year-olds, which has been an important social equalisation measure to help us get a society that includes all, and where everyone has the opportunity to be part of this baby-sitterlift.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e476	I thank you for the answer, but that is not what I asked for. I note that the government has no response to the 200,000 families who have paid more for kindergarten in the last six years than the government has increased the bet on kindergarten. Another concern in the kindergarten sector is for the small ideal kindergartens, which are now concerned because the government cuts in the funding of the standard of living. Yesterday we could read at Kindergarten.no that the private Buckyard Garden and Natural Childhood Garden has been visiting the Stortinget and met representatives of the government parties. The conclusion of the board of directors in the private nursery is that one obviously does not understand the funding system, and she says to Kinderhage.no that if they do not receive additional funds for the next year, they do not have the basis for further operations. So that's what the manager says for a private kindergarten. KS is concerned about underfinancing, PBL is concerned about underfinancing, while the government says everything is fine. Other principles apply to the financing of the standard of manning other than, for example: teachers’ standards or educational standards. My question to the Right Representative is: what is the concrete difference between financing teacher standards and teaching standards versus recruitment standards that make us get these outcomes? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e487	The President must ask the representatives to stick to the speaking time. The President is optimistic and knows that things will go well at the end, but speaking time has to be kept. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e492	There is no doubt that we have followed up the kindergarten reform and the funding in it, just as was the basis when we took over the Ministry of Knowledge, namely that the standard of manpower is fully funded. But I also know that there have been challenges in the problem of two-year lag, and that addressing has been important. Therefore, it has been easy for the bourgeois parties to reach agreement on a transitional arrangement. In an enquiry that came from the Landsförbund yesterday, I note that they estimate that by 2020 we will have an increase in transfers to the nursery sector of about 360 million. kr. This is a fine increase in relation to the level of 2019. It is somewhat lower than what might have been in the estimate from the Ministry of Knowledge in answer to a written question, but it is an increase, and I am looking forward to the transfer continuing to increase as the municipalities introduce the standard of manning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e499	The centre party is positive for the introduction of staffing and pedagogical norms in kindergartens, but for the second consecutive year the government does not cover the additional expenditure of municipalities for increased staffing. Highly underfunded requirements pose a risk of cuts in other welfare services in municipalities and potential reductions in the quality of kindergartens. The centre party is concerned that the underfinancing will lead to more purchases and closures. For next year, KS reports that there are 275 million missing. NOK only in the municipal kindergartens, and in 2022 it was dragged up to 700 million. kr for both private and public kindergartens. We fear that the private kindergartens must close the doors. Why will the Right impose on the municipalities and private kindergarten owners weakened the economy? And don't Right-wing care for the little kindergartens that ensure babysitting all around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e507	As I said in my previous answer: The funding of the staffing norm from today's government was based on exactly the same principle as when the Senter party was in government. In addition, we have just put in extra funds to deal with the problems of postponing and caring for small ideal kindergartens. I believe that we have had a quite useful arrangement. Of course, there will be some challenges, but I would like to remind you that when we dealt with the kindergarten law in Stortinget a few years ago, it was actually as much as 75 pst. of kindergartens that were already at the level of kindergarten. There is something to see what are the facts in this case. We have had a significant escalation in the sector. This is now seen in the fact that, estimated for 2020, increased transfers to the kindergarten sector are reported. So I think we're on the right track to meet this norm in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e514	‘Schoolemate is an important meal, and healthy food contributes to providing the basis for good physical and mental health.’ This is not what I or SV have said, but Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Bent Höie in a joint reading article. But school food requires something more than party speeches. It is true that the right often claims that many parents have the opportunity and wallet to give their children their health and good school food — but not all. Can the representative from the Right explain how fine celebrations from among others. Right Vice President, Höie, rhymes with the ridicule I clearly heard from us who are concerned with school food, in the post?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e521	First, I want to distance myself from making fun of you. The right parties and government parties are very concerned that our children should have a good, healthy and proper diet. So the question is, when we face a challenge in the school sector where we need to focus more on quality and content, and where I am ready for more people to complete and pass: how are we going to use the resources we have at our disposal? For the Right, it has been important to invest in the continuing training of teachers, to help implement a real-time apprenticeship, to make sure that those who want a place of learning get it by having an apprenticeship, and to ensure that all state enterprises also contribute. We have put in place a number of measures to give priority to the most important thing, which we know contributes most to social cohesion, namely that everyone gets a good education. Then I want to say that I think the most reasonable thing is that you lubricate food packages at home. I think that's even cheaper than having to pay a special fee for the school to organize school food.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e528	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e533	I want to start by thanking you for your cooperation in the committee. Overall, I think that the government's draft budget for 2020 is relatively tame. It bears the mark that there are four parties that have joined together, and that have given, taken and distributed. It's given a little bit here and there, but the big bets are missing. It is possible the government believes we should find inspiration from «Spirit in the Sky». The centre party wants greater ambitions for the future and for Norwegian school. We believe that to respond to the need we know there needs to be much greater state intervention in some areas. The introduction of new curricula, professional investment, the recruitment of qualified teachers and higher education across the country are the key forces we will take in the state budget for 2020. The centre party wants more people to succeed throughout the education process. Early efforts are necessary and agreed upon, but the concept must be filled with content and real action. At that time, more learning needs to be done in kindergartens, and security needs to be provided early in school. As we need practitioners and theorists in our working life, we need to capture and develop the practical and theoretical skills of students. We present our alternative state budget with an increased municipal framework for the financing of the staffing standard in kindergartens. Our criticism of the implementation of the six-year reform remains. Although trade renewal has a number of positive formulations on learning based on learning, the Centre Party is not satisfied with the government’s lack of evaluation of the six-year reform – as the Stortinget decided – and the follow-up to efforts against the youngest students. Although the government is concerned about its actions on the Ministry of Knowledge budget, the main content of the school is the municipal budget. It is whether the municipalities and the counties are able to meet the expectations of a good school, which is crucial for the quality of education where students live and go to school. Therefore, the Central Party proposes to increase the municipal economy by a total of 2.5 billion. kr for 2020. This is how the Centre Party will ensure more teachers, more health nurses and, in general, more room for action for municipalities. There is a need for investment in the team and equipment around the student. If we are to take care of the secondary school and the recruitment of qualified teachers throughout the country, the municipalities must have muscles and instruments that are needed. Our enormous ambitions for new curricula and greater teacher's density do little to help if local authorities and school owners don't have the finances to meet. This also means that municipalities have the means to finance increased staffing and temporary work when they are instructed to continue training by the teacher staff. The centre party gives the municipalities and the school leaders confidence and the opportunity to further develop School-Norway. With new curricula, it is very important that sufficient time and resources are put in place to prepare all the changes that need to be made. The establishment of a good professional community and the development of methodology adapted to professional renewal is necessary if the reform is to have an effect where it is intended to work: out in the individual classroom. The centre party is therefore surprised that the government has not used the means of competence to do this. Now that all the country's teachers are getting completely new subjects to teach, it requires something quite different from the government's unilateral continuing education at the price of $8 billion. kr in the last few years. The government's putting off 1.5 billion. kr for the further training of already skilled teachers due to the steep attitude towards new skills requirements, but does not set out one crown to prepare teachers for new curricula to operate from the autumn of 2020. The Centre Party will facilitate the development of all schools, so that teachers and colleges are prepared to apply new curricula and to the expectations of the innovation. That's why we're going to spend half a billion dollars giving teachers the opportunity for school-based skills development aimed at professional renewal. The challenges of recruiting teachers and keeping teachers in the profession will not be easier if the work that is done is not valued. Professionals also deserve a real boost. That's where the government's going to lift by $30 million. kr on bet, we'll raise even heavier. All in all, we're proposing a $300 million bet. kr. The Centre Party has been working for a number of years to improve the recognition of practical knowledge and competence by the school system. We have proposed a number of measures both to make initial training more practical, to improve the quality of vocational training, to remove obstacles in the system and to increase the motivation of students to choose a professional. The changes in working life make it necessary to assess whether vocational training is currently in line with the skills required by the labour market, and we are pleased to present our investigation to the Song Committee. There is still a high level of non-retirement in secondary education and the highest rate of non-retirement in the vocational education and training programmes. It is a problem that today the school does not take responsibility for the students when they go out of school. By means of the exchange model and other measures, schools need to be more closely followed up to vocational letters. By maintaining the pupils/teachers as part of the school environment at the time of transition to apprenticeship, the pupils will maintain contact with fellow students, teachers and the school support system. The proposal to increase funds for county municipalities will provide room for closer follow-up work and dissemination of apprentices at individual schools. In addition, we are proposing increased means of hospitating professionals, so that they can get their knowledge up-to-date and get closer contact with local and regional businesses. This will help to increase the number of apprenticeships, which in turn increases the chances of students actually completing the vocational training they have started. In addition, little is as debilitating as when the equipment in school is not the same as the students in the company, and there is a serious problem when the equipment tips are not close to what it costs to update the equipment. In addition, we believe that production schools are an important alternative for students who are motivated by practical tasks. The economy of people living away must also be taken seriously. It's tough enough to move away from everything that's known, with new responsibilities. In addition, most students get an economy that doesn't go far. For example, during the budget consultation, the student organisation could: tell me about a student where the equipment scholarship was far from covering what it costs to become a skilled worker, where a student on the electrician had to punch out approx. NOK 10000 for equipment, while the scholarship is of one quarter. Combined with this, the student was away residents and was forced to take an extra job to have something to live on. And in all of this, we're wondering why more students are falling off. I guess 30 pst. of those over 16 years of age having university and higher education, it is only 1.4 pst. at the same age as completion of post-secondary education. This is not due to low applicant numbers or to the needs of the labour market. On the contrary, in some industries there is a lack of relevant vocational school provision compared to the demand in the labour market. Vocational education is required both in the industry and in the public sector. The figures from the 2019 NHO competence survey showed that 52 pst. of the member companies need more vocational education. The government itself has stated that in the coming years there should be the greatest growth in vocational education and higher education than in the higher education sector. Nevertheless, the number of places of study in vocational schools has increased much less than the number of places of study in other higher education in recent years. The government's budget proposal for 2020 adds to the notices of 100 new post-secondary education places, although there is a excruciating need for long, much more. The centre party proposes 500 new places of study at the colleges, as part of a major escalation. In addition, we are proposing an increase in development funds for the vocational schools in order to ensure the necessary quality development of the supply in line with the labour market's need for skills. Current funding for vocational education is not enough to cover the cost of providing these courses. Vocational education is the only public education not covered by the free principle. Students who attend municipal vocational schools pay on average 24 500 kroner in school money. The centre party therefore proposes increasing basic funding for the vocational schools as well as increasing the framework of the county municipalities. If we all agree that vocational schools are important, why are vocational schools the only public education where school money is required? For higher education, both the technical and higher education sectors are important. We need more places to study, including: medical and ICT candidates, including: to ensure cybersecurity. Furthermore, we must invest in lifelong learning with both formal and informal training. Education is essential to take Norway further. Access to education near you should be a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e570	One of the major challenges in School Norway is that there are too many quality differences between schools. The center party will report us out of PISA, they're against national tests, screening tests, yes, really, everything that gives us the knowledge we need to ensure that all children are followed up equally and in a good way. The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has justified the desire to turn off the light in School-Norway that the different samples individually do not give a complete picture. But no one claims to do so. It's the overall knowledge these tests provide, along with research projects and other follow-up, that tells us what actions we should take to give the students the school they deserve. Can the representative Knutsdatter Strand tell me how the Center Party will secure an overall picture of the state of the school, and how the Center Party will ensure that all children receive an equally good school, regardless of which school they attend, regardless of how each school works with learning and well-being in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e579	I appreciate the question, because it is clear that we need to ensure quality in the schools around the country. It is one of the values in Norway that we can live and operate in both large and small municipalities and in small and large agglomerations. The representative, Kristensen, assumes that the Center Party will turn off the light, but we believe, on the other hand, that it is the government that shoots in the blind and bombs on the blinks when they are to steer for clever tests like PISA, which do not give a complete picture. In fact, one of the findings in PISA is that differences in Norway are smaller than in other, comparable OECD countries. So I think that this concern that there are so many quality differences in Norway, we can put the whole thing aside. We already have a lot of documentation that gives us a lot of good information about the school, including. How boys and girls have different ways of learning, that we need to create security, and that there actually has to be early efforts for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e586	I record that the representative Knutsdatter Strand spoke warmly about the need for a professional lift. It's easy to call in opposition, but if you want credibility, you also have to deliver in position. That's what the Progress Party does, it didn't do the Center Party. What I wanted to do in line was PISA. It is one of Europe's largest research projects. There are 65 countries participating. In Norway, 4,000–5000 students are picked out every three years to take a small test. So it's not a big time thief. I say it is rather like a lamppost: it is good to rely on, but it only illuminates a limited area. It's useful to collect information that gives us an overview. Now we got e.g. see that the reading skills of boys are declining, that screen usage is increasing, and that the reading light drops. It is interesting to see how we relate to other countries with high or low immigration. Why isn't the Center Party interested in getting that information?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e595	The center party is definitely not against getting knowledge of the content of the school, but we believe there are a number of other ways to do it than through clever tests like PISA. Even the Minister of Knowledge admits that it does not give a complete picture. Then it's important that we take the notions that the teachers feel that there's too much testing and pressure in the school. There's too little time to prioritize the students and the follow-up they want to have in the center. Students also report that tests and pressures have a negative impact on them in everyday life. We now see that in the government's investigation for school start-ups, it's actually creating safe students and secure relationships that some of the most important school can invest in and spend time on. We want to take this seriously and set aside time and resources – trust in the teacher, trust in the student, over time on sloppy tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e602	Norway participates in many important research programmes through the EEA. The EEA Agreement also provides Norwegian students with the opportunity to take education throughout Europe. EEA funds and legislation also contribute to the development and attractiveness of our research communities. Research is international, and often we get more when we can work together on common solutions to common challenges across borders. International research cooperation is also important in supporting peace and democracy. The Centre Party's alternative budget is the U.D. that they wish to ‘phase out the EEA financial instruments and establish them in line with Norwegian interests’. It could mean a little liberal bill, to put it mildly. In this regard, I wonder what the Centre Party really thinks about the EEA schemes that Norway enjoys in particular. Is it the case that they would ideally suspend Norwegian participation in Framework Programmes such as Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+, or is it such that the lack of explicit cut-offs in those schemes that also the Centre Party believes the EEA has positive effects on Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e610	I am very much in agreement with Left's reasoning here, that international cooperation is extremely important. We definitely see the value of it and are also pleased in these brexit times that the Council of State has been involved in taking the initiative to ensure that cooperation between the United Kingdom and Norway is actually maintained independently of the future and their relationship with the EU. They're actually one of our most important partners and trading partners. In addition, I believe it will be limiting the picture if it is the EEA and the EU that are the area we want to cooperate with. The centre party sees benefits in cooperating with the United States, Australia or other parts of the world where we can gain inspiration and professional cooperation. When it comes to Horizon 2020, it will now be renewed. Some of us were so lucky that we were allowed to travel to Brussels to hear more about this. It's clear that it's important to do the good cooperation that is, but we can't do it at all costs. In fact, we also need to assess what Norway is going to get, diet–benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e619	The Central Party commends the Council of State in its budgetary position well for the new curriculum to provide the student with an understanding of themes and issues across the disciplines and fields of knowledge. At the same time, the party expresses itself critically that the implementation lacks sufficient funding. I have a great deal of understanding that the introduction of a new curriculum costs. That is why a quarter of a billion are in the budget next year for that purpose. There could certainly have been a need for even more. Then it becomes a little strange that in its proposal, the Centre proposes a significant cut in the budgets of both the Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education, Udirs, for next year — important bodies for precisely introducing the curriculum. How is it possible to criticise the government for lack of funds and then even propose a cut? Or, if the Central Party cut wasn't meant to hit the trade renewal, could we get an explanation of what activities are now to be taken away through the cuts proposed by the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e626	It is a deliberate priority on the part of the Central Party that we would rather allocate funds to people in the first line rather than to bureaucrats sitting in the office. It's perfectly clear that we believe it's the teachers in the classrooms who actually have to take the biggest job of introducing this in August 2020. In fact, it is those who are going to be teaching on topics with completely new skills goals, a completely new device, completely new multidisciplinary themes. I really think it is a pity that the Christian People's Party does not see the need of the individual teacher in the individual classroom. The party itself has been a strong champion of a teacher's norm, and the Center Party believes that teacher's density is actually one of the most important things for good learning in the classroom. But then you also have to recognise what those teachers have time and competence and the ability to operate with, among other things. for the introduction of new curricula. It is absolutely essential for success to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e631	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e636	«I have never ceased to believe» in a society with equal opportunities for all. Equal rights to education is one of the pillars of creating this society. What I can't understand is that someone will provide the richest short-term tax cuts instead of long-term investment in education, research and growth – for the many and not for the few. It's already starting in the kindergarten. Some adults with good pediatric competence are key to good pediatric facilities — a nursery where everyone is seen and each receives care and encouragement. If we are to achieve this around all Norwegian kindergartens throughout the country, the national staffing standards in the kindergarten must be fully financed. And if there were «only you and I», I wanted to tell you about SV’s vision, that all children should have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, regardless of the income of their parents. Unfortunately, the government's needs test is very poor, and nothing indicates that those who need it most are being helped by government policies. In addition, a minimum of 50 pst. by day-care centre staff, have kindergarten teacher training and a minimum of 25 pst. have the relevant professional letter. Over many years I have been so lucky to hear the silent sum of children who learn, succeed and thrive in Norwegian classrooms. This has made my political commitment to a more practical and active learning, to play, to physical activity and to deep learning into a great and «living hurricane» – for the whole day's school, which is a school day better adapted to people's lives today. ‘Nothing can stop me’ from fighting for school food and helping students learn lessons from their teacher. And if there was «just you and me», I wanted to tell you about a full-day school reform for learning, social cohesion and public health, and about the new school day, which also provides a better family day. ‘It is time’ for the Minister to take responsibility for the teaching norm. Qualified teachers are a prerequisite for success with SV's vision that all children should learn, succeed and thrive in Norwegian classrooms. The teacher is the most important single factor in school learning. We need a national effort on more teachers in school, but under this government, the proportion of unskilled teachers in primary school has increased by 40 pst, which means that children and young people are taught in 1.5 million school hours by people who are not educated. I've heard that the Education Association even operates with even higher numbers. This must be discouraging for the right party of government. While SV grants money to recruit and keep more teachers, and enough teachers with special pedagogical skills, it feels as if government parties are just sitting quietly in the boat hoping that the hurricane will pass. The dropout in high school is another concern. The highest rates of non-compliance are in the professional and male sectors. ‘Nothing can prevent me’ from fighting for measures that will increase the level of professional implementation. And if there were «just you and I», I wanted to talk about more teachers in high school – yes, a new teacher standard in high school and the importance of school health sisters and equipment packages for high school. So I'm "caught by a storm wind" of commitment to Norwegian school. Norwegian teachers, students and parents deserve nothing less.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e653	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e658	In the SV budget, one of the main initiatives is one extra hour of practical-esthetic subjects. Extending the school day by one hour for all primary school levels will cost the fine sum of 11.5 billion. kr per year. SV has set at 100 million. kr for this measure. Simple headcount tells us that then only 25 out of 2,830 primary schools will be funded. And then it's going to be 50 million. For physical activity at school, which will give a total of 29 schools one extra hour in a school day. What about the rest? It seems to me that this is a budget for the few, and not for the many. My question to the representative of Fagerås is therefore: how many hours of practical-esthetic subjects and physical activity in the week is it really in this draft budget, and which schools and class steps are to be met?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e665	Unlike the Right, we actually invest money, and we spend money and we want to bet on these subjects, because we think it's important for students to have offers beyond just the theoretical. Research shows that teaching has become far too theoretical, and that is precisely what these subjects need to be put into. And what does the future need? What do we need when we're replacing the oil society? Well, we need creative students. That's why we're betting, and we're starting with a raise for the practical-esthetic subjects. I guess we've talked about maybe starting with one hour at one school step, but this is a step up, and that's not how the Right has gotten to everything that was their goal in the first year of their government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e670	No, the right is also betting on these subjects, as the representative Fagerås knows, but one of the big goals of SV is to introduce all-day school in Norway, and it is set at just 330 million. kr. It's $16 000 for each school and $519 for each student. When SV will introduce 22 billion. kr in increased tax, it is only smulter SV uses on its main promise, which does not provide many hours of culture, song and physical activity. Does the representative have an overview of the number of all-day schools with SV's large stakes in this year's budget, and how many billion SV have to increase taxes in the future? And where is it to be taken from when Norway's main industry is down and business is broken down by the increased tax burden? For most people, don't you want to label the tax-press?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e677	It is a little strange to be accused of leaving the municipalities responsible for the training in Norwegian school when we are told from the Right that this is up to the municipalities to fix on a case-by-case basis. That's what the right-hand side gives, for example. in the case of the manning norm. We have heard earlier today about the major challenges that kindergartens have in introducing a recruitment norm, which the Right introduces without financing it. So then this becomes a little bit weird. So we're going to cancel out, as the representative himself says, 330 million. kr to a full-time school reform. That's 330 million. kr more than what the Right gives to a full-time school and to these important subjects, which will mean a great deal for the future of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e684	During the budget debate last year, I criticized the Workers' Party and SV for going out and criticising the increase in the maximum price in kindergartens, but without entering it into their alternative budgets. They're criticizing it as if they're back at the 2013 level. The Labour Party has taken over the criticism from last year and made changes to its alternative budget, but I record that although SV has a significantly larger increase in taxes and taxes, they are unable to find the same money as the Workers' Party. So I just wonder how SV feels now that the Workers' Party has become the preferred party for voters on the left when it comes to kindergarten policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e690	There's a lot we have to do for kindergartens. Among other things, one of the most important reforms for SV is to ensure that we get quality in terms of employees in kindergartens. That's why the goal for us is 50 pst. pedagogues of pedagogues shall be provided by pedagogues. It is true that both the Progress Party and SV have great promises regarding the maximum price, but the Progress Party has run in government, I do not think the representative should stand here and be particularly proud of. Then I am absolutely sure that on the day SV joins the government with the Workers' Party, we will agree to ensure that the maximum price in the kindergartens goes down much more than the Progress Party has in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e699	In the budget setting, SV shows that many universities and colleges experience less predictability in terms of funding. At the same time, SV proposes a cut of 326 million. kr to Christian private colleges, without any further justification. It appears that an arbitrary cut is being made, contrary to adopted guidelines on public aid to private universities, and also contrary to the draft budgets supported by the Government of the Party. My question is: is it that the private colleges for ideal purposes SV will live, because one wants the public to be exclusive in the field, or is it a resistance to everything that has a purpose in life where the Christian values are the starting point for higher education, which is the rationale?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e706	It's obvious that there are some colleges that have a rich uncle in government. Because while everyone else in the higher education sector has experienced cutbacks on cutbacks for six years in a row – we're talking about 1.3 billion. kr i cut for the rest of the sector – so these six colleges have lived the master's happy days with the Christian People's Party as a partner and now in government. The Christian People's Party shall not dare to come crying to me for these six colleges, all the time they did not lift a finger to help when a whole municipality in Northern Ireland, my home country, was in fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e711	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e716	Today, we are going to adopt something of the utmost importance to ensure our young people the freedom and opportunities they deserve in the future, namely the knowledge budget. The left has long had school as a main field of action, because no matter what the question is, the answer is knowledge. Finished schooling is also the most important thing to ensure our young people social mobility – the ability to create a better and freer life, regardless of background. Knowledge and competence constitute an important basis for democracy, for value creation and for quality of life. Good kindergartens, a good school and access to education contribute to empowering each individual person. And even though we have challenges in the school sector – there are still too many students who do not benefit from the education, we still need to recruit more people both for teacher training and for the school sector, we still need to get the boys to read more and better – ‘I am an optimist’. «I know it's going well at last», especially as long as the Left is heavily represented in KD. The left has contributed to the formulation of a 2020 budget that responds to some of the main challenges in the education sector: we will smooth out the differences in quality in schools and facilitate the viewing and raising of each individual student. That is why we continue to invest in the continuing training of teachers and in the teacher-specialist system. Because we know that the teacher is one of the most crucial factors in ensuring children's learning and well-being. High levels of competence at all levels of school are important. That's why the Left has focused on recruiting more people for the teaching profession and on raising the status and competence. Our goal is that all students should have qualified teachers in every subject, every single day. For this reason, we have ensured that teacher training has become five years old and that more stringent requirements are imposed on those applying for teacher training. Together with the other government parties, we also make a historic promise of continuing education for all teachers, so that everyone in the classrooms has the skills they need by 2025. And the bet gives results. Now more than 34 000 teachers have been offered further training since 2014. We're going to keep going in 2020, and the teachers are going to say it works. For the left, it's also important that we keep the good teachers in school. The classroom must be a developing and interesting place of work, the entire career. That is why we have opened up more career paths and opportunities for teachers to specialize. One of these arrangements is the teacher-specialist scheme. A teacher specialist shall receive further training and be professionally up-to-date in his/her field of research and teaching in addition to using his/her competence to contribute to the development of the entire school. This is how you promise each teacher and give each teacher a more meaningful everyday life, but at the same time we develop strong professional environments and increase the quality of the school. Now we're also focusing a clear effort on initial training to strengthen early efforts and the training of basic skills such as reading, writing and mathematics. This is something the government has set at 200 million. until next year, so that all schools will have access to a specialist. So this is going to upset the Workers' Party and the Center's Party by cutting the majority or half of the funding. While the government parties are working with what we know works, namely several teachers with good skills, the opposition is focusing on actions that no one needs, but that all are going to get, for example. free school food. The left and the other government parts will also spend 250 million. for teaching materials in the context of trade renewal in 2020. This is one of the biggest changes in Norwegian school, it is at least the largest since the Knowledge Lift, and all the subjects are getting new curricula with the aim of preparing the students as best they can for the future. Changes in society take place quickly. Therefore, it must be a primary goal for the school to enable each student to take an active part in a society and in a working life that is constantly changing and needs new. It facilitates the innovation of the trade. Therefore, it is also extraordinarily strange that the Workers' Party and the Centre want major reductions in the appropriations of the Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education, two important resources in the implementation of the curricula. If it's one year it's critical, it's just next year. We will ensure all access to the important common arenas that equip the children for school and that support them during learning and well-being, by including more through targeted schemes that work. From next year, SFO will be cheaper for the 1st and 2nd grades that have the least, and free for older students who have special needs. This is the first time some people are taking charge of SFOs nationally. At the same time, of course, the system of free core time in kindergarten continues for children from families with poor advice, from the age of two. Not least, the children who need it most, namely small children on reception, also have access to free kindergarten. For the Left, education policy is about seeing individuals and ensuring that everyone has the freedom to take education and participate in society, regardless of who their parents are, what they serve, or where they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e744	The representative Melby was pleased with all the major challenges left in the government to make promises. I want to address something that the Left in Government has not managed to solve, and that is a major challenge, namely student housing. It is among the most important measures for the economy and well-being of students, but despite large unmet needs, the government’s target for student housing is too low, and it has not increased in the last two years. The housing structure neither follows the demand nor the decision of the Storting. The Labour Party lacks an active follow-up from the Council of State to ensure that the dwellings adopted are built. Last year, as you know, a good part of the money was withdrawn by the government. We know that student relationships are ongoing, but they stress that very many demands make it difficult to realize the housing projects. There have now been new and well-founded climate demands. Then I would like to hear: what will the Left do to ensure that these requirements do not slow down new housing projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e751	Thank you for the question. The construction of student housing has been a high priority of the Left for many years – and of the Government. It has also been the clearest requirement of the students that we bet on building student housing, and that we introduce eleven months of student support. The government has given priority to both parts and delivered them. There has never been as much money allocated to student housing as under the current government. The challenge has been, as the representative also points out, to actually realize all of these buildings for which we grant grants. The grips taken by the government include: have been able to raise the cost of housing, which should make it easier to realize more dwellings in the years to come. I believe that we need to address this area. It has probably taken some time for the communication to change to such a high rate of development that this government, unlike the previous one, has set itself up. I think we have to look at all the means we can use to ensure that we actually realize the buildings for which the government has given the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e758	I want to continue with student housing, because the number of students in the queue at the country's student relationships is still too high. In this draft budget, the Central Party will follow up the 20 p.m. target. coverage by increasing the number of housing units in 2020 by 500 in addition to the government’s proposals. At the same time, we see that the government's arrangement on the grant is unable to capture enormous needs for rehabilitation, while at the same time there are constraints on the cost framework. Does the representative, Mr Melby, think that the work on tackling the problems of financing is going fast enough? Or does she agree with the student's criticism – that student housing needs to be prioritised even higher, and that construction measures need to be taken even more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e763	I would like to see that we had managed to speed up the pace even more in the construction of these student homes. I believe that the government has done the job to this extent, as money has been spent on grants for student housing. The challenge of not realizing this grant is quite complex. These include: on the ability of municipalities to regulate quickly enough. It's about the ability of communication to turn around and actually realize the homes we need. And then it is also a fact that where the need is often greater – not always, but often – is in press areas, where there can also be very expensive plot prices. Local authorities may also help to ensure that communications are made more accessible. I think this is an area where we need to think a little bit new, and where we need to look at new measures that can help us realize even more student homes. For example, it is to ensure it as a separate regulatory purpose that the Left has worked with, and I hope that the government will still have a high pressure on this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e770	The left often boasts that they have done a great deal for all children to go to kindergarten, and they claim that they share the SV's vision that all children should have the opportunity to go to kindergarten regardless of their parents' income. Unfortunately, the Left's solution works very poorly. The test has been shown not to work. Number I've seen, shows that only 16 pst. of those entitled to reduced parental payment, it is provided. Is the representative satisfied with the arrangement? Does this not show that the left hand side might have to think about when it comes to needs testing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e782	First, I would like to say that I have great respect for the job that SV did in the early 2000s with the baby hail lift – ensuring that everyone actually got a statutory right. The massive expansion of both municipalities and private developers has been one of the biggest welfare reforms, and it is to be highly honoured by SV. But another thing that SV then did was to give a very high priority to putting down the price for absolutely everyone. I think that was right at that point, because there were very high prices in many places. Now it's like most people pay around NOK 3000 for a nursery place, which is a relatively reasonable price. At the same time, we have seen that that price was a threshold for many with low income. Then we would rather have a system where we removed that threshold for the low income families, instead of spending many billions on cutting the price even a little bit more for all of us who can afford it. I don't quite understand where the representative has the numbers. The numbers I have say that over 26,000 kids use the free core time system, and we have a lot of research reports that say this works. This makes more immigrant children go to kindergarten. It also makes them learn more when they start school, and that they get better Norwegian knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e794	The Christian People's Party will build society on the basis of the values laid down in our Christian and humanist cultural heritage. This basis is based on the infinite value of each human being, on our collective and personal responsibility for each other, and on the desire to take care of the environment and the basis of life for future generations. The best investment we can then make is investing in children's knowledge and growth. The nursery shall be a safe and good place for young children to be – a place where the child develops through play, interaction and creative development. Yes, there should be a little "voi, voi" in the nursery. The most important thing for the quality of childcare services is that there are enough adults in kindergarten and the right skills. That is why in the Christian People's Party we are satisfied with our impact on the standard of living and increased pedagogical density in the kindergarten. Kindergartens represent diversity, both within the nursery and in the form and structure of ownership. We pride ourselves on diversity and have expectations of the government's further efforts to ensure the sustainability of the ideal kindergartens and the individual kindergartens for the future. When the school age was lowered from seven to six years, our children were promised a day-to-day game as a learning method. The transition to the school bench should be done as well as possible, with small student groups and good teaching resources. Yes, the pedagogic was to pick up the best from kindergarten and school. It was also the background to the Christian People's Party's initiative to get an evaluation of the six-year reform. The acquisition of knowledge of six-year-olds in school that the Ministry of Knowledge has now done has clearly resulted in the conversion of initial training with more emphasis on playing as a learning method, as the new curriculum now provides. That's how we ensure the school as an arena that recognizes the differences in maturity, interests and abilities. This will be a school that takes the six-year-olds seriously. The Christian People's Party also expects that the last part of the report commissioned by the Stortinget on the evaluation of the six-year reform, which will come later, can contribute further with new knowledge. A teacher must have time to see and support each individual student. Higher teacher density provides more time for each student and better opportunities for adapted training to provide all the assistance and follow-up they need. That is why the Christian People's Party has consistently prioritised several teachers over several years and is pleased with the adoption of a national teaching norm, which the entire government is behind. High teacher density must start from 1st class so that an early learner can provide additional help where needed. The Early Response Communication Tightly takes the whole school cycle seriously in a new way and provides good solutions to key improvements through action closer to the individual student. With this message next to a historical commitment to a statutory standard of teachers, the government now ensures that all students have equal access to the school's most important resource, namely the teacher. This creates schools that take care of the whole human being. As an important complement to public schools, we find fresh schools that, with alternative pedagogy or a life-vision basis, enrich education opportunities in Norway with a greater diversity. Free schools give parents the right to choose training for their children in line with their own beliefs. This is an important democratic principle and gives primary schools a self-esteem that needs to be safeguarded. With its contribution to Norwegian education, we see that innovation, diversity and quality are well maintained. The government is now implementing a major school reform when we start implementing a longer-term plan of action and a full revision of curricula. As we in the Christian People's Party look at it, the school has a dual social mission: it's going to form and educate. The value base of the training as, inter alia: is about respect for people and nature, and the value of diversity and equivalency is now more evident in all subjects. Good improvements have been made from the recommendations of the Scientific Committees, not least in the KRLE subject. This shows good craftsmanship by a government council that is able to take the principles of in-depth learning seriously, reduce the number of skills objectives and allow the school’s value base to shape all the school’s subjects. The next year's government budget also provides fresh funding for the implementation of the new curricula, and we are pleased to have secured the free schools that will provide balanced curricula with the public, less funding for their necessary work on new and revised curricula. ‘Adjø’. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e815	And if there is any doubt, the President would suggest that 'voi, voi' in this context is a parliamentary expression. It will then be opened for a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e822	The government will now prohibit the states from organising the school structure and admission to higher education as they think is best, through so-called free school choice. That is, of course, the Christian People's Party. The reason why the Christian People's Party is really against it is perhaps that it is a far-off proposal. Because when the government proposes two models, either free school choice throughout the county or free school choice in so-called input regions, it means that all states must then have two equal educational programmes in each region of intake, e.g. two cooking lines or two natural disciplines. It's totally unrealistic to do in many states, for example. in Troms or in Nordland. It is not realistic to achieve, among other things. This is because they do not want to be able to afford it, especially when the government cuts in the budgets. My question to the Christian People's Party's representative is simply whether the Christian People's Party has participated in government assessments and seen assessments of whether the government's two models can be realistically implemented in all the states of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e829	Our starting point for the proposal that is now being consulted has been that one should guarantee students the right to choose a school, while at the same time taking care of a decentralised school structure. The choice of choice is, of course, a value in itself, which must constantly be balanced against the need of a school owner in order to maintain a decentralised school structure. We know that secondary schools are important centres of excellence where they are located. Therefore, one must also ensure that one can take care of the structure you have today, in order to be able to offer good offers to all students. The countries have also been given responsibility for the build-up of competences in the new regional reform, so there are several considerations that need to be assessed against each other. Now the proposals that have been put forward are being consulted. Then we'll listen to the hearing results that come in, before a final decision on what this model is going to look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e836	If you're going to be completely accurate, the term shouldn't be free school choice, but grade-based admission, because it's the grades that determine where the students get space. Some people get space where they want, while many have to travel maybe for hours to get space on the line they want to go on. It's a threat to the district schools, and it's going to be an unfree choice of school for a lot of students. That's what happens when you force all the counties to follow the same model. The representative of the Count knows the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party better than I do. This is the type of override that those batches strongly dislike in other contexts. And I'm pretty sure that if Kristin Halvorsen, as a knowledge minister in a red-green government, had ordered all states to follow the same model of intake, that is, to forbid them from being able to organize it as they would, the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party would go into fistula. It is also a very poor follow-up to regional reform, where the argument was increased local democracy. Does the Christian People's Party believe that this state coercion for all the states is a wise follow-up to the regional reform, which had as one of the main arguments to ensure increased local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e843	It is quite right, as Henriksen says, that some of the points of regional reform were to strengthen local democracy, and therefore the county councils have been given responsibility for the building of competences in the new regions. We believe that when we go through the results of the consultation and look at the views expressed on the two models, it will be possible to create a model that will ensure that students have the opportunity to make their choices on the freest possible basis and that will also ensure a decentralised school structure. We clearly see the need and importance of having a structure that allows all the states to have secondary schools, to be able to offer them to the students who live nearby. This needs to be balanced against each other, and then we will conclude when we have reviewed the results of the consultation and look at the views and how best to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e850	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have been united in several important issues, including: in the work of local elected government. The county councils will have a zero settlement for 2020. In parallel with an alleged commitment to new tasks, vocational skills and new curricula in secondary school, we are therefore at risk of a massive reduction in the provision of line and school services – contrary to the will of state policy. In addition, if economic constraints are not sufficient, the government's requirement for a character-based admission – which, unlike the representative of Gruvan, was actually claimed to be in educational news.no two days ago by the State Secretary in the department. Why now does the Christian People's Party accept to impose on all a forced street with a character-based admission to high school, and how does the Christian People's Party think that the school should take care of the students who are struggling, when they are now being pushed away from their secondary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e857	As I have already said in two answers, it is not finally concluded in terms of what this model should look like. As I said, for the Christian People's Party, it is important to strike a balance between a decentralised school structure and the ability to provide the student with the most free choice possible. Then we also see the danger in that if there is a completely free choice for the student, this can be free for someone and not for everyone, as well as that this can also be a threat to schools that are located in the districts and have a limited basis for admission. But as I said, choosing yourself, as free as possible for each student, is also an important value. So here we have to try to balance different concerns with each other in order to achieve a solution that can benefit both the student and also take care of the region – which is responsible for competence in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e865	What the Christian People's Party now seems to go in for is character-based recording, and it's not free. There is a right of way for some, for those who are born on the sun’s side – not for those who are born with stone in their shoes. It will also force young people to see each other even more as competitors — not as fellow students and fellow citizens. It says a little bit about the human vision of such a system. If it's to be free from everyone, then it has to be free from everyone – and that's none of the systems we've been talking about. Overmanagement and coercion of the worst variety, says Vice President Ingelin Norese in the Christian People's Party. In addition, it does not work in the districts, as has been the case with others. What is certain is that those who labor will lose. Does the Christian People's Party realize that such a system will make it more difficult to choose for those students who are struggling, and do you think that several of them will carry out if they have to go into schemes they do not want?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e872	I think it's very important, as Andersen's representative suggests, and necessary to get to both a school structure and a school that can take care of all the students in the best possible way, no matter what prerequisites they have. The scheme that is now being consulted on the type of model to be chosen aims to balance a decentralised school structure with a greater choice for students. Today, this is very different from the state to the state. Some have already practiced free schooling, others have one structure in the first year and another structure — perhaps — in the last two years. We think it's important, no matter what model you choose, that you get a school that can take care of everyone, and that can give you an organized setup, and not make a school where you produce losers. It is the Christian People's Party's policy, and it is also the government's policy. We'll try to make sure that no matter what model you choose here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e879	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e884	The government's objective is to create a sustainable welfare society. The main contribution we can make is a good kindergarten and school that prepares children and young people for work but also helps to develop safe and active citizens of society. A good start lasts life out. The main basis for mastering and learning is laid in kindergarten. This is why the government continues to work to improve the quality and competence of kindergartens. We want a diverse kindergarten sector, and we want to make it possible for all children to go to kindergarten. We continue to reduce parental pay, free core time for children between two and five years of age from low-income families, and we ensure that two- and three-year-olds in reception receive full-time work in kindergarten. In school, we see that a lot goes in the right direction. The students learn more. They are more present, and more complete and exist. In the student survey we see that students report that the bullying goes down. It's important. Safe students who thrive learn better. But there are still challenges. Many students experience that small problems get bigger. Competence is not tight enough for children and young people who are struggling. Those with the greatest challenges often meet unskilled assistants rather than adults with relevant competences. This is why we have put forward 60 measures in the Single European Act – early and inclusive communities. We're going to move the competence from meeting rooms to sandboxes and classrooms. We will carry out a large and lasting level of competence in order to ensure more specialised pedagogical competence in kindergarten and school. We are already taking the first steps in the 2020 budget. In November I presented the new curricula, the Knowledge Lift 2.0. This is the biggest change in Norwegian school since 2006. We are now renewing the content of the school. We're doing a valuelift, and we're helping more students learn more by learning better. New curricula also require new learning resources. That's why we've done 250 million. kr for 2020. Another main challenge is that a large group of students leave primary school without being able to read, write and calculate properly. It increases the risk of dropping out of high school, and the path to leave may be short. On Tuesday, we saw that the latest PISA study shows that the proportion of students with poor reading skills has increased from 2015 to 2018. That's why it's a top priority for the Right and the Government to ensure that everyone learns the basic skills. Reading, writing and calculating are fundamental to other learning. The new curricula are a good response to the challenges we see in the PISA study. We have also had an obligation for schools to provide students who are going to attend intensive reading, writing and billing training, and we need to ensure that all schools have access to teacher specialists in initial training. We know that the teacher's competence means a lot. That is why we have introduced skills requirements, we continue to invest in continuing education and training, and we have introduced a teaching standard that provides more teachers. What is the left-hand side's answer? Well, together, we see that the left-hand side. says no to school knowledge by cutting national tests and PISA reduces the requirements for teachers by removing competence requirements Cutters in continuing training in the fields of nuclear sciences Norwegian, English and mathematics cutter teacher-specialist scheme removes the obligation to provide intensive training to students who are dependent on reading, writing and billing; This makes it clear that there is a difference between the government and the left-hand side of school policy. Where we give priority to initial training and basic skills, we see that the left-hand side prioritises everything else. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party proposes to cut 200 million. kr from continuing training in the priority subjects of Norwegian, English and mathematics. With this proposal, 850 fewer new teachers will be immersed in Norwegian, math and English this year. Norway has the best starting point for creating an education system where everyone masters, teaches and thrives. We're going to catch up with the students who think the school is a little bit difficult, and give them the help they need. We need to invest more in knowledge, because it gives people opportunities and businesses the skills they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e933	The Council of State's story of the Labour Party's budget we can come back to, because I want to deal with a more important matter with the Council of State now. Yesterday there was a verdict in Borgarting Lawyers' Court, the case to teacher Clemens Saers. The teacher, who was attacked by a student, lost his cause yesterday – the fight he has waged against the school owner and the headmaster’s responsibility in that sort of thing. I've challenged the Council of State on this earlier, and I don't think we're going to go into the case alone, but with the background of the verdict that's now coming, I think there's going to be some worrying discussions about teaching rooms around the country today. The point is, to a large extent, how the school owner and the headmaster should take responsibility for the lives and health of teachers in the classroom. In the last round we had in Stortinget, the council stressed that yes, they have a responsibility. But in the light of this verdict that has come, does the Council also see a need to do something about legislation and legislation in order to emphasize this to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e940	This is an important question because we're totally dependent on the teachers, like the students, being safe at school. It is important for me to stress that it is the principal responsibility of the school owner for his employees. But as I have also answered a previous question, we are now going through both legislation and the need for better guidance. It's not a work that's done in a week or two, but it's work that we've started up, where it's natural to listen to them, of course. This applies to both school owners and teacher organisations. So this is an important question that we're going to follow on up. Teachers should be safe at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e945	I'm glad we agree on that – that the teachers should be safe at work, just like the students. There was full support in Stortinget for the change in the training law § 9 a when it was done, but I believe this judgment shows that there have been some unintended consequences of that change in the law. In the past, the Council of State has said that he hopes that the sample to look at changes in the Training Act will also take action and look at this, and that is good, but there is also a process that will take time. One of the things I see in my mind that should be possible to do right away is, within the current legislation, to guarantee teachers the right to object in matters relating to Section 9(a). It would be an important step in the right direction to ensure the legal certainty of teachers in the current cases. Would the Council of State be willing to look at that kind of change in practice to ensure legal certainty for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e950	As I have announced, we look at all sides. Therefore, it won't be natural for me now to go into individual elements of the review we have. But there are more tracks here. One is about guidance. For some of the evaluations that have been carried out by Section 9(a), there are different practices. There may be between county officials, who are responsible for handling complaints, but there may also be different handling between municipalities. Therefore, it is quite natural that we go through both the guidance track and the regulatory track and in that context consider what might and should be done to strengthen legal certainty. It's right, as it's pointed out, that the Education Law Committee comes with its investigation before Christmas, and then we'll see what they come with. But let me finally underline the general picture: there's less trouble and unrest in Norwegian classrooms, that's one of the positive findings in PISA. Teachers do a good job with class management and relationship building, and it contributes more time to teaching for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e957	The last thing we agree on, and I also think the answer from the Council of State that a thorough review is very good. So I hope he takes with him the call from us on Stortinget that, in particular, this with the right of objection will be important to look at in that process. I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: As I said, I think there will be many discussions around in Norwegian classrooms over the next few weeks about what this law – and the judgment – means. Can the Council of State give any indication as to when this review may be concluded, when teachers can get any answers on the training law itself, but perhaps especially on the right to object — whether it is during the spring or whether there is a longer running Council of State looking at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e964	We have started this work, but I will not now set any deadline for it. As I have already said, the different elements we have to look at are. One is the question of any guidance, if there is a need for better guidance from school owners. There's also something we can do with KS, which has an important role to play in this, and that's something you can do in a shorter period. Any legislative and regulatory adjustments take longer. Anyway, I want to stress the importance of school owners taking an active role and working with transparency culture. Teachers also need to feel secure to be able to say from. It must not be that teachers are afraid to say so for any reason. The school owner and the school manager must provide teachers with security in their professional practice. They're going to be safe in the classroom, in school, and they're going to have the full opportunity to say clearly if there's something that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e970	We welcome early efforts and the renewal of the trade union. A review of the six-year reform has also been important for the Centre Party, because researchers, teachers and parents have been concerned about how the youngest students are doing at school after the school was lowered from seven to six years. The first year of school would provide room for play and time outside the classroom and be a soft familiarity to school. The government agrees with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party's proposals in the 2020 government budget by referring to research that underpins our school criticism. The research points, among other things, to: on the need for more student-centred teaching and room for better teacher and student-relations. How, then, can the government's answer be to introduce skills objectives into two new second-class subjects? Does the government disagree with the findings of the research?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e979	Now it's rare that research is unique. It would have been very nice if research could give us one answer. Often it is that research points to the need for more research. I believe that the new curricula are a very good response to the challenges we see in Norwegian school. I think they'll give a good transition from kindergarten to school. It will also give municipalities an obligation to ensure a good transition. There is also a discussion among professionals about the second stage skills objectives, possibly also at the first stage, can help to create a good transition. However, competence objectives do not necessarily mean that there must be very high requirements, but it may just be to make this transition soft. So I mean, as I've been alerting for a long time, and it's also reflected in the curriculum, that the youngest children can learn well through play. I'm glad it's well received. At the same time, we also make clear the basic skills of the new curriculum, because it is important that children learn to read, write and calculate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e990	I thank you for your answer. But when teachers, students and parents doubt that the youngest students are subjected to a pressure they are not mature for, and that inhibits rather than promote learning, we have to recognise that target requirements are not necessarily the solution. The students know ‘must, must, must, hasten me to go, go, go’ — they never have enough time for everything they need to reach. Does the Council of State see it from the students that there may be too many tests, or will the argument about an alleged need for more knowledge always weigh more heavily?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e997	What weighs most on me is that all children and young people get help and support, that everyone has the opportunity to develop their potential, and that they learn the basic skills of reading, writing and calculating. I've met so many young people in my childhood who tell stories that they've never been seen. It was never discovered that they had the challenges of reading, writing and calculating. When we have child-care screening tests, it's just to be able to catch the students who are struggling, and have the opportunity to give them intensive training, so that these students master. As regards competence requirements, we had a question in the hearing about the stage at which competence requirements should start. There's a little bit different view of it. Some believe that by having competence requirements from the first or second stage you can contribute to a smoother transition, others think otherwise. That's why we haven't adjusted this right now, but it's an important discussion in the future, so that we can make sure that our children are able to make a good transition from kindergarten to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1006	The SSB's figures show that last year's profits from the private kindergartens were 1.2 billion. kr. Of these, 10 became pst. transferred to the dividends of the owner. In addition, we know that intrigued ownership structures allow some kindergarten owners to obtain large sums from what SV believes should have gone to the children in kindergarten. However, as I have understood the Council of State, the municipalities will now distribute a nursery allowance and supervise all matters other than the economy, while the municipalities will not be able to have access to the accounts of private kindergartens. Shares my fear that government supervision will lead to local politicians being powerless when, for example, kindergartens. does not meet the norm, and does the Council of State consider that the new state supervision will meet the need for supervision in Norwegian kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1013	Let me first say that I think it's important that we keep diversity in the kindergarten sector. I believe it has served both the children, the families and us as a society well that we have a combination of small and large kindergartens – municipal, private and ideal. That's my starting point, and it's my goal to ensure it through a new regulation, a more forward-looking regulation of kindergartens. Then the representative Fagerås described a situation in the kindergarten sector in a situation where the municipalities have been responsible for supervision. The challenge is the changes that have taken place in the kindergarten sector, from municipalities granting grants to one private nursery in their municipality and overseeing it, to large groups in several levels and established in several municipalities. What we've seen is that municipalities have little control over the economy of private kindergartens. I am absolutely sure that government supervision will have more competence to oversee the economy in kindergartens, and that this will be good both for kindergartens, for parents and for us as a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1022	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1027	The 2020 State Budget contains some important milestones in the field of research and higher education. I'll start by going back four years in time. Then the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government agreed with the Left and Christian People's Party to phase in eleven months of study support, an increase in study support of one additional month. It was a great and important victory for the Left. The joy is no less today, when the Stortinget adopts the 2020 budget of the Ministry of Knowledge and with it adopts a decision on the phase-in of the fourth and last week. In this way, the students have received more than NOK 11000 in increased purchasing power since the agreement in 2015. Together with other bets, the students have received NOK 14 600 more to route with now than before the Solberg government joined. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the students, who have been on this for many years. It is quite clear that being an ‘optimist’ pays off. Then I would like to ask that the students also stand on, among other things. to ensure that student partnerships across the country are ready to apply for grants to the 2,200 student housing units that are also in the next year’s budget. It's another big and important student vow for this government. In the budget debate a year ago, I talked about what is happening in our universities, colleges, research institutions and businesses is crucial to finding solutions that can help reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Then the climate was negotiated in Katowice, Poland. Climate change is now under way in Madrid. Meanwhile, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are falling, but the impact of climate change is becoming increasingly apparent. The transition to greener Norway must continue. Research and technology development shall contribute to reducing emissions and new green jobs. Changeover is a key word in the government's three long-term plans, totaling 1.5 billion. kr over 4 years. Here we go, "Middle by mile". The technology promise will provide us with the basis for green business and more green jobs across the country. The R & D initiative for innovation and conversion in business will help us to increase research efforts in business. The commitment to quality in higher education shall provide better and more motivated candidates both in research and in the labour market. It's good for society, and it's good for the students themselves. In 2020, the budget for Diku’s quality programmes will be increased by 55 million. kr such as, inter alia: shall be used for measures to increase student mobility and more and better practices. I am particularly pleased that with this budget, we are getting more tools to make higher education more accessible around the districts and in places without campus. For some adult students with family and other obligations, it may be difficult to travel to a city where there is a university or higher education institution. We are now allocating funds corresponding to 100 study places to a new scheme that universities and colleges can apply for, to set up decentralised study facilities and a total of 56 million. kr for the development and operation of study and further training. It also gives municipalities and local business incentives to even closer cooperation with the UH sector in order to meet their regional skills needs. Finally, I would like to express great pleasure at the fact that with this budget, we are putting money on the table to start with the construction and rehabilitation of the Viking Age Museum. This happens after an external quality assurance, which was completed last autumn. Today’s ships and collections at the museum are among Norway’s and the world’s most important world heritage, and it is vital that we ensure it for future generations. I really look forward to visiting the museum when it's done around the end of 2025. "Oh, oh, oh, so happy I shall be!"
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1047	It is tempting to start with ‘Long live the faith that enemies can become friends’, but I do not. As early as the budget day, it was clear that the government of the sixth year is making a so-called red tape and efficiency cut in the UH sector. The Granavolden statement promised to target the cuts, but it's running all over the place. This way of ruling does not have the Workers' Party's support. We believe that this is no reform; it is simply unpriority, unfair cut-off policy that undermines the institutional space for action. However, just two days after the adoption of the ABE cuts in the financial debate, Right-wing Representative Synnes ’ emblematic wave criticized these cuts and said that they were not targeted, and that there is no reason to believe that the ABE reform in its sixth year is now beginning to clear up both the educational and research resources in this country. The Labour Party is proposing today to assess the impact on the sector, and the question is whether the right government is against the Right on the Stortinget, or whether they are going to listen to Synnes’ emblem wave. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]] The question was really whether Synnes Emblemwave is a lonely swallow on the Stortinget, or whether the government will evaluate the cuts. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1058	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1064	This, I believe, is a case where the Workers' Party protests for all the world, but is on its way. They say they're against the ABE reform, but they don't reverse it in their alternative budget. Now they want an evaluation of the reform, but it's hard to do something like that when they're cutting pretty dramatic in our bureaucracy, i.e. the people who work for colleges and our universities. The ABE reform has been an important reform for the whole process of ensuring that we spend public money, taxpayers' money, in a good, efficient and thoughtful way. We have so far chosen to distribute it evenly across our universities and colleges. They are thus free to take the cuts where they see that it is possible to take the cuts, but they have, despite the ABE reform, also had real growth in the next year's budget. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1069	The ABE cuts are among several factors that influence the working situation of researchers and teachers at universities and our colleges. Academia is now in parallel with several heavy change processes that impose demands and expectations on employees, such as: structural reform, internationalisation, digitisation, work relevance, open publication. All of this helps to change the working conditions of researchers and the research role itself. The leader of the research association wrote in Khrono in October that, while the demands and expectations for researchers and teachers are increasing as politicians' ambitions develop, fewer young people are tempted into a research career. We know that research is the key to the transition we're going through, and we know that we can't risk failing recruitment here too. So the question is: does the Council of State agree that an investigation can be a good starting point for understanding and improving the working conditions and career development of researchers, and will the Council of State take the initiative in taking on such a knowledge status? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1076	The Ministry of Knowledge and I are already in the process of doing much of what the Workers' Party now wants us to take the initiative. There's a lot going on in our sector right now, that's exactly what the representative says; we've made a good move on on what's open research. Mobility messages shall be submitted until next year. We are doing a good job with the work on the job relevance message. The announcement of the empowerment reform will be presented next year and will have a major impact on our sector. Our sector is crucial for Norway's competitiveness and development and green transition in the future. It's demanding, but it's important. That is why we have great expectations for our sector. The issue of recruitment is really a serious one, especially with regard to the younger researchers. It is all about everything from the attractiveness of the profession, but also the temporaryity, to bring it down. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] Here we have multiple processes going on and we're doing a lot already.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1081	The next replicator is Marit Knutsdatter Strand. I have to ask that the replicators be able to fit the time. Even though the president is an old man, he follows along at the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1086	Study places are important for meeting future skills needs. Lack of qualified teachers is the biggest challenge facing the school, to improve and to implement new curricula. That is why we are critical that the government continues to control the teacher crisis and actually reinforce it by a number of measures, including: the closure of teacher training in regions that we know are under-represented by qualified teachers. How does the Council of State defend that places of study with a good number of applicants for teacher training, such as Nesna, will be closed when the undercoverage of teachers will grow and the proportion of unskilled school staff remains record high, especially in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1091	Having good enough teachers is an important task in the years to come. That's why we've taken some important steps. We've raised the character limit for learning to make it more attractive. We've been doing teacher training for five years. We have arranged for the write-down of student loans for those who get through teacher training. We've also started a project now in the two northernmost universities to qualify the semi-students who didn't finish the old teacher training. So here we're working in several areas just to strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession. Fortunately, we see that the numbers are good, the numbers of applicants for teacher training are good. I'm glad. The question asked by the representative is addressed to the Nordic University. The university itself has now said that they will continue to deliver teachers to the Helgeland region. Now they're going to do it from one studio, not three – in Mo in Rana.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1098	It is good that the Council of State has confidence in the institutions, and it is clear that professional autonomy is extremely important. At the same time, however, we believe that public framework and funding will always affect the institutions. ‘Never in life’ whether it is different. Earlier this fall, the Police Forum reacted to the cutting of study places at the Police College with shock and disbelief. Education institutions and the Stortinget refer to one government. I then simply wonder what makes the decision of the board of directors for Nord universitet weighs heavily, while the decision of the board of directors for Politihøgskole is set aside when cuts of study places are taken in Oslo against their council.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1105	Police high school is quite different from our other colleges on several points. First of all, it's a college that educates our apparatus of power. Our other colleges sometimes challenge the apparatus of power a little bit more than the council appreciates, but that's the way it is. There's a big difference that makes the government and department have a closer connection to the Police College than we have in the Department of Knowledge, where we keep the arm's length distance. In addition, our colleges, which are under the Ministry of Knowledge, can take up and down offer of study as needed. They can't do that the police high school the same way, because they train policemen. They cannot move study places to another field. But the main reason is that the Stortinget has passed a law: § 9-2 of the Law of Higher Education states that it is the governments of the universities that are to determine the internal organisation at all levels, and that provision does not apply to the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1114	I might also have to ask about the relationship between North University and police training. We have one government – one government. But they obviously have several different policies and principles. So where one of the state councils won't overtake the board of directors of the North University, which is going to drop out of the 100-year-old college at Nesna, the other state council, for justice, is going to overtake the board of directors of the Police College, which is going to shut down the study at Stavern. To me, it is incomprehensible that one government can stand for such an incoherent policy. Does the Council of State agree with me that it is particularly important that one Council of State should review the autonomy of the board, while the other does not? And doesn't the Minister of Justice's intervention show that the law opens up so that even Council of State Nybø could have tried the board of directors at North University if she wanted to?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1121	It's a pretty simple explanation of these two cases, and it's simply that we have a different code that applies to the Police College and to the colleges that are subject to the Ministry of Knowledge. In 2005, the Stortinget unanimously adopted the fourth paragraph of Section 9-2 of the Law on Higher Education. They have made it clear in the biggest report on structure during the previous ageing period that it is the Governing Board that is to assess the location of the study site structure and that they dealt with a case earlier in the autumn on precisely Nesna. The difference is that the higher education institutions and universities which are subject to the Ministry of Knowledge are also subject to the fourth paragraph of Section 9-2 of the Law on Higher Education, which states that it is the board that is to determine the internal organisation at all levels. That provision shall not apply to the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1128	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1134	Education and research are the basis for development, new science and innovation. Investment here is crucial for the transition of Norway and for our response to emerging societal challenges. Unfortunately, this is not adequately reflected in the government budget. The government does not provide sufficient study places around or sufficient training capacity in areas where Norway is critically in need of further development. Instead of shooting in fresh funds to educate more people, the government takes with one hand and gives with the other. For the sixth time, a flat cut is carried out in the university and higher education sectors, and there is little help in allocating some hundred study places to educational institutions in sharing – 250 new study places to unclear aggregation categories such as health and care, technology and green sustainability. This is a drop in the ocean. The Labour Party is far more offensive. We propose 3,000 places of study, not least to meet the enormous need for nurses, teachers, ICT competence and decentralised education. These are strategically important areas for Norway neglected by the government today. Digitalisation and globalisation are among the main drivers of change that roll over the country, but not even here. The government proclaims ambitions, but the measures are missing. Internationalisation is declining, even as important as it is for the quality of education and research. We are not in the vicinity of meeting the need for academic places, scholarships or research in ICT, and we have weakened digital competitiveness. The Labour Party not only proposes quantitatively more, we also have qualitative improvements. We will focus more on content, on welfare, on study quality and on student follow-up to get more people to complete their education. Norway is now among OECD countries with the weakest higher education implementation. This threatens our competitiveness and our future ability to adapt. The main strategy of the HR to increase implementation has so far been the disputed student support conversion scheme. We believe that this scholarship cut is unsocial and slightly forward-looking, and we suggest that the government evaluate its effects. Student housing is crucial for the economy and well-being of students, but in spite of large, outreach needs, the target number of student housing is too low, and it has become no larger than in the last two years. We miss a follow-up from the Council of State to ensure that the housing Stortinget decides is actually built. And we're doubling the effort of mental health for students, where the government doesn't do anything either. The share of research in GDP is declining. The Labour Party has previously warned against Norwegian investment in research and development being below the OECD average and the lowest in the Nordic region. We are “One of those who wake up by the flame” [[for our soil]] We're proposing 150 million. D through new programmes in the Research Council, and we will set up new top research centres in key areas. We are one of those that keeps the branches together. We propose 100 new recruitment positions in the university and higher education sectors to develop the professions, increase the scope and quality of research and innovation work in health and care, contribute to the good implementation of five-year teacher training and develop several sound professional environments in ICT, technology and real science. The 2020 state budget could and should have been the most important immediate measure to follow up the objectives of the long-term plan in practice and offer more opportunities for study, increase the research share, invest in lifelong learning and get more students through education. Norway can do better than this, and there is absolutely no time to take a break. The only dangerous way we have to move through is to speed up the investment in research and development, education and innovation. The resources Norway owns, puts the government in a golden position for power deployment, but then the will must be present. And I am «One of those who never wakes up from the dream». I am promoting the proposals that Torstein Tvedt Solberg has not made on behalf of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1159	At that time, the representative, Ms Sandberg, put forward the proposals to which she referred. 17 and 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1164	A few weeks ago, a press conference with the government council Sanner was live streamed in many classrooms around the country. I often think Sanner is giving good talks, but I think the commitment this time was a little over the average. I am very proud that it is the Right in the Government that has now started the union renewal, the Knowledge promise 2.0, and that this budget will equip Norwegian school to implement a completely new curriculum reform. With this innovation, we're still going to have to press on basic skills: reading, writing and billing. But more subjects become more practical and exploratory – more critical thinking and source criticism, more time for professional immersion. Although I am very happy that this curriculum reform will be implemented, there is no doubt that it is not enough to have a good school that follows everyone. If we're to lift the students' education in school, politicians have to dry. We have to work hard to prioritise what's most important for students' learning, and not everything you think can be important anywhere. What is most important is probably professionally up-to-date teachers who have time to work in a good professional community, early work and closer follow-up of young people at risk of falling out. I'm not a very easily frightened person, but I get a little scared when I read the opposition's alternative budgets and also hear them in this room. Even with 10 to 22 billion. kr in tax increases are not the Labour Party or SV in the vicinity of fulfilling its main promises. SV shall complete a full-day school by granting an extra 3 kr per student each day. There won't be much homework, physical activity and cultural activities of it. And the representative of Fagerås says in a reply in this room that otherwise the bill will be sent down to the municipalities, because they are responsible. Then I wonder where the municipalities are going to cut to meet this all-day school. Nor is the Workers' Party in the vicinity of financing its most important promises. School food is not in the vicinity of funded, nor is the ABE reform, which is going to eat up the entire tax increase of the Workers' Party. The promises are so expensive that it will destroy any effort at early effort, more teachers and more skills in the years to come. Because not even the Workers' Party or SV can increase taxes by 20 billion. kr every one year. We know what measures are being lowered. We see it in the cities that the Workers' Party and SV run. Oslo has several students who struggle with reading, but 300 million. kr shall be used for school food. We see it in the Central Party budget as well, because here you cut 120 million. In the teacher-specialist system and in national tests, the money is to be spent on other quality measures at school. But the money's gone. No more heads are allocated to empowerment of teachers, teachers or early efforts. In other words, the solution of the centre party is to drag a blind-dried downhill school-Norway, cut into further training of teachers and call it trust. It is a rather poor recipe to ensure that all children receive equivalent training. The school should both form and educate. But there's no contradiction between the school's broad community assignments and students learning to read, write and calculate, and transparency about outcomes. Reading is not a narrower part of the school's mission, rather on the contrary, it is quite essential that students also master practical-esthetic subjects and complete secondary school. There is no contradiction between recognising that a good school is no skill, and at the same time being concerned that municipalities are following up on those schools that have major challenges over time. Knowing that boys at national level are struggling with reading more than girls is good and good, but knowing that there are some schools in some municipalities that have bigger challenges, and not least learning from those who succeed – Huseby school in Oslo, for example, where the boys actually read very well – yes, it's part of bringing the school on. Knowledge in school requires knowledge of the school, and there will be no less stress, extravagance or feeling of stigmatisation if you go to school year after year and neither the school nor the municipality will be able to help you. Rather on the contrary, people who fall out of high school, and people who fall out of work, are much more struggling with mental problems, and that's precisely because you haven't been out early enough. I have to say, if the Center Party is going to cut off all research projects that don't say everything about school, I think there are a lot of research projects that have to be cut, including the Student Survey and employee studies. On the contrary, I believe it is important to have information about the school in order to follow up. So I think we should be so honest to say that the problem in Norwegian school today is not that we have too high expectations and demands for students. Rather, the problem in Norwegian school today is that there are some students we have lower expectations for. There are some students, perhaps especially those who needed it the most, who feel that no one believes in them, and that they can master the school and the subjects. We have a duty to build a team around those students. This is precisely why the Right will never give priority to anything other than what is most important for students’ learning and mastering – ‘Never in life, my friend’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1191	If there was one country in the world that should make sure that children were not hungry at school, it was Norway. If one had a quiz in the United Nations where they were to mention one country in Europe that did not have school food, I am absolutely sure that none of the 200 member countries had come to write Norway. In a public health perspective, it means a lot if you're hungry or saturated in school everyday. Food has a socializing effect, it contributes to less anxiety, and it seems socially equalizing. The Labour Party is clear: we must have a universal system in which all children should have a school meal, not their own arrangements for them with poor superiors, as our Minister of Public Health has mentioned. I'll take you home to Rogaland, first to Hå Municipality. They've got school food. There is simple bread on a long table with two to three different dishes. But the most popular is the drink, because they have hotel milk, as they call it: ice cold. It's wise and environmentally friendly. Then we take the boat out to Utsira. Here all children from 1st to 10th grade can thank for the food every day. The rapporteur, Mr Marte, introduced free school food as a pilot project from last autumn. It was a success from day one – everything from oatmeal to cauliflower soup or cod from the sea, self-fished, right outside the schoolyard. They literally live in the middle of the dining room. And yes, they sometimes get lobsters for lunch. This is the highlight of the day at school. Good eating habits are created early – like physical activity. What makes the government stagnant after the Storting decision of one hour of physical activity every day? We know that fresh air through tour and e.g. ballid court in hall gives more active and healthy kids. This in combination with school meals would provide a better school day and educational children in school. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that. The Labour Party not only says "hallelujah" for this, we do too, and it is shown again in our alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1206	If you're really the least concerned about all kids learning to read, write and calculate, you can't, like the right and the majority here, vote in favour of SV's proposal that all schools should be dyslexic and dyscal, that is, competent to meet those students who have these problems. And they're in every classroom. Then you have to do what is important before the students get hung up for and have lost their sailillit and their apprenticeship. Because we know that happens, and it happens quickly. It's better to do this first and do it properly. The second is the discussion about PISA. Yes, it takes too much space now, both PISA and tests, and it reduces the school's mission. The whole purpose paragraph is broad, and there is now a race of tests that destroys both the sense of sea and the learning of eternal competition. There must be the needs of children and the ability of teachers to meet the whole purpose paragraph to govern the school. And it says a lot: democracy, equality, science, thinking, creative, research, critical thinking and acting ethically and environmentally consciously – to mention something. There is also a tunnel vision, I hear, especially from the representatives of the Right in this debate, related to how the municipalities and schools are going to do this. I'm in charge of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. We discussed this yesterday. Then perhaps the representative Tybring-Gjedde could be present and see that SV is proposing increases in the municipal economy of over 6 billion. Total kr. We finance the kindergarten reform in the municipalities, we finance better health station service for young people in the municipalities, we finance a lot of the other municipalities are responsible for, so that there is room to do all the good things that we know the school needs, for example. to hire enough teachers. I've been here for a long time and have been hounded by the Right in terms of teaching standards, that it's very little important. Well, that's important, and now, thank God, the government has also joined in. Most of us have probably met the students who say that they were not seen, not heard, that no one had time for them, and that they lost the desire to be at school. Yes, SV has the strongest municipal economy of all the parties on Stortinget. We also fund up the serious government has done with cutting social benefits in the state and shifting responsibility to the municipalities. 400 million. NOK adds SV to this to the municipalities, so they have money for it. So we're going to enable the municipalities to do their job. The government doesn't, so I understand that they don't want to be on very good proposals that would have made the school better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1221	Since I get the floor a little out in the debate, I would like to start by saying that I think one of the most stupid debates you have in Norwegian school policy is the debate where the Right is always insisting that they are the only ones for learning, while for example. The working party does not want to bet on learning. It is a stupid debate because it is demonstrably wrong, and because the real content of the policy is not discussed. Early efforts have been one of the main efforts of the Workers' Party in school for many years. That is why we have proposed a read, write and calculate guarantee that is accompanied by resources, for example. to special educational efforts and effort teams in schools, so that teachers can do the job. That's why we have proposed the bet within kindergarten. That's why we have bigger education budgets than the government. When they talk about this, they mention as an example that the Workers' Party is opposed to intensive education for students. It's also wrong. It is true that the Labour Party voted against the right-wing government's proposal and for our own. It was because we thought that the government's proposal was too ambitious, that we should limit the obligation of intensive schooling to 4th grade, for example. We thought that effort didn't go far enough. After having been directly shut by right-wing representatives for over a year since the matter was dealt with, we can now read in the State budget that the government is about to give the Workers' Party the right. Now the government writes that they will consider extending the obligation to after 4th grade, as the Workers' Party would, but for which we received harsh criticism from the government parties. I think this is wise of the government, but it shows that the right is often more concerned with rhetoric than with discussing the real content of the school. Nor is it the case that giving priority to school food or SFOs is a priority for school education. On the contrary, it is possible to give a different priority and bet on school and welfare rather than on tax cuts. That's why the Workers' Party has 1.4 billion. more for early work and more teachers in school than the government. That's why we have 626 million. kr more to kindergarten than government, or 250 million. kr more for professional subjects. It's because we think you can bet on the school and not do like the government, who thinks that any new action, any new idea at school, is to be paid by cutting elsewhere in the education budget. We mean, for example: not that the kindergarten parents are to pay for the kindergarten bet by increasing the nursery price more than the government has increased the early childhood bet in the last six years. We do not believe that the students should pay for their study support themselves. We'd rather bet on school and welfare than on tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1232	The government has high ambitions for the Norwegian knowledge society and rates of research and development. Since the accession of this government, R & D appropriations for the State budget have increased by 12.5 billion. kr. A Joint Committee notes that the 2020 objective is to actively participate Norway in international cooperation in education, research and integration. The Committee also points out that international cooperation is particularly important in research and innovation, where the link with leading research environments is crucial, and underlines the importance of Norway taking an important position in the new EU research programme Horizon Europe. Norway is actively involved in the development of the European Research Area. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway participates in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, and may affect the content of the Programme. Norway has been participating in the Framework Programme for Research for more than 20 years and in the light of the EEA Agreement since 1994. The main objective of Norway’s EU research cooperation and participation in the world’s largest research programme is to increase the quality of Norwegian research and ensure innovation and relevance in Norwegian research and innovation. Norway also participates as programme country in Erasmus+ in the same way as EU Member States. The EU sees the importance of mobility in Europe and exchanges in education and research. The next Erasmus+ programme is proposed double to 30 billion. euro. The main focus remains on individual mobility between places of study and the link between education and working life. 33,000 Norwegian students have studied abroad through Erasmus+. The centre party says they're engaged in research, and will strengthen the research effort to make up 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. At the same time, they will scrap the EEA Agreement and show it in their alternative budget by halving the EEA funds that finance research cooperation with a number of European countries. In 2016, the Centre Party cut the entire operating budget of the SIU, the Centre for Internationalisation of Education, which administers Erasmus+. «Never in life» I have thought that travelling abroad could be so dangerous! Has the Centre considered the implications for Norway's research and education cooperation by acting so protectively, or do they think that we can solve all societal challenges through national research alone? And what about participation in Horizon Europe and Erasmus+ if the Central Party joins the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1247	Study support is an important condition for equal rights to education. Norway was in the early stages of establishing state student support, and the State loan fund has been one of our most important welfare arrangements after the war — both by building up social divisions and by building up the country. «In a small valley far north» I was the first in the family to take higher education, and it was thanks to the Loan Fund. The working party has always worked for equal opportunities. That is why we were sceptical about the tightening up of the study support that the government introduced in the 2019 budget, which was the subject of the student loan conversion scheme. Before the change up to 40 pst. of the loan converted into a scholarship as the students received their study credits. With a new order, 15 is going to be pst. by the proportion of the scholarship given after completion of the degree. The working party reacted to the adoption without sufficient analysis of the impact on individual groups, without assessing what such tightening would mean for lifelong learning or how it would affect the needs of the labour force. We also responded that the government did not involve the student organisations or anyone else involved in the decision-making process. We voted against the scholarship cut because we feared that this would punish students who, for various reasons, do not complete a degree or switch directions along the way. In addition, we believe that this scheme could serve as a disincentive to continuing education and that it is doubtful whether it will have an impact on higher education completion. In our alternative budget for 2019, we proposed to restore the conversion scheme in its entirety by 256 million. kr. Students’ organisations believe that the conversion scheme will not solve the causes of non-response and are concerned about the consequences. The working party agrees, and we therefore propose, together with the Centre Party and the SV, to evaluate the effects of the conversion scheme. The Labour Party sees it as a political task to reduce differences. Can a requirement become softer? We want a study support that continues to contribute to it, so we don't lose talent and smart minds at a time when knowledge and competence are more important than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1256	«Acquiring money, goods or gold; inheriting a castle, we can, but what is it; against pleasures which everyday gives» by means of an apprenticeship guarantee? Students learn with both their heads and their hands. If we're going to recruit more people for the most important professions, we're going to have to start earlier. More practical training for all creates interest, and better equipment in the professions and apprenticeships for all qualified persons must be provided to train more proud professionals. On the first page of the Avisa Sør-Trøndelag on 3 December, the following is stated: ‘Jankos AS in Snillfjord could increase turnover by several million kroner — if they had better access to professionals.’ ‘Oh, oh, oh, so happy I’m going to be’ when the right-wing government will listen to the NHO, LO and Workers’ Party in terms of the need for a stronger commitment to the profession in 2020 and in the years ahead. The working party has set aside 250 million in its alternative budget. kr more for professional investment. Norway will lack more than 90,000 skilled workers in 2035. This will weaken the competitiveness of business and the quality and capacity of hospitals, kindergartens and schools. The Labour Party will have more proud trade union workers. This will require a significantly stronger investment in vocational training than the government’s mere 30 million. kr for new measures. The government is clapping on its shoulders for small steps in the right direction, but there is ‘miles by mile’ between the government’s lack of initiative and the Workers’ Party’s strong commitment to professionalism. The big picture is that there are still 6,000 to 7 000 untrained applicants every year. There's nothing to cheer on. Of the students who start professional programmes, a total of four out of ten have not obtained a certificate of formal qualifications after five years or later. These are challenges that underline the need for greater investment in the professions, so that we train skilled workers in the labour market to the point of need. The Labour Party will invest a professional billion in this period – with 250 million. SEK in 2020, 100 million. kr to up-to-date, modern equipment, 45 mill. SEK in increased apprenticeship grants, 50 million. NOK 20 million for national learning place guarantee. DKK for scholarships for several vocational teachers, SEK 20 million. NOK 15 million for practical grants. kr for the recruitment of several educational establishments and 200 million. to the hospitation of counsellors in secondary school. If we are to train more proud professionals and workers that the country needs in the future, we need a targeted and clear strategy for how to achieve this goal. To put it mildly, there is no ‘new under the sun’ with regard to the government’s proposals for the State budget for 2020, especially in the field of vocational training. Finally, I would like to stress the need for a national apprenticeship guarantee – not just on behalf of the students, but on the basis of what an overall business life is dedicated to. Several skilled workers will provide a safer and better labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1278	One of the main areas of activity of this government is to ensure that more people are able to complete high school, to ensure that more people can leave high school with a diploma or a diploma in hand. The proportion that completes secondary education is now greater than it has ever been since the measurements began, and we see that record numbers are getting a place for learning. Nevertheless, there is not enough room to shout ‘hallelujah’ yet. 15-20 pst. students leaving high school have so weak skills that they will have problems coping with further education and jobs. And there's still too many people who don't get a place to study and who fall out of high school. Finally, a lot is happening to high school and to make sure that the students are ready to start high school. The government will ensure a better transition between secondary and secondary education. We know that there is a direct link between the achievements of young people in high school and their ability to complete high school, and not all young people are ready to go straight to high school. Someone needs more time to get the knowledge they need. Some may need more time to find out what they want, to combine school and practice for a year, and to be motivated for more education. This is why young people should be offered an interim period between secondary and secondary school. The government also gives county municipalities responsibility for career guidance in their region and extended responsibility for all young people aged 16 to 24. This government is well under way with the largest conversion in secondary education in many years. It's easy for parties to say that you're betting on, among other things. professional, particularly with the use of monopoly money and with an extra large tax bill for enterprises in Norway, enterprises that need a healthy economy, not least in order to receive more apprentices. What matters is that we now have a government that actually implements, after many red-green years without any commitment to professional and secondary education. We are in the process of a structural reform of the profession, not to mention all the measures we have taken to provide more apprenticeships and the vocational training profession. The Song Committee will soon have completed its assessment of the structure of high school and will see if the students have the knowledge they need when they leave. Not least, the State Council, Jan Tore Sanner, has announced that there will be a separate announcement of high school education in the spring. In the right hand side, this is also an important field of action. We put forward our own 50-step plan a few months ago to allow more people to complete. I am incredibly proud of the work the government is doing to ensure an even better high school, and the efforts made both in previous budgets and in this. With this government I know that ‘it’s going well at last’, and just like Grand President Wilhelmsen Troeen, I am ‘an optimist’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1292	With the right-wing government, it is a fact that differences between peoples are increasing — between poor and rich and between towns and cities — and education policy should, of course, provide opportunities for everyone. In 2025 almost 20 pst. of the population of Norway, or more than 900000 people, are over 67 years of age and over a quarter of a million will be over 80 years of age. Many of them will need care from the community. Of course, there will be fewer work to do this help, and in parts of the country the imbalance will be reinforced by geographical differences both in age composition and in access to skilled labour. It's a development we don't see any plan to meet from the right-hand government. We are far from the candidate goals, especially for nurses and specialist nurses. We're missing 6,000 of them, and the right-hand government here really seems to have forgotten the social mission, namely to secure the welfare state. We need more expertise in areas that represent the main challenges in the welfare service. For the Workers' Party, the mission to Stortinget is obvious. We need to adapt education policy to the needs of society, so that the generations of the future have access to as good services as we ourselves have benefited from. Education and research are key factors in the further development of health and welfare services and prevent the emergence of new social divisions. Employees with the right skills for the services must be equipped to meet the challenges facing us. The judicial administration does not provide sufficient study places around the country or sufficient training capacity in areas where Norway has a critical need to develop further. Instead of shooting in enough fresh funds to educate more people, the government takes with one hand and gives with the other. Once again, a flat budget heading is being implemented in the university and higher education sectors. For the Workers' Party, this is the wrong policy. We will set up 3,000 new study places in 2020 in the fields of health and social sciences, ICT and technology – areas where we know that we need to develop skills to ensure the welfare services of people across the country. ‘Voi, voi’ – but that is already said in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1301	The National Audit Office has recently presented a report on the manning challenges of healthcare professionals. The report shows that health professionals face major challenges in recruiting and retaining health professionals. Manning challenges are so great that they add that the quality of patient care is threatened. 40 pst. of the clinical units in hospitals have tried without success to recruit new staff in the last three months. The fact that every six specialised nurses and midwives are over 60 years old shows that recruitment challenges will not be overcome by themselves. In such a situation, more than ever, we need a policy to ensure equal access to higher education across the country, which means that the youth dreaming of becoming a nurse should avoid having to travel ‘miles by mile’ to take the training he or she wants. In such a situation, centralising nurse training in the north is a serious mistake. The decision to drop the nursing education in the Sandness Lake is fatal not only for the Helgeland Hospital, it is just as fatal for the municipalities around it as it is toiling with the lack of nursing care. The Central Party shall give early warning of such consequences of the government’s structural reform for higher education. The aim of the reform was better quality through aggregation, but the result is the centralisation of study places. In the north, centralization is already a dark fact. The board has decided to shut down the study places in the Sandness Lake and Nesna since the merger was a fact. A driver in this is the Government Party's ambition that the financing of higher education should be based more on competition, with increased results-based funding. This leads to additional pressures in smaller places of study and on important professional training such as teachers, nurses and engineers. The centre party will enable educational institutions to carry out their important social tasks. We propose to introduce in our budget a special source of subsidies for decentralised education and grants that can compensate for the extra costs of running multi-campus institutions. We also propose several recruitment options that are earmarked for those institutions that need the most to strengthen their research skills in line with accreditation requirements. Our health system is completely dependent on recruitment, and then one depends on decentralised, good educational institutions. We need a policy that allows educational institutions to retain their social responsibility. It's not happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1314	A good start to life is crucial to how life becomes, and a good schooling day is a good start to life. Traditional special education in Norway is given to over 40000 students. Half of those conducting special education are unqualified. That doesn't mean they're doing a bad job, but many of them are very busy learning more and getting more skills in the important job they do every day. Many students are unable to crack the reading code in time and are not susceptible to other learning through their schooling. The measures taken are too late, and professional investigations are often too slow. The students are taken out of teaching to carry out their own arrangements, often based on a detailed single decision from the PPT. This is often seen as stigmatizing. Often school days for many of these students are not good. I come from Dovre, who has implemented the Dovre model for many years – a model for early action and good follow-up in the classroom. The model has worked, and the school at Dovre has clearly improved. The school has been at the top of the KS municipality barometer for several years, and this has been done through an effort for which the teachers absolutely have all my respect. School day has become better for many of the students and especially those who have fallen outside. The measures implemented are not complicated. They're really pretty simple, but it has to be followed up. It must be followed up with resources, it must be followed up with money, it must be followed up with people, and trust must be given to those who carry out the job in the classrooms. Teachers must be able to continue their training. The traditional implementation of the PPT service needs to be substantially changed. The two-teacher system will allow for individual student follow-up in the classroom. The reading code, which is absolutely essential, must be broken as early as possible, and it must be done through methodological efforts. Dovre with the Dovre model has been chosen as one of the pilot municipalities in the government's early efforts. I ask the state council and you who run the store every day, to listen and learn from what they have to say, because they have a lot to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1327	The study federations have shown us every year that training is an important part of volunteering. They are a good instrument for including and combating exclusion, democracy building and active participation in both social and work life. We in the Christian People's Party understand that the fear of poorer economic conditions over time can wear on both fires and course participants, while creating little predictability. "Oh, oh, oh, so happy I'm going to be" so that we in the budget union were able to reverse the cut to the study federations. Higher vocational education plays an important role in ensuring continuing training for Norwegian jobs in the transition work facing employment. An increase in places of study next year should be followed up by further escalation over time. It is an important offer that combines practice and theory in a special way. The three private vocational schools in Norway should also not create uncertainty about the financing of, although the grants that previously went directly from the state now go through the county municipality. These are funds which are to be transferred in full to the respective vocational schools. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has, following the conversion of the NoRPART programme in 2016, requested the effects in view of the entries of students from the poorest countries at Norwegian universities and colleges. The conversion resulted in a sharp reduction in this group, which was also a loss for our student environments. We are therefore pleased that the government has now made changes that open up to provide study support to a large extent in Norway with exchanges to cooperation institutions in the south. This means that new groups of students from the very poorest countries can conduct their degree studies in Norway. In the South there is a new, exciting marine project that is a collaboration between industry, the Marine Research Institute and the Academy. The Blue Competence Centre South is allocated 6 million. kr to develop the basis and possibilities for new marine industry activities. The school ship Gann is also an important recruitment measure for the maritime sector. I like the extra 6.4 million. kr we received as an increase in the specific annual grant for maritime operations. Then there are some inequalities in the funding of the three major public science academies in Norway. While two of them get funds from the state budget, the third one, Agder Science Academy, doesn't get it. There should be a non-discrimination between these three in that they all have a place in the State budget based on what they produce from scientific productions and otherwise documented scientific work, national and international. Finally, the best investment we can make for the desire for a sustainable society is to invest in children and young people's knowledge, education and growth. We have shown this to be a priority in this budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1346	Our planet needs a radical environmental transformation. We need a new green deal. For SV, this is the first budget to show what a new green deal can look like for Norway. For 'never in life' I intend to give up the dream of the green shift, and 'never in life' I intend to give up the dream of a new, green deal. But to achieve that dream, not every budget can just get a little bit greener in the future than the previous one, it has to take a big hold. The green shift in Norway demands the greatest change in skills of the time. The competence of the future must be about innovation, technology development, necessary innovation, how we support industries that are necessary for the zero-emission society, and how we use the skills that are available, for example. the oil industry today. It must preserve and create jobs through a large-scale investment in green industry and new green industries. Research shall contribute to resolving the climate crisis and provide the basis for new industries. Research is crucial for the transformation of the Norwegian economy, and there must be a green shift in research as well. There is also a need to invest more in research. Politicians need to respond to the great turmoil caused by the climate crisis – the turmoil of young people who demonstrate for action, the alarm of all who see the warnings of climate scientists and are impatient about climate policies that do not bite the crisis. We cannot wait for a market-based crash landing of the petroleum age; we must travel new industries now. Fortunately, we have very good assumptions for that in Norway. We have large natural resources, a rich sea, large forests, good access to energy and technology and one of the world's most highly competent populations. In our budget, we propose more than 11 billion. kr more for climate and environmental measures. Much goes to green research and investment in green industry development and technology. Then it is with great concern that I record that the research appropriations in the government's government budget are reduced by 0.9 pst. The government's budget is directed towards breaking the climate targets for both 2020 and 2030. It is necessary to initiate rapid action on greenhouse gas emission cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1357	Ensuring everyone a place in the new world of work is Norway’s biggest challenge, alongside climate and increasing disparities. Then it might be expected that the government was offensive and promoted measures that were in line with the scale of the challenges, but no, it goes too slow, and it happens too little. And when there's money, it's small in terms of what's needed out there. Many people now ask themselves, Do I have a place in the future working life? Is anyone in need of me? The message of the Labour Party is that no one should be left alone in the major challenges facing Norway. The labour force in Norway is characterised by high levels of competence, effective work, and the rapid use of new tools. We must also maintain these clear advantages in the future. Then we can't leave each one to ourselves. We cannot leave development to the market. Then we get new, big class scores, and Norway loses. The working party fights for the workers because we need to ensure that more people can work longer, that jobs are made smarter and services better, and that business and municipalities have access to the skills they need. This is particularly challenging in District Norway. In the alternative budget of the year, the Workers' Party has therefore committed more than 1 billion. This is a party-driven competence fund where we first prioritise them with the shortest education, three new industry programmes prioritizing vulnerable industries, first trade in goods, transport and maritime sectors, and better training provision across the country. We want to give better rights to lifelong learning, and we want to have a clean-up action in the workplace because renting, part-time and unprofessionalism is the biggest obstacle to the increase in skills we need, for the investment in the employees that employment needs. That's why the most important thing we can do to save tomorrow's work, to throw the government of the day. The government's lack of commitment to competence can become their Waterloo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1368	Just before the summer we got new numbers that show that there are huge differences in the learning outcomes between municipalities, that a boy who drops his hands to Mom and Dad and goes into the schoolyard with a little too much frenzy on his back, depends on which class he gets into, which school he starts at. Then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's response were to criticise the government for publishing these figures, as it was somewhat stigmatizing for the municipalities. Now, when we get a PISA survey that shows that many students are struggling with reading at high school and have too little endurance, SV and the Central Party's response is to say that we're going to resign from PISA. When the government and the Right will adopt an obligation for the schools to prioritize intensive training for students who are dependent on reading, writing and billing, SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party vote against. I understand that it may be frustrating for the representative Henriksen that there is something we remind them of, but we remind them of it just because the Labour Party's reason for voting against was that prioritizing reading, writing and billing would be at the expense of all other subjects. I think politicians have to dry up saying that reading, writing and billing, basic skills, are most important in the first few years. That doesn't mean you should sit in front of the board and doggy in long educational sessions, that means you should meet every child at their level, give adapted follow-up, vary teaching. That's the problem with this debate and the alternative budgets, that when you prioritize $1 and $85 per student every day to introduce school food and $25 to introduce a leisure reform, when you criticize free core time in the kindergarten, but don't suggest a penny to change it, criticises the conversion system, but doesn't have a penny to change it, criticises the ABE reform, but doesn't have a penny to change it, we'll end up with the big money in future budgets being tied up to measures that aren't the most important thing for students' learning. The only thing that can comfort you is that they're not as bad as SV. Karin Andersen boasted that SV spends more money on the municipalities, but it is not close to paying for the big promises they have. Once again, that's the challenge for the boy who goes into school and feels that he's so dependent on which teacher he gets, which school he starts, which municipality he lives in: he depends on the politicians prioritizing the right thing. Berit Bakke Berge is a teacher specialist in math, she did it after 25 years. She said, ‘I love teaching and I had no ambitions to become an inspector or principal.’ She went on to say, "It's in the classroom with the students I like best." She was given the opportunity to try a slightly different kind of attractive career path. It increases the status of teacher-profession, which means that more people want to be teachers, and not least, it means that more students meet up with professionally up-to-date, engaged teachers in classrooms. This is a system that the entire opposition now is to cut. I think that's problematic, because it's exactly at the heart of what we know is important for the students, that they meet a teacher who sees them, are professionally up-to-date, and that gives them the opportunities they need for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1389	The representative of Fager was talking about the need to reduce climate change emissions, and then I just want to remind you that this government is actually reducing emissions, while during the previous government the emissions went up. There was also a call to talk about the oil industry and its future, and then I am glad that I am part of a majority in which we say that the oil industry will have a key role in the Norwegian economy in the future and contribute to the financing of the Norwegian welfare society. I would like to remind you that oil and gas money contributes, among other things. the research budget, as the representative took up. So if we're going to shut down the oil and gas industry, as many people call for, we don't want to cut emissions globally, we just want to move production, we want to move wealth, we want to move money over to countries that are run by Trump, Putin and bin Salman. I didn't know those people were so popular in SV. When it comes to the ABE reform, as the representative Sandberg mentioned, I record that the Workers' Party criticises a reform that they themselves do not spend money cutting. So I'd like to remind you that the sector has got 280 billion. kr on those years. If we had continued the appropriations from 2013 level, it would have been 23 billion. So we've increased by 23 billion. kr, and we have made a demand for an improvement of 1.4 billion. kr. Then you can ask the question: if you have said that you want to take the lift up to the 23rd floor, but you get to the 22nd floor, has the lift gone up or has it gone down? Otherwise, I mentioned that I had read some hearing statements from 2012. They are the ones I intend to give in Christmas to the opposition, so that they can read for themselves what the organisations out there thought about the effort when the opposition parties were running. The research community lamented that the government lacked the will and ability to invest, LO was disappointed that 11 months of student support was missing, the academics said that a white stick could be shot after 11 months of study support, and the Education Association regretted that early efforts were limited to increasing teacher density at the youth level. I'm going to make sure to print out and give the hearing opinions in Christmas to the opposition parties, so that they can read thoroughly what they delivered when they were in position, the next time they're going to prepare their alternative state budgets. So it's approaching the end. I was going to wish the Committee a good Christmas, but I see that both Carl I. Hagen and Karin Andersen have signed up, so I expect it to be a longer day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1406	As several speakers have spoken before me, the climate is high on the agenda. We need more knowledge to succeed in adapting to become a low-carbon society. Therefore, it is quite alarming when the Workers' Party finds that government parties choose to reduce funds to the CLIMIT energy research programme. It's actually CLIMIT that has helped to lift the strong environments of competence that we've connected to carbon capture. Let me just clarify: I commend Trondheim, they're best at catching, but Bergen's research environment is best at storage. It's also a little special that the TCM in Mongstad, which many people have been talking about for quite a long time, like the moon landing project, etc., has now become the world's leading research centre in the field of carbon capture. But they only have an appointment out of August next year. It's a little bit special when it comes to Americans, Indians, etc. which will conclude an agreement, that they have not been able to put in place an agreement so that they can continue the research that is taking place there. So we hope that will soon be clarified. Another area where Norway is the leader is the Bjerknescentrum. It's a multidisciplinary centre, and it might be necessary when you're going to promise and understand what's happening in climate, that we have different research areas that work together. But they're totally dependent on having that basic research, they're going to be able to achieve the absolutely necessary interaction. In fact, they are the only ones in the Nordic region who are part of the programmes implemented by the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. So it's a little bit special that they just have basic research out of 2021. So that's the next recommendation: we hope that by 2020 we can secure funding for the Mountain Centre. Then more people have been in the Blue Competence Centre. Norway has a long coast, so I think it's good to mention that I'm famous for what's happening in the South, but we actually have good Blue Competence Centres all along the coast, and it's important that we just build centres of excellence along the coast, and that we manage to support them – they're a little different – in order to interact and make use of the coast, and not least in order to be able to contribute to good, profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1417	Business competition is getting tougher and the margins are getting smaller, I said earlier, and six out of ten NHO companies lack employees with the right skills. And in the NHO's competence barometer, the lack of skilled workers and workers in vocational education is particularly attracted. We also see the same developments in many municipalities, how important welfare tasks are screaming for employees with the right skills — in all permanent jobs. In the trade journal we can read that Norway will lack 18 000 health professionals in 2035, and it is already estimated that we will need 12 750. We lack skilled workers who can provide high-quality follow-up for children, young people and older people. The most important thing we can do is invest in the future, namely in our children and young people. We need more skilled workers for Norway to go around and for us as a society to have good welfare services for everyone. The lack of skilled workers weakens industrial access to good skills and knowledge, which in turn reduces the competitiveness of enterprises. At the same time, this threatens an organised working life and weakens employees' rights to full and permanent jobs with good pay and working conditions. Higher vocational education: here the Workers' Party proposes to spend 47 million. kr more than the government in 2020. The government’s “strong bet” on 100 post-school places – yes, then I don’t know what to say about the Workers’ Party’s bet, which is in 1000 post-school places in 2020! This is about how to strengthen and adapt continuing education and training for vocational teachers, so that's where we propose 20 million. kr. The Labour Party believes that a strong commitment to professionalism must be combined with more committed cooperation between municipalities, working life and the State. In order to ensure a learning place for all qualified applicants with youth rights, we will introduce a national learning place guarantee, and we therefore propose 50 million. kr to more pilot projects in our alternative budget for 2020. The Workers' Party will focus on professional activities together with the social partners, increase the interest in the professions and ensure more than one thousand young people a letter. ‘Small, small things are of use. Little things, little things, it's listening» — yes, listening to what business has to say!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1432	Former Dovre rapporteur Bengt Fasteraune spoke warmly for the Dovre model. He has good reason for that. I am very pleased that the Council of State Sanner looked to nod and agree with Bengt Fasteraune, and expects him to follow up. Then I want to take up one thing that we will also come back to later when we will deal with the message of early effort. In Oslo it is used approx. 300 million. kr for special education, in particular Norwegian education, at primary school. These are children born in Oslo — a very large proportion of them — who need special education in Norwegian when they are of school age. That means that we have to make an effort to help these children, because I fully agree with Fasteraune that a good school and a good upbringing are the basis for the rest of my life. Then we have to put measures in place before school age. Yes, I want to go so far as to say that when you experience future parents who are unable to Norwegian in health centres, it should be recorded so that they can get help from what you can call integration counsellors after birth, so that the children will learn Norwegian before they start school. We know we have tools. Where parents cannot Norwegian and may be based on cash support, we must be able to order them to send children to kindergarten. We have a lot of praise for that now. We can add measures under the auspices of integration consultants who cooperate with child protection, which also have instruments. We have to take into account all the children born in this country who are going to stay here, and then you can't sit passive and witness that parents don't make sure their children can Norwegian when they start school. It is a parental responsibility, and at least I would argue that under child protection law there is a serious care failure if the parents do not provide for it. But we can help. We can come up with grants, we can come up with advice on how to arrange their lives, how to let their children play with other Norwegian children, and what can be done. I hope we get back to this, because we've been saying for 20-30 years now that just the kids are going to kindergarten, everything is solved. It's not solved. Now we have a long experience that even children who have gone to kindergarten receive special education in Norwegian when they start school. This is a poor starting point, and it is also one of the reasons for the read problems they later get, as the PISA study has now shown. This applies to Norway, Sweden and many other countries that do not take this seriously enough early enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1444	It is a matter of hearing the concerns of the Right-wing Representatives of the Labour Party's policy. I think we can almost establish that the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde is a little bit frightened. I understand that it is a little confusing for the Right Representatives to read the Workers' Party's alternative budget. As big bets as we've made, you're not used to government parties. Let me take this once and for all with the duty of early effort. Here it is quite clear that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is «in love with a fairy speech», for the Right Story of this is nothing more than an adventure – an adventure you might tell each other at the Right House and believe in, but that is not true. We had our own alternative proposal, which was voted down, and voted in favour of the law as a whole. We have also said that early efforts are important in the case of a labourer, for example. natural sciences, that students should also receive help. Is it to downgrade? No, by no means. In addition, the Labour Party budget shows that we are willing to prioritise resources for this. We set aside the necessary money for our reading, writing and calculating guarantee, as opposed to the right hand parts, which only operate with a desk duty, without following up with the necessary resources. It's the right hand parts that have something to answer for, and not us. I would like to hear the representative Tybring-Gjedde reply to what is now in the state budget that the government is looking at extending the obligation to several years. It's completely across what the Right now says, saying that priority should be given, when they agree with the Workers' Party for a long time, that this should apply to several years. In addition, to the State Council, which has a special history story of continuing education: the Labour Party has more to train teachers than government. However, we have a broader investment that is about several subjects, and which is also about class management, as opposed to the Right and Government, which I think has a more narrow system that is based on the separation of competent teachers, which we are opposed to. Then I think it's amazing to hear the government parties talk about the trade renewal. First of all, I am a little surprised at the scope of this trade renewal that is now coming. It was supposed to be just an adjustment of a previous reform. Now it's the biggest change in a long time. In addition, the government does not have the power to follow up with the resources needed to bring about this reform. So I would like to see the Council of State answer whether the municipalities can expect more resources for textbooks in the coming years. Now they've got a small sum that's not close enough. You have not had time to study or prepare, and the government should do that when you are talking about such a big change, but are not willing to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1457	Once you've been with a while, it's easy to see a pattern in what we see happening in these debates. I've been with you for so long that I remember the right was against the right to high school. The kindergarten reform was right-wing – very against – and they are a little against it yet, because they do not finance the norms properly. So there's been a discussion between SV and Right about the way to see the school, where SV wants it to be diverse and have a much broader approach and opportunities for students. There's been a very critical right there, but now you've put forward some new curriculums that say the exact same thing. It's going in the direction of SV, and we're happy about that. I have discussed the teaching norm in this room many times with the Right. They were very opposed, and they pulled out research that said this was going to be very important. I've studied that research a little bit, it's the one called Visible Learning, by Hattie. It says that, in fact, it is enough that better teacher training and higher professional skills are important, but there is a number 124 out of 138 interventions in place. Better skills are in place at 125. Several teachers, for whom SV has fought, are in the 106th place. It's a little bit in front, but it's not exactly in the top either. What can this teach us? Well, it can teach us that there's not one thing that works, there's a lot of things that need to be in order for this to be good. There are no plants growing either without soil or without light or without water or without sun. There's a lot of things that have to be in place, and that's SV busy. We're concerned with diversity, not uniformity, and that's why we warn against PISA and all of these tests, because it contributes to the uniformity that doesn't make school what it should be. SV is more concerned that the pupils attending the school, including those with difficulty in reading and writing, should have the right to meet a school that can help them than that the teacher training and the municipalities should be able to choose the skills and methods that can help students. Yeah, I actually think it's incredibly important that we get it in place. Of course, the schools should have freedom of method, but then you can't believe, as you rule now, with PISA, for example, that a girl in the 10th grade who knows she's going to be an architect, needs the same method in mathematics as the life-saving six-year-old who has difficulty reading and writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1470	I'm going to make an article about the cross-sectional education. It's a debate on the new curriculum. I would like to address what is in the setting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, which states that both book goals and new Norwegian have a legal anchor status as equivalent and equivalent Norwegian writing languages and must be integral parts of a language-shared national common culture. Today, only the pupils at the nursery are required to be trained in their primary objective. In the youth sector, this right is limited to teaching and examination in its own form. In language-mixed areas, one sees that this often leads to the transfer of elephants who previously had a new Norse as their primary goal at the nursery to book goals at the youth stage, i.e. a change in language when they change schools. I am pleased that both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party are with us in the Centre Party in stating that it is politically important to hold language-shared education at the youth level as well. The Central Party has 10 million in its budget. kr to language-shared youth classes. In 2016, on behalf of representatives from several parties – Labour Party, SV, Left and Christian People’s Party – I propose a representative proposal in the Stortinget to secure the right to training in their main goal. Noregs Mållag had then calculated that it was approx. 46 municipalities in Norway, where this was a problem. We showed in the proposal for a representative of the Odda model. In Odda they had solved this challenge for many years, and it's a language-mixed area. They had always had their own bookkeeping and newcomer classes in the youth as well. It was a great success. They had little transition and language change, and they had elephants that were safe language users. They had to get away from this scheme because of the municipal economy. It is not a legal requirement for municipalities to have such a scheme. I do not have a follow-up to this proposal for a representative. A consensus was reached in the Stortinget in connection with this, where both the Right Party and the Advance Party went with us to ask the government to make a change in the training law. I see that this is also on the Granavolden platform. But it is unseen, and delayed and delayed, and there is no clarification in this budget either. Here I will ask the Christian People's Party and the Left, who were with us, and who can create multiples for this, to follow it up and get an order on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1483	The representative Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1488	Right trixes with numbers. For example, in the alternative budget of SV, we include: One extra hour to practical-esthetic subjects in the fourth grade, as I said in the line-up with the representative Synnes Emblemwave, and one free cultural school class, as we had it under the red-green government, but as Erna was so good and took away from Norwegian students. The fact that the right repeats, through the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, that this means 3 kr per student butter in addition to 1., 2., 3., 4., 5., 6., 7., 8., 9. and 10. Class 10 will be reported with respect a little too stupid. KD figures show that one more school hour per week in one class step costs 100 million. kr. That is what we have laid down, and I can reassure the representatives from the Right with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1493	The representative Jorod Asphjell has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1498	A little about free school choices. Dream layers are one of the states that may have the most decentralised structure for high school. A free choice of clean school admissions will challenge many of these schools and many of the line offers. These are district schools that have a low student base initially, and if a few choose to apply to Trondheim or larger places in Trøndelag, many of these offers will be dropped. These are offers developed in cooperation with local businesses, so that students taking a professional or training profession in other areas receive an offer adapted to the environment in which they live. Orchid high school was in its time national high school. There were students from all over the country. Go well, go better. I don't think we want to go back to that kind of school. We need to maintain a decentralised school structure that allows young people to live at home, learn at home and be with their friends and family.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1505	The representative Nina Sandberg had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1510	I take the floor to reply to the representative, Mr Steffensen. I am pleased that the Workers' Party now says that in the government we will abolish the ABE reform. And then it's not like the Workers' Party on the Stortinget with a single budget can straighten out all the missteps that the right-wing government has done. I also think it is sad that the Right in Government is not more willing to take seriously the signals that are now coming very strongly from the sector. There is at least one representative in the Right who has listened to these signals and who now suggests that at least an evaluation should be carried out and perhaps also in the long term the reform of the university and higher education sectors should be completed. I would just briefly encourage the government parties in the hall to at least try to obey some of the signals coming from the outside, and at least vote for the first step in such a process: vote for an evaluation of the effects of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1519	What made me take the floor was the representative of Tvedt Solberg, who claimed that the right was a little frightened. I can assure him that we are not. On the contrary, I would almost claim that if you look at the alternative budget of the Workers' Party, they may have let themselves frighten a little by their own promises. Once again, when criticising a policy implemented by the government, it is precisely in the alternative state budget that you can show the alternative course and the priorities you want to do. Then it is a bit significant to criticise, as the Sandberg representative was about, the ABE reform. One criticises the conversion system – now recently from the pulpit. You're criticizing it with teaching materials. But you don't put any extra money into your own alternative state budget. On the other hand, during the election campaign and in the play of this state budget, it has been very clear that you should have free school food, you should have free SFO, you should have a leisure and volunteer reform, you should have resources for it. You promise the voters that you'll have to solve it through increased taxes, so you'll drop another $10 billion. kr in increased taxes on the population. And when we look at how you're going to follow up these promises, it's just crumbs. For example: school food, in fact, proposes the Workers' Party in its budget to finance only one third of what is to be the State's share. In addition, half is assumed to be taken by the municipalities. However, in the municipal scheme of the Workers' Party, there has been no follow-up to free incomes that are not tied up to just these other investments. In other words, they assume that the municipalities will find the other half within their own framework. Then my point – when we hang on to the free SFO, which is funded by about one-third, and a number of others that are strongly underfunded in relation to what you have promised – is that it will be quite difficult to see that this will not go beyond the quality and content of Norwegian school, unless you intend to cut the elderly care, of course, or other core tasks out in the municipal sector to finance the election commitments of the Workers' Party. And when you're going to cooperate on the red-green side, you see that the collaboration with, for example, SV might lead to a doubling of the taxes. But in the same way as with the Workers' Party, it's not to recognize the bet. It is, of course, underfunded. And even though I expect that the representative Fagerås said it was wrong when she said it cost 100 million. kr in the week with practical-esthetic subjects, it is now once that the reform actually costs 11 billion. kr if one hour is to be spent throughout primary school. They've got 100 million in them. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1530	The representative, Roy Steffensen, had the word twice before and got the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1536	I chose to take the floor again after the representative Tvedt Solberg tried to present it as if it were the Workers' Party which is the big party when it comes to further and further training of teachers. I will again go back a little in time, to the previous government. At that time, the average number of teachers sent annually for further education and training was 1,500. In the 2013 election campaign, Trond Giske and Jens Stoltenberg traveled up to Trondheim and promised that in the next period they would be able to put in place 3,000 additional training each year. With this government, we've now had an average of 6,000 a year. It's going to be 6,050 teachers who are going to be in further and further education next year. A total of 34 000 teachers have received that offer with this government. So when 2020 is over, it's 40 000 teachers. It is a massive uplift, as the Education Association called for in the hearing in 2012. So it came with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1543	I have to say that I almost didn't think I heard correctly when the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand pointed out that the differences in school in Norway are smaller than in other comparable OECD countries, and that we can put this challenge aside. And I've checked: that's what was said. The fact is, there can be as much difference as a year of learning between the worst and the best school. A whole year's learning is a significant difference, and then it doesn't help much that the differences are smaller than in other countries. That we're not going to do anything about this, it seems incredible to me. But this might explain why the Center Party is so opposed to getting both the schools, the teachers and the school politicians, both local and national, the knowledge we all need to ensure that all students are an equivalent and good school wherever they live in Norway, and no matter what school they go to. They clearly believe that this is not something we're going to care about, that we can put it all the way down. I also want to comment on the contributions that several of the opposition have made here today, on the priority of school food and physical activity. Now my colleague Kent Gudmundsen took it and ran through the numbers for school food, so I won't do it again, but the fact is that the Workers' Party doesn't put the money on the table. School food for all schoolchildren in Norway was the main part of the Labour Party in the election campaign, and then they should actually put in enough money to get everyone to do it, and not try to get away with a trial project where they only fund a small proportion — and only a small proportion of the share they say they should — and push the bill over to the municipalities. For me, the question is, what's the most important thing? 97 pst. of all primary school children have school food, and very many in high school. Then it's wrong to spend a lot of money on this, when we should bet on quality in school. The same is true of physical activity. The funds have been added here, covering only 1.5 pst. of the total cost. This is crumbs. Finally, I would like to comment on Mr Asphjell's comments on the profession. The government has and has had a large investment in professional science over several years and has spent many hundred million dollars on it. To claim that little money is spent on professional matters is simply strange to hear. And I want to repeat what I said during my previous post: it's easy for parties to say that they're paying professionally when they're using Monopoly money and sending the tax bill to the companies, the companies that are going to afford to hire apprentices. It must be awkward to go so high on the track, knock on the chest and say that this is what we bet on, when you either don't deposit money, or send the bill to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1554	Now there are some statements that have come here, which are in their place to answer. I get to start with the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, who claims that the Center Party cuts down teachers' specialists and cutters in the test regime without seeing any bets. But then, of course, I have to say that one should not read much more until one finds many bets in the Central Party's alternative state budget, among other things. to students and their learning environment. The representative Kristensen is startled that differences in school are something I don't want to spend on PISA. My point is that we have completely different input into that question. After all, the center party has a fantasizing that we want schools close to people all over the country. Of course, it is also a quality advantage, because we believe that access to education is a good thing and is important for the welfare state of Norway. We believe that the teacher's density and qualified teachers of all these schools are also an important preoccupation for the students to get a good learning environment. The students say themselves, among other things. through the School Professionals and the Change Factory, that security of learning is one of the most important things they need and demand. This is what the Center Party will follow up. Reducing the test regimen is part of this. Regrettably, the right view of the students as material on a assembly line, which measures, tests, adjusts and forwards the parts on the production line. As far as teacher specialists are concerned, we are also well inside, because the money should go to ensure qualified teachers and recruitment rather than setting a new goal, new ambitions, which seems almost unrealistic when we know how much the need for qualified teachers is already today. Then it is the representative, Synnes, who criticises the centre party's cut in EEA funds: then it is good to know that we can participate in the Horizon and Erasmus programmes independently of this membership. It is good that research and international cooperation take place worldwide. Fortunately, the representative of the Right shares the view of the Centre that funding for education and research is important. Therefore, the Centre Party wishes to turn the grant to higher education institutions more into basic funding, because it is it that ensures that one receives the activity that is a prerequisite for quality and that Norway is taken further. We also spend more money on research institutes than the government, because that's what enables us to make use of the research. Access to education across the country is one of the benefits we'll continue to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1569	The representative Fagerås says that right-hand numbers. My question to the representative was how many hours of practical-esthetic subjects and physical activity in the week that is in this budget, because it is a little unclear in the SV's budget. I read from the budget: ‘In this budget, we start the full-time schooling effort by introducing an additional hour into one of the practical and aesthetic subjects, and by offering a free and voluntary cultural schooling course for students from 1 to 4. steps. For the 5-7 students. we will increase the time for school practice with teachers, so that students can have free lessons when they come home.’» I can't read from any of these sentences that it only applies to the fourth grade, as the representative Fagerås said. Calculations by the Ministry of Knowledge show that one additional hour per day in all pre- and post-work classes will cost 11.5 billion. kr, as I said. The representative, Andersen, says they're strengthening the municipalities by 6 billion. kr, but SEK 6.9 billion. kr is already spent on Fagerås’ promise of 100,000 extra pay for all teachers. And they say nothing about dyslexia or early effort in their budget. I wonder what they'll bet on there. To the Centre Party on the EEA and Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+: EEA membership is an entrance ticket to be included. It's not given that we get to be on the same premises as today. Norway is much stronger than the countries that are completely outside an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1583	I was quite happy now, I. I think it was very nice to discover that the government parties have read the Workers' Party's alternative budget. That's good reading, although it's obviously unfamiliar to the Right-Representatives with such large numbers on a education budget. That's because the Workers' Party prioritises education more than government parties do. That's why it's possible to bet on both school food — which we don't spend a single penny on the school budget, it's funded on the health budget as a public health measure — and on the SFO and early intervention. We're using 1.4 billion. NOK more for early effort, SEK 626 million. SEK more for kindergartens, 250 million. kr more for professional subjects. That's why we can start introducing school food and start introducing free SFOs. That's because we're prioritizing different than the government. But I have to admit, it's a little difficult to get wise on the government parties. Many times in recent years we have heard from the Right in particular that they lack the responsible Labour Party because we have offensive efforts in alternative budgets. Today we are told that we are too responsible when we start the introduction instead of introducing, for example. free school food overnight in all the country's schools. I find it difficult to get wise on the government parties. When the representative Synne's emblem wave from the Right is out criticising the ABE reform, it's all right, but when the Workers' Party criticises the ABE reform, it's all of a sudden irresponsible. When the Workers' Party wants to invest in intensive training after 4th grade, right goes in fistula – they did it at least last year. When they even say they want to evaluate the same thing, it's obviously all right. I find it hard to understand that ten years ago, the Right and Advance Party representatives were cracilian because of what they thought was a resting point in the research budget, but when the research share now goes down, under their rule, it is referred to as an offensive effort. One would almost think that they had motives other than to discuss the real content of the policy. I would like the government parties to use as much resources and energy to solve the real challenges, as we lack almost 6,000 nurses around the country already today. The SSB says that the lack of nurses is going to increase too. This should be met with a strong commitment in the field of study. Or for the lack of teachers and that the use of unqualified has increased the guard of government parties: there is nothing more important for students' learning than having a good qualified teacher in the classroom. In too many classrooms, there is no qualified teachers on this government's watch. I should also like the same care to be shown, for example. for families with children – who have to pay more and more years to have their child in kindergarten – as shown for the country’s millionaires.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1594	The representative Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1599	I'm very proud to be part of a party that has fought for the right to secondary education, the right to kindergarten – all of these things that the others come after. I am absolutely sure that when we get to work a little bit more – we have also contributed to the teaching norm – time will show that both school food, more of aesthetics and physical activities we will also win with, because that is common sense, and because it is good school. Also in our budget, there is 390 million on the health budget. kr for school food. I understand that this committee does not look across the budgets, but we have to do that. Then I get a little worried when many people ask questions about these numbers, because what we do in SV is that we write letters to the Ministry of Finance and ask: What does that cost? We get answers back from the Ministry of Finance, and we take those numbers for good fish. I really do believe that the Stortinget can do that, that the Ministry of Finance is not running and giving us wild numbers – then we have a serious problem. But I'm afraid that's what's going on, because the local government sector is totally underfunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1606	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1611	To the representative Henriksen: the big numbers I'm most concerned about are those who are not in this budget this year, but who are obviously going to be in the budgets later, and who are going to be sent to the municipalities, who already have enough to give priority to good teachers, early efforts and special education. So I want to be clear to the representative Karin Andersen: the innovation is a result of our knowledge, our belief that the school should both form and educate, and that good teachers can vary the teaching and equip students to a society that changes. Unlike SV claims, SV and Right have not disagreed that teachers can use different methods, play-based learning. Children are different and teach in different ways. The difference between SV and Right is that SV is primarily interested in detailing how teachers teach, while the Right is concerned about knowing that the students also learn. We are concerned with the transparency that the students who are struggling get the follow-up, and that it is not kept secret because it is best for the local politicians in a municipality. Professional renewal will ensure that more people get varied in practical teaching, but it also depends on the fact that teachers are professionally up-to-date. [[President clubs]] That's what we give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1618	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1623	I would like to comment on a few of the attacks that have occurred on the Central Party during the debate. I can't really say I think part of what has been said is so very surprising. It's pretty predictable, but I still think it's important to comment on it. One concerns research and training programmes within the EU and the EEA Agreement. – No, it is not the EEA Agreement that is the entrance ticket to those programmes. What is the entrance ticket to the programmes is the money Norway spends. Norway can contribute that money regardless of whether we are in the EEA or not. If Norway had deposited that money when we were not a member of the EEA, we would have had the chance to participate in those research programmes and education programmes, I think that's pretty clear. Trying to categorize the Centre Party to oppose research and education cooperation with EU countries because we are not in favour of the EEA Agreement, I do not believe there is any real basis for doing so. Then I would like to comment briefly on what has been said in the debate on free choice of school. It's really not free school choices the government wants to introduce. It's character-based school choices the government will introduce. The government is even so keen on the fact that the Christian People's Party has long before the hearing period has expired, warns that this will be knocked through. Before the hearing replies have been received, before one has listened to those concerned in the case, the majority of the parties indicate what they wish to do. There are a number of states that believe that this is not appropriate for their territory, and the reasons why there are many. One of the reasons why they do not want this central requirement for a character-based intake may be that the situation in the different regions is different. In my state, for example. there are at least 3 to 4 miles between each secondary school, and whose character-based admission is valid, low grade students can actually be forced to commute far, maybe move, to go to high school — so that freedom of choice applies to those with good grades. The center party is also concerned with having a free school choice, but we want to introduce those living in the community with community scores, so they don't get into a situation where they're going to have to move or commute far to go to high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1641	There are many things that have been raised in the debate, and that I am tempted to comment, both on kindergarten, school and SFO. I think we will have ample opportunity to do so in future debates in this Chamber as well. What I think is a little important to correct, is the picture that is produced here by the government's commitment to research and higher education. Since the accession of this government, R & D appropriations for the State budget have increased by 12.5 billion. kr. It's also like 2020 is the fifth year in a row with over 1 pst. of GDP to R & D above the State budget. This happened for the first time in 2016, so it shows that there is a completely different rate for R & D efforts with today's government than we had with the red-green ones. We are following up all the escalation plans contained in the long-term research plan, in this state budget. There is an increase in the number of places of study, and there is a strong focus on research in the university sector, not least in research and development in industry. There is no doubt that this is a government that is in charge of research and higher education and that provides very important replenishment for innovation and transformation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1648	I have been a member of the Oslo City Council for the last eight years, and there we discussed kindergartens, the prioritisation of kindergartens and primary schools, and because Oslo is also a county, we often discussed high school – it's a municipal and county responsibility. Then I came here to Stortinget and had to ask my fractional leader: has something happened lately that I haven't understood? Is it no longer the county councils that run secondary schools, and the municipalities that run primary schools and kindergartens? I was told that there was no change. But this assembly is discussing as if it were the Stortinget which in detail prioritised municipal budgets and county budgets. I'm witnessing that the opposition is criticizing the government. But after the last local elections, both the Central Party and the Labour Party have done quite well in the elections, so if the Labour Party and the Centre are dissatisfied with how primary schools, secondary schools and kindergartens are run in this country, it's just to do something about it, because they have a lot of the majority and the rapporteurs, who are responsible for prioritising municipal budgets and county budgets. They must be very annoyed at their own party members and trusted in county councils and municipalities and really dare not say it as it is. They shall, as well, try to leave it to the governmental parties and the government that are responsible for the failure of Labour Party rapporteurs and Central Party rapporteurs and their respective majority in local government to give proper priority. I really think the discharge they carry out is a pretty amazing experience. But I see in the future that we are now gradually getting reports from the different municipalities and county municipalities – the opposition parties here in Stortinget, which got a majority in Kommune-Norway – that in many of the municipalities that are now run by the red-green majority, all the problems in kindergartens and schools that we are talking about here will actually be solved, because that is a priority task. And as Guri Melby also said, municipal and county economics have grown under this government, so you can't blame it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1659	Torstein Tvedt Solberg has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1664	I just want to remind the representative Hagen that it is the Stortinget that grants the municipal frameworks, and will actually recommend that the representative take a meeting with the KS and hear a little more about the consequences of the government's poor municipal arrangements outside the country. It is also important to note that the concern expressed by the right-wing representatives about the Labour Party's policy continues. It sounds as if the right-wing representatives almost feel it was a pity that the Labour Party did not win the election, and that one would wish it was our alternative budget that was adopted today. First of all, I think that this rhetoric reveals a well-known strategy, that the Right rather talks about others to hide weaknesses and a boring budget without a profile that the government is presenting. Then I notice that the state councils do not have any rest in writing Christmas cards. I hope they now participate at the end of the debate. I am pleased that the Minister of Higher Education has signed up, and I also hope that the Council of State Sanner will report at the end of the debate and share in defending his budget and some of the challenges he has received from the opposition in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1675	I take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good debate. I think the representative Guri Melby did a good job right now in explaining what the situation for research and higher education actually is. This government has made a significant boost, and there is a completely different drive in research and development now than it has been in the past. It is also absolutely necessary, because our universities and our colleges play a key role when it comes to ensuring a sustainable welfare society and the green shift for the country in the years to come. We operate in an international market when it comes to research and higher education. It is also absolutely necessary, because the world is facing some totally formidable challenges, where the climate crisis is the greatest of them all. If we don't work together across national borders, if our smart heads don't come together with the smart heads of other countries, we won't succeed. Then we can't solve the big challenges the world is facing. That's also why I took the floor, because the representative Marit Arnstad made it sound like it didn't have anything to say about the kind of connection Norway has to Europe. This is wrong, because it has a huge impact on Norway’s relationship to Europe. The field of research is an example of that, and I believe that brexit is for terror and warning. I haven't met a single person who works in research and higher education in the United Kingdom, who thinks it's a good idea to leave the European Community. It is not that we are automatically given the right to participate in the framework programmes that the EU has. Personally, I have spent quite a lot of time lobbying with my colleagues in the EU, where my crown argument has been that it is the EEA Agreement that guarantees us the right to participate in the full range of programmes presented by the EU. One of the most important programmes in the coming years is the new Horizon Europe Framework Programme. We feel like we're getting through with that argument right there. It is clear that the Stortinget will decide whether we are going to participate, and whether we are willing to put the money on the table, but it is the EEA Agreement that guarantees us the right to join that programme. Without that EEA agreement, we also weaken our links in research and higher education. Then we weaken our ability to contribute to solving the major problems and challenges facing the world. So I'm very concerned that we still need strong European cooperation in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1688	It is very easy to agree that research is international, that the research arena is almost a global arena. There's no one on this pulpit who hasn't said that, sail if the Right probably wants to place the Center Party, in some kind of prejudice that they have against us, in terms of the degree of internationalization of research. Obviously, research is international. Obviously, there was a struggle that the red-green government led to prevent the Moser environment in Trondheim from moving to Cambridge or Berkeley. Of course we did. We usually know that research by its very nature is international. But I insist that the entry ticket to the EU programmes is still the money we contribute. It's also because we get less output than what we input – it's just net for the EU. I think that also has a little bit to say in this context. Otherwise there was an interesting post from the representative Carl I. Hagen. Yeah, it's the counties that run the schools. I thought that Carl I. Hagen might continue to say that now the states are not going to get anything central dictated by four parties in the Storting about a character-based recording, which they do not want, but that was not said. I believe that if he really believes that this is the responsibility of the counties and municipalities, we must also avoid making a central dictatorship that is swept down the heads of the states of the four parties in the government when it comes to the question of character-based recording. Clearly, it is a dilemma for the counties that the majority in this room promise a standard of teachers who cost money and who are to be paid by the counties. It is a dilemma for the counties that we are now adopting vocational plans to be financed by the counties, but no money has been allocated to them at the same time. For the counties, not only do they have their own income, some of them have very little income. They depend on the framework transfers that come from the country, and it is the framework transfers that are out of proportion to the promises made by the majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1699	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1704	A short comment to perhaps solve some ambiguities: To the representative Arnstad at the end here, I just want to make sure that we have a character-based admission to higher education already. But that's not why I took the word. I think it's a little strange to hear SV standing on the speaker's chair here and saying that the problem has been the figures from the Ministry of Finance. No, the problem is not the figures from the Ministry of Finance. The problem is how much money you put into your alternative budgets to meet the commitments you have made there. And it's just as much about the Workers' Party. Then – to repeat it – my point is that one is going to burden the municipal sector when one has to pay one's own share in order to take part in the promises made in this Chamber, parties talking about local democracy. It's going to go out on something, and it's probably school that's being hit. I would like to remind you that the municipal economy is good, and that we have a historically low number of municipalities on the ROBEK list. So it's not the municipal economy it's on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1713	Let me first thank the representative Tvidt Solberg for calling for even more speaking time from the Right and the Government's good budget. I'm going to do that, but I also want to point out that more people have talked about the proportion of unqualified teachers in school. Let me be quite clear: our clear goal is for all students in all classrooms to meet qualified teachers. That is why I am very pleased that since 2013, there have been 2,500 more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. It's good for the school, and it's not least good for the students. Then we have a budget where we've prioritised the most important thing. We give priority to new learning resources to follow up the innovation. Marit Arnstad asks – what about the counties? The counties have been funded to exchange textbooks every three years. This means that the counties have financed the need for new learning resources. We have a bet on the SFO, so that more children from low-income families can get an SFO offer. We ensure that the professional professions are raised through both equipment scholarships and more equipment. We are committed to the reform of competences Learn throughout our lives, where we now also have a new industry programme. But it is obvious that the Workers' Party is uncomfortable that we point to the weaknesses of their knowledge policy. Together with the left side, we are actually asked to turn off the light, to cut both in national samples and in PISA. For us, it is important that we get the knowledge and information that is also contained in the international comparisons. For me, it is important to know that almost one in four Norwegian boys, 15 years old, has problems reading. This means that we get important knowledge that enables us to take the necessary action. It is obvious that the working party is uncomfortable that we point out that they have not been too intensively trained for between 1 and 4. Class of reading, writing and calculating, and that we also point out that they are in continuing training in nuclear subjects. These are important debates that show some of the political divisions between the government parties and the left of the Norwegian school. I am sure that we will have good opportunities to discuss it in 2020 as well. Let me conclude in the spirit that the two councils have also spent some time writing Christmas cards while we listened to the good debate. On behalf of the Council of State Nybø and myself, I wish the entire Education and Research Committee a really good Christmas. We look forward to new, important debates in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1726	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1732	At first, I want to talk a little bit about the election that has been. There is no doubt that this year's local and county elections partly shaken some of the political environment in Norway. The government parties went back sharply, and the opposition knows that we have been given a strengthened mandate to stand here and maintain our criticism. Some of that criticism is precisely that we need to keep working in order for tasks to be transferred from central government to local government. We should not be surprised that if a decision is taken on a national admission scheme to high school, it happens at the same time and in spite of the fact that both the Home and the Week have gone to elections and concluded platforms with admission to high school as an important matter. Trøndelag and Oslo investigator, Westland gets tough conversions in high school, and Troms and Finnmark and others are in the middle of this. Trust is the solution. Thank you for the debate and Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1739	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1756	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for the replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1763	Just to quickly take what was said at the end of the last case about wishing us good Christmas already December 6th: I realize that it must be comfortable for the council, but I hope he can cancel the Christmas holiday and come and discuss the sustainable curriculum next week. Otherwise, when the debate goes on, we see that we were almost going to evaluate whether the budget debates started with the short comments, and then we finally got the longer speeches, because it's reviving the debate. I'm not going to spend that long. Today’s legislative proposal is intended to facilitate both quality, innovation and development in the education sector. Institutional accreditation as a criterion will contribute to a structure with stronger institutions also in the private sector. At the same time, the law is flexible and opens up transitional arrangements and derogations for those schools that do not fit in with the A4 format. Private schools have an important role in society. They contribute to the quality and diversity of pupils and students and to the innovation and development of better education provision. In this way, public schools and universities are challenging and inspiring to deliver even better offers. Many private schools aim to develop more practical education and effective training products for the business market. For the Progress Party, it is important to provide these spaces and support to develop both educationally and commercially. Such schools will often be small. The exemption rule in the law ensures that even small and exclusive educational institutions can receive state aid, whether the quality is good enough. The exemption rule also ensures that it will be possible to launch new offers in the education sector in the future. It's not necessarily that big is always best. The Progress Party will have a diverse university and higher education sector that facilitates innovation and creativity, and we believe that this law is well-managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1778	At first sight, this legislative amendment proposal seems to be reliable. In the Workers' Party, we are of course in order to impose high quality requirements on private institutions, but we see in more detail that this amendment could have undesirable consequences. We are therefore going to vote against the proposal, because the amendment of the law involves a significant restriction on access to state funding, and then as legislators we have to assess what it is that we are at risk of shutting down. There is reason to note, we believe, that, in the view of the Department, the proposal will stimulate a structure with fewer and stronger institutions in private higher education. Does it sound familiar? There is reason to look over the shoulder and learn from the overall lessons learned from the changes in the structure of public higher education. The Communication on the paper Quality Concentration not only lifted the quality objective but also the need for a diverse university sector contributing to mobility, cooperation and division of labour and to the maintenance of professional specialisation. – I said the university sector, but I mean the university sector. It is, without exaggerating, not the entire phase of the structural reform that it has ensured the differentiated education provision around what Norway needs. We in the Workers' Party see that the proposed intensification could counteract a desired but already weakened diversity in higher education. We do not want to take structural measures that weaken the complex and decentralised provision of higher education in Norway, and we are not convinced that the proposed derogation in the amendment will be sufficient to ensure such diversity. A requirement for institutional accreditation will be difficult to meet for entirely new and small education. Such a requirement will dampen innovative training initiatives that typically arise in entrepreneurial environments, small professional environments, nor does such a requirement create room for small and special education in institutions that cannot or will not necessarily aim to grow. So we in the Workers' Party believe that there is a general need for better incentives for a more complex, diverse higher education, decentralised, and we do not want to support the legalisation of the requirement for institution accreditation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1789	I take the floor to add a little more than what the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee said here. I would like to add that several of the private colleges that receive State grants have themselves been the drivers for the State to impose stricter requirements on them and more in line with the state institutions. The proposal has been endorsed by several of the institutions concerned. There should be high quality in order to receive government grants, which the institutions themselves agree to. At the same time, we are committed to pointing out that the requirement of institution accreditation should not contribute to structuralisation. The Ministry believes that it will stimulate a structure with fewer and stronger institutions, so we are concerned about the follow-up to developments here. Indeed, legislative changes may limit the possibility of state funding. Although institutional accreditation is not to trigger the grants automatically, the requirement would be to sort out who is applying for and which apprenticeships receive grants. NOW stated that the use of resources is likely to exceed the quality gain, and the Senterpartie assumes that the Ministry will monitor the situation of the private higher education institutions and the use of resources in comparison with other considerations. We do not want to weaken the diversity of higher education. The centre party will not support structural interventions that weaken the complex and decentralised supply of Norwegian higher education. However, I agree with the proposal to treat state and private institutions equally, provided that the derogation becomes real and ensures professional breadth. We stress that the aim is to ensure the quality of education provision. If the institutions have to make costly adjustments that are overly useful, this has to be followed up and the requirements for obtaining accreditation have to be assessed. We will prevent centralisation in the sector, and what requirements are imposed on the accreditation of institutions and offers are crucial for their implementation. The structural reform of higher education shows the need for an assessment of accreditation requirements, in order to ensure a better division of labour in the sector and the ability to provide institutions with a broad societal mandate. With this reservation, we are behind the majority position: the centre party is committed to having a wide range of education services composed of both smaller and larger institutions and studies in both public and private circles.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1804	Higher education is about forming and educating the labour force of the future at a high level. In order to ensure development and value creation, the Christian People's Party will give priority to investment in knowledge and quality, while at the same time ensuring the autonomy of the sector. Therefore, there has been an important signal for the Christian People's Party in this process that several of the private colleges that are currently receiving state grants have themselves been the drivers for the state to impose as stringent quality requirements on them as on state institutions. In the proposal for the amendment of the law of the university and higher education law on the conditions of state subsidies to private universities, we are legislating a general rule on the institution's accreditation as a condition for private universities to receive state subsidies. With the institution's accreditation as a criterion for receiving state grants, as we have understood, it will be eight institutions from the old scheme that do not meet the new grant requirements. Therefore, we believe it is important to have a good transition period, so that those we already know are in a process of merging with a larger private college or assessing other opportunities, are given plenty of time to do so, and that the others are given the opportunity to go through an accreditation process. Although trade unions merge and institutions merge, it is important that there should still be diversity. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore necessary for each educational institution to be given the opportunity to maintain and further develop its specificity, not least in order to meet local and regional needs for knowledge and competence. We therefore expect the Council of State to take this into account in the further follow-up to the bill. A diverse university and higher education sector is important. We are confident that the Department will follow-up the higher education institutions covered by this, with a view to providing institutions currently receiving grants with reasonable transitional arrangements in order to meet the new institutional accreditation requirements. We're of the opinion that five years gives the individual the opportunity that they should have to put this in place. Private higher education is an important part of the Norwegian education system. Societies will have a growing need in the future for the groups of professions to which the private higher education institutions are also training. We believe it is important that private universities be able to develop their identity and build further skills in the areas in which they will provide. It is therefore necessary to provide for an exceptional provision to ensure the continued possibility of state grants for higher education institutions with only accredited study offers without having them at institutional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1817	The government considers that there is reason to impose high standards on the quality of private colleges receiving state subsidies. All State institutions currently have such institutional accreditation and the proposed amendments to the grant scheme are intended to enhance the quality of private higher education and to increase the level of expectations of private and state higher education institutions. The government therefore proposes to legislate for private colleges to have institutional accreditation in order to receive state grants. The legislative proposal means that the requirements for receiving State subsidies for private universities are tightened compared to current legislation. However, this amendment does not aim at the inclusion of fewer educational institutions in the grant scheme, the purpose of which is to increase the requirements for the receipt of State grants. Today, private universities play an important role in higher education in Norway, and they will continue to do so in the future. These are institutions that contribute to education and knowledge that are important to society, and many of the private colleges have education that is very important for the welfare country's professions. The private higher education institutions represent an important alternative to the state institutions. Robust and solid professional environments in higher education are important. At the same time, the government believes it is important to maintain diversity in the Norwegian university and higher education sectors. Therefore, creativity and innovation must be facilitated. The Government therefore proposes an exceptional mechanism to allow small and specialised private institutions with high quality education services to receive government grants without being accredited to institutions. I would like to end by saying that the private higher education sector itself has been a strong driver of the change that the government has now proposed, and that the proposal was widely supported in the hearing. I am therefore also pleased with the recommendation of the Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1835	The amendment proposes an exception provision where it will be possible to seek funding from institution accreditation, provided that there is ‘specific social needs’. However, the general rule is that institutions should always be the framework for private higher education. This amendment will eventually result in limitations in today's diverse landscapes, which also include education that is close to the students, close to their community, studies that do not need or want institutional growth. What I'm going to ask the Council of State is whether she can assure us that this, quite distinctly, constraint provides the possibility of state funding, which the bill involves. Can she assure us that it will still not prevent the diversity of higher education as it is a national goal to ensure, so that in future we will also be able to train people throughout the country to a wide range of professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1842	I feel a certain need to stress that there are some major obstacles today for private institutions to come under this funding mechanism. Because it does not happen automatically; it has to be lifted up politically. The framework needs to be increased and they need to receive the grant from the Storting through the budget. Many higher education institutions have experienced — and are experiencing — this as a significant obstacle. This will continue to be the case – that it is up to the Stortinget to decide who will receive the State grant. What I can assure the representative is that the intention behind the derogation is exactly what the representative is concerned about. We want to ensure that we continue to have a diversity and a breadth in the private sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1849	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer, and then Stortinget will notice that intention. But if the Council of State is so sure that this does not introduce a structuralisation that weakens the diversity of the sector, I would like to hear a little more about how she generally sees that it can be ensured. For we have recently seen that Norway is losing less education, e.g. on the Helgeland coast, although there is a need for local and national education. I am not convinced that this government sees overall social responsibility to ensure diversity in the sector, so I would like to hear: what concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure the diversity of the higher education sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1857	As I also said in my post, it is largely the private part of the sector itself that has been the driver of this change, and one of the reasons why that is that they do not want it to be an A-layer and a B-layer in the sector. We're going to have good public institutions, and we're going to have good private institutions. That is why they are also concerned that we should also make high demands on the private sector in order for them to receive State subsidies. But that is exactly the exception that is the concrete measure to ensure that we still have a broad range in our sector. Having a certain size of an educational institution may be important enough in itself, but it is both education and institutions that do not aim to become very large, precisely because there is no need to educate so many. That is why we need such an exception – in order for them too to receive State aid in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1862	Earlier in the autumn, students and employees at the Nordic School of Art and Film Science in Kabelvåg were informed that the financing of the institution was in the process of being wound up. Further operations are at risk. Nordic arts and film schools are the only education institution in Norway that offers Bachelor's education in moving pictures, a school that crosses film and visual arts. The reason why the school has come into this situation is that the school has gone from being a vocational school to becoming a college. Yes, I know that the minister is well informed about this matter and has been in Kabelvåg and visited the institution. I'm very happy about that, and I really appreciate the commitment. Could this school be able to benefit from the exception of this amendment? And will the Minister do his job to enable the school to come under this exemption scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1869	This is a school with an exciting study offer. They ended up in this disability when they went from being a vocational school — with the support of a vocational school — to becoming a college, a private college owned by the county. It is important for me to stress that there is no goal for the government to make colleges. We are engaged in the technical school sector and that there should be good, solid vocational schools around the country. But now they've made a choice, they've moved that way and they want to be a college. They are then a private college in the same way as other private colleges, and must be chosen — and taken into the state budget — in order to come under such a scheme. So ask the representative if such an exception would be for them. I can't now say that they will get an exception. They have to apply, and then that matter has to be dealt with, but the purpose of the exception is that we should still be able to have smaller colleges, which give us a breadth in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1876	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1891	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1903	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 16, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to come back to Stortinget for the integration of sustainable development in the provision of continuing education for teachers.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1935	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, on the basis of the evaluations carried out, to return to the Storting with a plan for a new and improved student allowances programme from the global south, and an assessment of the need for adjustment in the Panorama strategy.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e1952	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-14 and 17 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the possibility of establishing several national or national vocational training courses and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a contingency plan for the construction and rehabilitation of swimming facilities, including proposals for financing, inter alia, through the interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings and swimming facilities, and to return to the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget, so that all students achieve the skill objectives set for swimming and life-saving training in primary schools.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify the real equipment needs at schools in order to meet all the curriculum objectives and the relevance of vocational training, with a view to introducing a top-level funding for specific resource-intensive training programmes.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive assessment of the need for new public higher education schools in the years to come, including a stepping-up plan for new public higher education places.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an investigation into the working conditions and career development of researchers across the research sector.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget for 2020, to draw up an investment plan, a staging mechanism for investments, and major construction and maintenance projects of buildings in the university and higher education sectors.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive efforts to address the challenges that hamper or halt new student housing projects. To the extent that climate requirements favour projects, this is assumed to be compensated, or otherwise prevented, for example by an increased cost framework.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of economic and legal barriers for foreign students and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for simplification.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify the legislation on the work of students abroad, and to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, proposing that foreign students be able to work alongside the studies without risking losing their place in the Norwegian population’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure the future development of the project Campus Kristiansund, and to return to Stortinget with a case where possible compensation for rental costs.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote its own case for the Grand Duchy in relation to the student’s conduct of studies and, in the submission, to do its best for the assessments and consequences of the amended conversion scheme in the conversion of loans into student scholarships.’; Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to the Storing for changes to schemes under the Loan Fund to stimulate lifelong learning and to present the cost and benefits of these proposals.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary adjustments to the secondary education grant scheme because it is important that high-density students in the fields of study for protective equipment or other equipment/materials necessary to follow the training are fully covered.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive package of measures to make it easier to be a student with children.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks it to evaluate the accumulated red tape and efficiency cut in the university and higher education sectors, with particular regard to the impact on the quality and research activity.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e2043	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the effects of the Student Support Conversion Scheme introduced by the 2019 State Budget to determine whether and to what extent the scheme affects the study progress and the degree of completion.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e5228	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e5233	Let's do the voting again. Things might suggest that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e5291	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e5303	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e5317	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-06.ana.ud125e5343	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
