ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e78	The representatives Ketil Kjeseth, Grunde Almeland, Hege Haukeland Liadal and Liv Signe Navarsete, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm For Hedmark County: Per Martin Sandtrøen For Hordaland County: Sigurd Hille and Laila Marie Reiertsen For the Nordic counties: Kjell-Idar Juvik and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen For Telemark County: Olav Urbø Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg from 5 March to 9 March to take part in a trip with the Delegation of the Storting to the Parliamentary Partnership Asia-Europe, ASEP, to Singapore and Indonesia from the representative of Une Bastholm on sick leave from 5 March until further notice by the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Alexander Stokkebø from 5 March onwards and until further notice of the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative for the Lib Signe Navarsete on 6 and 7 March to attend the Conference on the Monitoring of EU Foreign, Security and Defence Policy, in Bucuresti Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Julia Wong, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg for welfare reasons. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Une Bastholm, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Kristoffer Robin Haug March 5th and until further notice For Rogaland County: Tom Kalsås 5–7. March and Trine Danielsen 5 March and until further notice For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness 6–7. March
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e194	Kristoffer Robin Haug, Tom Kalsås and Trine Danielsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e205	The representative, Kristoffer Robin Haug, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e210	On behalf of myself – and the Green Party on the Environment – I would like to make a proposal to stop insect death and a proposal to make the system of user-led personal assistance real to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e215	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e220	On behalf of the big business representatives Petter Eide and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to give the state an obligation to cover the financial losses that the claim has caused to persons under protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e225	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e231	On behalf of myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for immediate action on dangerous vehicle combinations on Norwegian roads and a proposal for a ban on labour renting from non-production enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e236	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e243	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Svein Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e265	The Presidency is pleased to present to the representatives the proposal for two amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure. The amendments will remove the requirement that proposals and questions to the government be physically signed by the person making the proposal or asking the question. The starting point for the amendments is that there will be a new technical solution for the batch and committee portals which the representatives, groups and administration will benefit from when proposals are put forward, submitted questions and interpellations, or submitted comments to the committee's committees. This is a central working tool for representatives, and a more user-friendly solution has been requested. The system also needs to adapt to a reality where most people work more mobilely than before. Paragraph 38 of the Rules of Procedure states today that proposals cannot be signed by more than ten representatives. In addition, Section 70 states that all questions with written answers should be signed by the asker himself. There are no specific rules on signature of other types of questions, but it has been suggested that the Rules of Procedure have a signature as an annex here as well. The new solution will allow electronic identification of the sender of proposals and questions. By removing the signature requirement, a more flexible way of working for representatives will be provided. This is, in the opinion of the Presidency, a response to the needs of the representatives of the day-to-day situation in the United Kingdom. It has been discussed whether to require proposals and questions to be submitted by the representatives themselves. The Presidency does not wish to include such a premise in the Rules of Procedure. Today, questions and suggestions can also be submitted to the administration of the membership of the groups, and the rules should also open up for further assistance from the party groups. It is clear that the right to ask questions or to make proposals only applies to the representatives, and this right cannot be delegated to others. That being said, I see it most as a practical question of who will contact the administration. In the case of matters relating to the presidency under Section 69 of the Rules of Procedure, it is natural, until further notice, to maintain the signature requirement, since such matters are in practice a letter to the Presidency. Otherwise, I refer to the comments in the settings and recommendations of a unified presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e296	What is Norwegian foreign policy, right now, an early morning a Tuesday in March 2019? The embassy in Accra helps a Norwegian company that wants to enter the Ghanaian market. In Brussels, our NATO ambassador reports on vessel movements in the Atlantic. In a refugee camp north of Jordan, a Norwegian-supported humanitarian organization distributes emergency aid to Syrian refugees. In New Delhi, the visa applications of an Indian manufacturing company going to the West to record a Bollywood film are dealt with. In Copenhagen, the embassy is preparing a forthcoming visit to the SSC of Storting. In Juba, we are contributing to the implementation of a peace agreement. The sum of these and thousands of other small and large tasks is Norwegian foreign policy. These events often have their own dynamics and are due to everything from alliance commitments entered into decades ago to budgetary decisions taken in December in the United Kingdom. Through this sum of single events, not least over time, Norway shows the values for which we stand. And through these actions, Norway shows us what we mean, what we want, and what we think the world should go. In recent years, international policies have been more alarmed and unpredictable. The waves are getting higher. The forward direction has become worse. But we see the contours of more classical power politics. At the same time, we must not fail to recognize the enormous progress made in the world over the last decades. Regularly, there is a debate about whether the world is really marked by progress, and that it is the great story of our time, or whether the turmoil is now so great and persistent that it is the challenges that characterise the time we live. The answer, of course, is that the picture is complex, and that the world has room for multiple megatrends at the same time. The progress is undisputable. In the last three decades there has been a huge increase in global value creation. Over 1 billion people have worked out of poverty. Living standards have increased dramatically, especially in Asia. Child mortality has fallen sharply. More people get better health. More and more girls are going to school. New technology continues to improve our everyday lives, give us new opportunities and tie people together in new ways. At the same time, we must recognise that the world in 2019 is different from 25 – or just 5 – years ago. Future optimism is not what it once was. Some of the concerns we feel now, I think, are linked to the great optimism of the 1990s. At that time many of us thought that democracy and human rights, free trade and freedom would continue to spread around the world, almost by themselves. It's the few people who believe today. Today, human rights are under pressure on all continents, including our own. In several countries, democracy and the rule of law are weakened, while authoritarian traits are strengthened. There is a trade conflict between the world's two largest economies. Economic globalisation has brought great benefits, but too many have done too little for those who have not reaped the benefits of economic growth. Populist flows have led to unexpected changes in several countries’ policies. Climate change impacts are increasingly affecting the world. Over 65 million people are fleeing. Most will remain internally displaced or migrate to their own neighbourhoods, but many will also be able to move towards Europe. The number of armed conflicts has been on a downward curve for several decades, but has increased somewhat in recent years. Digitalisation is becoming increasingly important for key functions in society, from health to transport, but it also creates new vulnerability, including for our national security. This development is taking place against a backdrop of shifts in power and reduced international cooperation. Power shifts, mainly from west to east and mainly to Asia. Perhaps the longest chapter in future history books about our time will be about China's growth. This shift in power will affect the vast majority of foreign policy areas, both now and in the decades to come. Our continent's closest ally, the United States, is increasingly facing a forward-looking China. Even with our solid transatlantic anchoring, an increased tension between the United States and China will be demanding to deal with Norway and other European countries. We see increased scepticism, including among central allies, about the value of multilateral cooperation. The international framework built since 1945 has proved to be more brittle than we might have thought. The liberal world order has been emerging for a long time, but is now being challenged to a greater extent, among other things. because countries with a different value base gain greater influence. Changes in global power conditions have rarely been peacefully separated through history. Friction is natural. But history also shows that diplomacy, ideas and initiative benefit, and it affects the course of history. Because while the world is more troubled, we are facing major global challenges that no country can solve alone. All of this makes greater demands on our own foreign policy. It is often said that the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy are fixed. One of these, for which there is broad support in Stortinget, is working for a better organized world. And just "A Better Organized World" was the title of a book that one of my predecessors, Knut Frydenlund, wrote. The UN, NATO, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the World Trade Organisation, the International Criminal Court: these organisations – and I could have mentioned many more – are not just organisations of which we are a member. Norway contributed to the founding of all these organisations. Norway has not been a passive spectator of the emergence of the rule-based world order. We have been – and are – an active participant in creating and building it. We have done that because it is in Norwegian interest. We've done that because the right is going to go ahead of power. We have done so because a world of common rules creates predictability and stability, and that is in the interests of both small and large countries in the long run. International obligatory cooperation is under pressure today. In almost all areas that are important to Norway, we are dependent on cooperation with other countries. This will therefore be a main theme of the presentation. In spring, the government will present a major communication on Norway’s role and interests in the multilateral system. The Minister for Development aims to give a policy presentation. The UN is the central venue for the development of international rules of play. The UN's sustainability targets are real targets for governments worldwide. 2019 is the year when the UN Secretary-General’s reforms are being implemented – perhaps collectively the largest reforms in the history of the United Nations. Norway supports the reforms, both politically and economically, and we will be actively committed to the follow-up phase. We are a long-term partner in the UN peacekeeping operations. We contribute to four UN operations, including strengthening our efforts in MINUSMA in Mali with a transport aircraft in the autumn. New York is now negotiating on the follow-up to the Global Compact for Migration. The government bases its explanation of vote on this work. It is important to stress that the platform is not legally binding. We have initiated closer cooperation between Nordic and African countries to strengthen the international order. We see regional organisations like AU and ASEAN becoming more and more important actors. We are now intensifying the campaign to become a member of the Security Council for the years 2021-2022. The campaign is on track, but we are facing strong competition from Canada and Ireland for the two vacancies in the West Group. The elections will take place in June 2020. Norway presents itself as a candidate for the promotion of both national and global interests. We are in favour of promoting international law and the multilateral order that strengthens Norway's security and sovereignty. We stand as a candidate to take responsibility and strengthen our relations with countries within and outside the Council. Norway, as a small country with an open economy, has a core interest in ensuring that the major powers do not get along and that fundamental values and norms do not get confused. When the multilateral system is under pressure, it is important that we establish and defend the international legal order that has ensured our well-being, security and values for decades. At an alarming time, the government believes that Norway should sit at the table when taking international decisions related to peace and security. As a member of the Council, Norway wishes to contribute to the effective management of conflicts on the agenda of the Security Council through creative, active and bridge-building diplomacy. We will draw on our experience in peace and reconciliation processes, and we will focus on women's rights and participation. We will continue work on climate-related security challenges and we want to strengthen efforts to prevent conflicts. Sweden recently completed its period in the Security Council, and they showed that smaller countries can be constructive contributors. The Swedes secured a green light for humanitarian supplies across the Syrian border and support for a truce in strategically important areas in Yemen, to mention two examples. In recent years, the ten elected members of the council have used their position well and played a greater role. This will continue in Norway. 20 years after Norway last sat in the Security Council, it is true that we are again taking part in international responsibility. The benefits of obliging international cooperation may be easier to explain by referring to a defence alliance: an attack on one is an attack on all. That is the essence of NATO and the essence of Article 5. By being part of such a community, we are stronger. Our country is safer. The core is that we commit ourselves beyond our immediate self-interest. NATO has carried out major reforms since 2014. The result is that NATO is today better equipped to carry out its most important task: collective defence of the territory of the alliance. Russian use of power in violation of international law has weakened security in Europe, but in NATO it has led to a greater willingness to prioritize defence and increased emphasis on collective deterrence and defence. The NATO community of interests is strong. The value-added community is more under pressure. But that kind of tension is not a new phenomenon. Since 1949, the alliance has had to deal at regular intervals with sometimes deep political divisions among the Member States. It has been crucial for NATO to be able to focus on core tasks and face threats to the Member States in a credible way during those periods. In order to maintain coherence, it is important that NATO continues to be able to fulfil all three of its core tasks: collective defence, crisis management and security through cooperation. It requires a good balance between how the alliance deals with new and traditional threats and challenges in different geographical areas. Norway has long called for NATO to strengthen its attention to core collective defence tasks. The further development of NATO's command structure and maritime device, confirmed by the 2018 summit decisions, was the Norwegian initiative. They mean strengthening the alliance, not least in the North Atlantic, which is of great importance to us. Norway also places emphasis on participating in NATO operations addressing challenges in other areas, such as Afghanistan, because it is also important for our security. In NATO, the US strongly insists that European Allies and Canada contribute more to common security. It's not unreasonable. Since 2014, we have also seen a significant increase in efforts by the European side. The trend of falling defence budgets has been reversed in most Member States. It is important that this development is recognised. At the same time, increases must continue. It is important both for the cohesion of the alliance and for the defence. Norway is following up its decisions through the long-term defence plan, and our defence has been significantly strengthened in recent years. There has been a real increase in the defence budget of approx. 30 pst. since 2013. Since World War II, no country has been more important to Norway than the United States — our main ally, the guarantor of NATO’s defence capabilities, and the anchoring of a world order based on committed international cooperation. 'Present that the Creation' is called Dean Acheson's memoirs, who was American Foreign Minister in the years immediately after World War II. It is an appropriate title, not only because he was present when new organisations were established, but also because no other country has played a greater role in creating the new world order after 1945 than just the United States. Political changes in the United States currently affect foreign policy in the country. The Trump administration questions the costs of its own leadership role and the benefits of committed cooperation, both globally and with close partners. This is new, and it's demanding. At the same time, Norway's relationship with the United States is very good. For the United States, and will continue to have, the fundamental importance of our foreign and security policy. Therefore, it is in Norway’s interest to have good and extensive cooperation with the United States. The United States – and we – are facing global shifts in power and increasing major activisation. China’s emergence poses a growing strategic challenge for the United States, and Russia is seeking influence where the United States and the West are vulnerable. How the United States chooses to deal with these trends will be of great importance. We have made clear priorities for matters in our cooperation. Security and defence policy is most important. Here we note not only continuity, but also depression and increased American commitment. Trade and climate, on the other hand, are areas where we clearly show our disagreement with US policy. The relationship endures good violations of opinion and stands in the face of solid common interests. At the same time, it is worrying that the US sees less the value of committed international cooperation. To solve global challenges, we need the United States – the world’s largest economy and military power – to show more predictable leadership of democratic values, trade policy solutions and climate. The US decision to withdraw from the INF agreement came after years of unsuccessful attempts to make Russia comply with its contractual obligations. Together with our allies, we urge Russia to respect the agreement. INF has been important for stability and security in Europe for more than 30 years. It is very unfortunate that the agreement is now likely to end. Russ control, disarmament and non-proliferation remain essential to our security. That is why we call on the United States and Russia to extend the New Start Agreement beyond 2021. The non-proliferation agreement is the cornerstone of the international work of a world without nuclear weapons. It also imposes a legal obligation on nuclear weapons States. A ban that does not include nuclear weapons states has no effect. Disarmament must be balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable. Norway shall chair the United Nations Panel of Experts on the Verification of Disarmament. Here, nuclear weapons states and countries actively supporting the Treaty of Prohibition are united in joint action. This autumn Norway enters the IAEA Board, which is one of the most important organisations to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and radiological material. In order to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, both national and international cooperation in the field of export control is important. Norway is actively working to strengthen this cooperation. An example of the need for an effective non-proliferation regime is the situation we now see in Kashmir, where two nuclear powers end up in conflict. The situation has calmed down somewhat over the last few days. However, we cannot exclude the possibility of new impacts and the risk of further escalation. Europe is our continent. That is why we are strongly committed to the development of Europe. It is in our interest for the European Union to succeed. Cooperation with the EU and EU Member States is essential for our security, well-being and value creation. The EEA Agreement is our most comprehensive agreement, and it is in our fundamental interest that it should be carried out in the best possible way. It ensures Norwegian business access to a domestic market of over 500 million people and is crucial for the economic links with our closest partners. Only in 2018 did we export seafood to the EU market for 66 billion. kr, of a total maritime food export of EUR 99 billion. kr. The EU also appreciates the importance of the EEA for European cooperation. Together, therefore, we must celebrate the 25th anniversary of the entry into force of the agreement. The Prime Minister and her colleagues from Iceland and Liechtenstein participate in the marking at the European Council on 22 March. However, some believe that Norway would be better served without an EEA agreement. A clean trade agreement, like the one we had before 1994, is said to be more than good enough. It's not that simple. An example is that Norway was not included when the EU introduced safeguard measures against third countries on steel in 2018. The justification was simple: through the EEA we are part of the EU's internal market and thus very closely integrated into the EU economy. Switzerland, with all its free trade agreements, did not escape EU countermeasures. Free-trade agreements do not give economic integration in the same way. Moreover, market access is not only ensured by the EEA. Without the agreement, Norwegian citizens and businesses would not have the same rights to travel, work, study and establish themselves throughout the EEA territory. The EEA Agreement also ensures access to labour from other EEA countries, with the corresponding rights for each employee. In order to safeguard our interests, rights and obligations need to be balanced. Both Brexit and the EU's relationship with Switzerland show that maintaining the goods, but not taking the obligations, is difficult – if not impossible – in relation to the EU. Today, March 5, it is still completely uncertain what kind of conditions the EU and the United Kingdom will have in just 24 days. There is still an opportunity for the United Kingdom to exit the EU in an orderly manner on 29 March, with the negotiated agreement package as the framework for a transitional period. However, it cannot be excluded that the United Kingdom is leaving the EU without a call-out agreement and that there is therefore no transitional period. Nor can it be excluded that there will be a postponement of the date of exit. On the Norwegian side, we start on 29 March as a deadline. We are preparing both for a British withdrawal with an agreement and for a withdrawal without an agreement. We're going to continue the preparations along both of these tracks until we get a final clarification. If the outgoing agreement with the EU is approved by the UK Parliament, then our agreement with the United Kingdom is on citizens' rights and other issues of call, already clear and initial, but cannot be formally signed until the United Kingdom is out of the EU. Our agreement ensures that the EEA/EFTA States get conditions as much as possible from the EU Member States through the outsourcing agreement. The EU-UK delegation agreement implies that EU law will continue to apply in and for the United Kingdom for a transitional period ending in 2020. For Norway, it is important that the provisions of the EEA Agreement and other relevant agreements will also continue to apply in our relationship with the United Kingdom during this period. In order to ensure this, on 1 March the Government of the United Kingdom promoted a proposal for a legislative decision and a decision on a similar transitional period for Norway’s agreements with the EU. As previously announced in the European Commission of the United Kingdom, rapid processing of this proposition is important in order for the law to come into force on 29 March. At the same time, we are also preparing for a possible no deal outcome. Perhaps the most important thing is an agreement that ensures the continuation of citizens' rights. This is clear, and a proposition for the Storting was promoted on February 8. We already have, or are in, final negotiations on, agreements in areas such as aviation, maritime and road transport and trade in goods. The EU, for its part, has prepared to reduce the disadvantages of a no deal outcome. Some of this will have an impact on EEA acts. As brexit approaches, the information needs of both residents and businesses are also increasing. We update the government's website on an ongoing basis and have close contact with both industry and the social partners to meet this need. Brexit shows how complicated it is to break up connections that have evolved over several decades. Today, at the same time, we are witnessing a trade peace that strikes cracks. Trade barriers are set up, key trade links are characterised by confrontation, and there is growing distrust of the WTO. For Norwegian interests, for Norwegian business and for stability and cooperation, this is deeply worrying. We need to take a closer look at the reasons why global trade rules are being challenged, and not just using simple labels as ‘protectionism’. The economic world order of which we enjoy is based on three pillars: belief in committed international cooperation belief in the value of trade and open markets acceptance of responsibilities between the countries and confidence that the parties to the agreement will comply with their obligations; In meeting the pressure against the first pillar, the belief in internationally committed cooperation, Norway is a clear voice for conservation and further strengthening. That is why it is very positive that 76 WTO members, including the United States and China, now start negotiations on e-commerce to update the rulebook to a new date. At the same time, it is very worrying that the WTO can stand without a functioning dispute resolution system at the end of the year if they fail to find solutions to appoint new members of the WTO appeal body. In the case of the second pillar, the value of open markets, it is my impression that it exists, but that the aid is reserved. Globalisation will meet with resistance if people experience that the gains are mostly due to a few. The answer must be to build good regulation and safety net communities, not to build new barriers to the outside world. Nevertheless, the key to trade policy reforms is the third pillar, the need to find a new division of responsibilities reflecting today's economic reality. We need to demand more of the large and emerging economies, such as China, India and Brazil, which have previously been able to claim the need for special treatment in line with smaller or poorer developing countries. We need to talk less about which category you belong to, and more about what each country can contribute. Norway works with 12 other WTO members to strengthen and modernise the WTO. Norway has been given a special responsibility to facilitate a constructive dialogue on how to safeguard the interests of developing countries in the reforms that need to be implemented. But we should also be open to plurilateral agreements that are open to everyone to join, where it is not possible to reach an agreement on progress towards a multilateral approach. We need new compromises and new balance points to preserve the multilateral trading system based on rules. Then we must also show the will to change and reform. The government will continue to negotiate free trade agreements in parallel to ensure better market access and greater predictability for business. The overall objective of Norway’s Russian policy is to maintain peace, stability and predictability. Norway and Russia have a long tradition of cooperation in areas of common interest — environmental protection, fisheries management, nuclear safety, coastal and border guards, search and rescue, and not least people-to-people cooperation. Through a new initiative, we also build cooperation to combat marine pollution in the Barents Sea. In 2018, we concluded a new border agreement with Russia. A clear and unambiguous border is important, not least for the local population living in border areas. The border was actually 2 km further, and Norway's border with Russia is now 198 km. In the autumn of 2018, we met at Council level in three out of four bilateral commissions, and the fourth meeting — the Environment Commission — was held in February. In total, eleven meetings were held in autumn at political level, including between Solberg and Medvedev and between Lavrov and me. Norway takes over the Presidency of the Barents Council in October. We will use the Presidency period to work for a strong and sustainable barn region. I also look forward to marking the 75th anniversary of the liberation of East Finland that month. I have invited the Russian Foreign Minister to mark this important event. The Prime Minister and I are planning to attend the Arctic Conference in St. Petersburg in April. Cooperation with Russia, based on international law, is a prerequisite for stability in our neighbourhoods. That is why we have worked closely with Russia in regional, multilateral organisations such as the Arctic Council and the Barents Cooperation. Regional cooperation in the north is a central part of the Northern Region policy, and the northern regions are the main strategic responsibility of the government. In the autumn of 2020, when the government presents a new growth message on the northern regions, regional and cross-border cooperation will continue to be an important component. At the same time, the relationship between Russia and the West, including Norway, is currently strained. In recent years, the Russian authorities have shown greater risk-taking and self-confidence towards our allies. We have seen several cases of unacceptable behaviour and use of power where influence operations in different forms put pressure on other countries. Norway has reacted in the same way as allies and European partners, among others. by restrictive measures. We closely monitor Russia's military activity in our neighbourhoods. What we see is a Russia that has come a long way in extensive military modernisation in the north. This significantly increases Russian military capability in our neighbourhoods. We have also seen examples of Russian aircraft simulating attacks against targets in Norway and interference with GPS signals affecting Norwegian civil aviation and preparedness. This is not acceptable, and we are following up these matters with the Russian authorities. Predictability and dialogue are important, even when we disagree. We closely monitor the human rights situation in Russia. We are dealing with this with Russian authorities both bilaterally and multilaterally, for example. by implementing the Moscow mechanism in the OSCE in the light of reports of serious human rights violations in Chechnya. It resulted in a report with concrete recommendations to the Russian authorities to investigate the events thoroughly and to place the culprits responsible. Norway will continue to express its concern at the Russian authorities, through both bilateral and multilateral channels, until they implement the measures necessary to follow up their human rights obligations in all parts of Russia. Human rights apply to everyone, no matter what you mean, what you believe, and who you love. So the challenge is not what the United Nations Member State has agreed on. The challenge lies in the gap between life and learning. Too often, the commitments made by countries do not correspond to how they treat their own citizens. That we have to work to preserve established rights is a new and worrying development. This applies, for example: women's rights and sexual and reproductive rights. Rights previously agreed in the United Nations are being undermined by language change or tonedown and by increasing the number of resolutions being taken to vote. The challenging situation of human rights affects our space of action and how we work. Norway is a clear and constructive defender of human rights. We say clearly to countries that commit human rights violations. They shall never doubt what Norway thinks. We work with like-minded people when they get the best results, and to achieve change, and we work alone when it's most appropriate. But to be heard, our reactions must be well calibrated. Both intentional and – increasingly – unintended impacts need to be assessed. In particular, in recent years, some countries have been counterproductive or directly dangerous for some to be associated with Western aid. Escalating a situation or putting human rights defenders in greater danger is the last thing we want. Human rights violations often trigger, rightly, strong reactions and demands for visible actions. Breaking diplomatic relations and recalling ambassadors are some examples. But when we're concerned with throughput and change, in many cases this is the wrong tool. Without dialogue, we won't get far, and without diplomatic channels, we can't communicate our concerns. I am concerned that our policies should be clear, effective, long-term and adapted to the situations. We work closely with those who are most vulnerable, among others. human rights groups and civil society, about the response we give. Our main concern is what produces results. In the last 20 years, Norway has been leading the process of working with resolutions to protect human rights defenders. This year's UN resolution is about protecting environmentalists, and during the Human Rights Council session last week, I marked the start of the resolution negotiations. We are actively using the land hearings in the UN Human Rights Council and have made clear recommendations in recent months on improving the human rights situation, among others. China, Saudi Arabia, Vietnam, Afghanistan and Eritrea. Norway was the largest donor to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in 2018, and we concluded a multi-annual agreement that provides predictability and space for action. Norway has also increased efforts for religious minorities, including the fight against antisemitism. This year it is 70 years since the Council of Europe was established, and it is important to maintain access for 830 million Europeans to the European Court of Human Rights. The situation in the Council of Europe is demanding, and it is also essential to maintain its legitimacy in all 47 Member States. Norway is a port. What has historically linked Norway — from the south to the north — is our coastline. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea is the ‘basic law’ of the sea and the overall framework of international law for all activities at sea. Without the law of the sea it is not certain that Norway would have had the rights to oil, gas or fish, which have been so crucial to our economic development. More than two thirds of our export income comes from coastal and ocean-based activities. Through the government’s sea betting, Norway has taken a leading role internationally. We are concerned with the balance between growth and protection and the role of the sea in achieving sustainability objectives. The Prime Minister took the initiative and headed a high-level panel – with Heads of State and Government – for all the world oceans. In the summer of 2020, the panel presents its report with recommendations for a sustainable marine economy. The government has also set up an aid programme to combat marine pollution and has taken the initiative of the World Bank establishing a fund in which a number of countries contribute. Maritime issues are also becoming increasingly important in our growing cooperation with regional organisations, such as AU in Africa, CARICOM in the Caribbean, and ASEAN in Southeast Asia. Norway is hosting the next Our Ocean Conference. In October, foreign ministers, international organisations, businesses, researchers and civil society representatives from all over the world come to Oslo for action for healthy and rich seas. Climate and environmental issues require cross-border and inter-disciplinary cooperation. Reducing global warming to 1.5 degrees would mean a very comprehensive global transformation of energy systems, industry, urban development and agriculture and forestry. If we are to achieve this, all the countries of the world must increase their ambitions in climate policy. The notification of a new national contribution to the Paris Agreement in 2020 will be a critical milestone. Norway has notified under the Paris Agreement that we will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. in 2030, compared to 1990 levels. The government will work to increase the overall EU ambition level to 55 pst. in 2030, and will report a reinforced Norwegian climate target to the UN in 2020, in line with EU ambitions. At the Katowice Climate Conference, we were given a common regulatory framework for the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. It is essential to build trust and get results. Multilateral development banks play a crucial role in mobilising private capital against climate change. The Paris Agreement, the other United Nations system and multilateral development banks are three main pillars of international action against climate change. China has been part of Norwegian foreign policy since the Qing Emperor’s broadcast in 1906 was one of the first foreign visitors to independent Norway. Our policy towards China is commitment and cooperation. The completion of a bilateral trade agreement will be beneficial for both countries. China is an important partner in finding solutions to many of today’s global challenges. No other country was more important to achieve the Millennium Goals, and to implement the green shift in the future, China’s efforts become crucial. At the same time, we see large differences between Norway and China. Our interests do not always overlap. In some areas, we have to meet China with care and sometimes with criticism. The evolution of the human rights situation in China has raised concerns in several areas. Different starting points and social systems must not stand in the way of clear communication about trends that we do not see as positive. This is also a prerequisite for our bilateral dialogue with China. As always, we are worthy of a predictable and clear policy. China’s influence has grown in recent decades, to the extent that they will define the prospects for both regional and global stability. It will also have implications for Norway. We need to meet this challenge that we all face in the foreign policy landscape – by caring for our interests and opportunities, based on our own assessments, security policy and economic priorities and our fundamental democratic values. Even closer Nordic communities and European cooperation are part of the response to this challenge. The government has increased the humanitarian budget by nearly 65 pst. since 2013. Yemen has the worst humanitarian crisis in our time. The humanitarian crisis is primarily due to the war, and only a political solution can create lasting stability. Yemen is one of the countries receiving the most humanitarian aid from Norway. Last year, we launched a new humanitarian strategy, and this year, in particular, we are giving priority to one of the three main areas of the strategy: civil protection. Firstly, we will strengthen the protection against sexual and gender-based violence in humanitarian crises. The four-year Nobel Prize winners showed how the fates of individuals affect and tear up entire communities, and how the wounds of sexualized violence hinder peace and reconciliation. In May we organise an international conference – together with the UN, the ICRC and other humanitarian partners – in Oslo on sexual and gender-based violence. The aim is to promote increased political will, greater humanitarian contributions and better operational response. Secondly, we will strengthen the protection of civilians against landmines during and after conflict. Norway has this year assumed the presidency of the Mines Convention. In November we gather all the parties to a supervisory conference, which takes place every five years. A lot remains before we approach the goal of a mine-free world. After many years of positive development, we have seen again in recent years an increase in the use of mines, especially by non-governmental actors such as ISIL. Last year we contributed more than 325 million. kr for the mapping and clearance of landmines in 18 countries, and the aid is continued this year. We are among the world's five largest donors for mining. The last few years have been among the deadliest after the cold war. Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq and Yemen now account for 80 p.m. of all deaths in conflict. Today's conflicts are marked by an unwieldy picture: militias, terrorist groups, porous borders and weak state structures. Global and regional actors are fighting blows through substitute actors in internal conflicts, such as: in Yemen, Syria and Ukraine. Use of power is sometimes necessary, but shall be the last resort and be anchored in international law. At the same time, it is political solutions that provide long-term stability and peace. The Norwegian peace exposure is requested. Where larger countries are often questioned, Norway is often perceived as an impartial actor. Our commitment is also an important foreign policy capital, which gives us influence and creates greater interest in Norway. We have to use this space of action with care. It requires willingness to face demanding situations over a long period of time, and it requires early involvement. The main thing is the willingness to take political risks. The risk of a process failure is often high. In Colombia, the implementation of the peace agreement is demanding and exacerbates strong counter-powers. Even so, FARC has put down its weapons and become a political party. The number of deaths caused by the conflict has been significantly reduced. It is precisely because the gains are so great if we succeed that we also have to endure failure – firstly because peace is a prerequisite for development, secondly because resolution of conflicts far from also has an impact on our own security, thirdly because conflict resolution often helps to mitigate humanitarian crises. We assist the parties in Afghanistan, in South Sudan and in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In Somalia, we contribute to stabilisation through new reconciliation measures. We also maintain our strong commitment to ensuring the implementation of the peace agreement in Colombia, and we continue our responsibility to facilitate the negotiations in the Philippines. The principle that Norway can talk to everyone is a prerequisite for our peace exposure. We only organize when both parties want us to have a role. We are anchoring our initiatives in the UN and in selected capitals. No conflict can be resolved in a vacuum. When the image of actors is complex and security interests are at stake, it calls for broad dialogue with both regional and international actors. Over 25 years of international peace exposure, we have gained many experiences that we share with other organizers and experts. Discretion is important. This exposure is not carried out in floodlights. This, of course, gives less immediate outward gain, but the greater the chance that the efforts actually succeed. Cooperation with non-governmental organisations, think tanks and researchers is central. Norway acts impartially but never neutrally. In negotiations, we promote international law and human rights. We highlight the importance of ensuring victims’ rights after conflict – even where they face opposition from the parties. Women's rights, needs and priorities are an integral part of our peace and reconciliation policy. It is when we draw on the whole population's resources and insights, consult widely and anchor the efforts of those who are to live in the communities that are being rebuilt that we can succeed in creating a peace that lasts. Our new action plan for women, peace and security – presented by five government councils in January – continues Norway’s leadership. Norway has initiated a Nordic network of women's peace brokers, and last March we launched a global alliance of women's brokers here in Oslo. In peace processes between 1991 and 2017, only 2 pst. by all peace brokers women. With our initiative, we want to contribute to a change. That changing governments have chosen to maintain the peace exposure is a great strength for our efforts. The continuation of concrete peace efforts through government change means that Norway is perceived as a reliable and predictable partner. In recent times, some positive steps have been taken to end the 18-year-long war in Afghanistan. The United States has initiated talks with the Taliban. The parties discuss guarantees that, in the future, the country will not become an armament for international terrorism, and they will discuss the extent of international forces. But much remains before Afghanistan has a final peace agreement. There is a need for a comprehensive truce. In addition, a further process must include the Afghan Government, with which the Taliban has so far refused to negotiate. All groups, including women and religious minorities, must be involved and their rights must be respected. The countries of the region must also provide their support. There will be a need for continued financial support to Afghanistan under any peace agreement. ISIL remains a threat in the Middle East, Europe and globally. Despite the loss of ISIL, so to speak, all territorial control in Syria and Iraq, they still exist as a terrorist movement with considerable resources and ideological influence. The underlying causes of the emergence of the group are still present. In Iraq, it is important that the authorities ensure the liberated areas and provide basic services to the population. Norway contributes both humanitarian and stabilisation efforts. Norway has a military contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition, which trains and advises Iraqi forces, in addition to notifying us of a contribution to NATO training, which is in the process of being established. In Syria, the nearly eight-year conflict is most likely to be on the way to a final phase. The level of violence has been significantly reduced. At the same time, we are deeply concerned that possible offensives in northern Syria will have negative humanitarian consequences. By the end of the year, we will have fulfilled our promise of 10 billion. kr to Syria and neighbouring countries for 2016–2019. In the future, we'll continue to be a significant giver. Education and the protection of civil society are central to our efforts. Returning foreign fighters and their children is a demanding question. The situation of the Norwegian children is worrying. But this is a matter that unfortunately does not have simple solutions. We follow the situation closely, and we consider ongoing actions, including the actions carried out in other European countries. Such a situation is now, it is not relevant to pick up foreign warriors. Norwegian citizens abroad who want consular assistance must contact the EEAS themselves. All Norwegian citizens have the right to enter Norway. This also applies to foreign fighters and their children, but foreign fighters will be prosecuted in Norway. The Norwegian Presidency of the Giverland Group for Palestine, AHLC, is a significant contribution to our long-standing commitment to contributing to peace between Israelis and Palestinians. The aim of the AHLC is to contribute to an institutional and economic basis for a future Palestinian state formation. This effort is important during a period when there is no real peace process, but it can never replace the need for a political solution. We have been assured that Norwegian funds are not used for Palestinian prison wages. Nevertheless, we work with other countries in order for the Palestinian self-government authorities to change today's system. The development of the Western Balkans is worrying. Countries face major challenges. The pace of reform is low, the rule of law is weak, and corruption is extensive. Economic growth is slow, youth unemployment is high, and social problems are high. Together with old contradictions and unresolved questions after previous conflicts, this gives ground for new tensions. The relationship between Russia and the West is also a clear sign of the Western Balkans. At the same time, there are also some positive developments. The name agreement between Greece and Northern Macedonia means that North Macedonia is now at the threshold of NATO membership. Mr Tsipras and Mr Zaev have shown that leadership is beneficial. Together with the countries in the area and in close cooperation with the EU and the Member States, we take our share of responsibility. That is why we have doubled the financial support for Western Balkans. The situation in Venezuela is very worrying. The parties are far from each other, and there is a risk that the conflict may escalate further, which will have a major impact on the civilian population, which is already suffering greatly. It is therefore essential that the parties find a peaceful solution to the conflict. Norway has always supported Juan Guaidó as the legitimate President of the National Assembly. The 2018 presidential election was not in line with international standards. Norway supports the legitimate demands of the population on democratic rights and free elections. At the same time, we expect the government of Venezuela to meet the demands of the population and respect the mandate and role of the National Assembly under its constitution. We are in contact with both parties in Venezuela and can contribute if the parties so wish. We have condemned the use of Venezuelan regular and irregular forces against those who are trying to bring emergency aid into the country. All use of violence and threats against peaceful demonstrators must be stopped immediately. Humanitarian actors must be guaranteed full access and be allowed to operate freely, in line with international humanitarian principles. Norway has increased humanitarian aid to Venezuela and the region and contributed more than 50 million last year. kr. The question I opened with – what is Norwegian foreign policy? – can, of course, be answered in various ways: by referring to our interests, our values and our history or, through an explanation of almost an hour, show that we are continuing the work, which has gone on for decades, for a better organized world. At the same time as I have been standing here at the Spokesman's Chair, Norwegian foreign policy is practiced in practice. In Geneva, our delegation negotiates an international agreement to reduce fishing subsidies. In Yangon it is empty in the embassy secretary’s office because he accompanies a delegation investigating the situation of internally displaced persons in the state of Kachin. And in London, Norwegian retailers are discussing the latest details of the terms of trade in the event of a ‘no deal’ brexit. This, and thousands of other small and large events, is Norwegian foreign policy. And that's through this sum of single events Norway shows what we mean, what we want, and what we think the world should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e575	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e591	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e600	The background to the case is briefly this: In July 2017, a UN statement of principle was adopted on a general ban on nuclear weapons. On 8 February last year, in the context of a proposal for a representative on the same subject, the Government asked to examine the consequences of any Norwegian accession to the Treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons. The majority wanted to have the content of the Treaty assessed against existing Norwegian alliance obligations and other conventions Norway has acceded. The government’s assessment was incorporated as part of the State budget. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence wanted to give its opinion on a separate matter, taken out of the budgetary position, in order to ensure sound treatment, free from the time limits for the consideration of the State budget. This is the setting that we are currently setting. It follows from the wording that the members of the Committee, with the exception of the member of the SV, do not recommend a Norwegian signing of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The overwhelming majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, stress in the vote that NATO's possibility of credible deterrence suggests that the alliance cannot unilaterally give up nuclear weapons as long as others have them. NATO is a decisive factor in Norway’s safety and would be similarly weakened if NATO’s ability to deter them was not credible. The individual parties will present their premises, and there is also a changing majority in the committee's position on the points of view, but I would like to express great satisfaction at the fact that the Labour Party has joined and is now a solid part of the majority in the Storting that supports the government's conclusion, namely that we are not going to sign the UN's nuclear ban. The reason I dwell on it was that in the debate on the proposal for a representative and in other public statements from the Workers' Party it seemed as if they thought that this Treaty was a aid to nuclear disarmament. It is a great value for a small country to have a broad focus on key principles, including a broad majority beyond block boundaries, in terms of foreign policy. Nuclear disarmament requires a trust relationship which, in turn, must be based on the best possible verification of compliance with a Convention. The Committee agrees with the government's conclusions and takes note of the fact that it is not currently up to date with Norwegian accession to the Treaty of Prohibition, which contains significant shortcomings in the area of enforcement and verification. This is the conclusion. In our view, the investigation highlights fundamental problems with the Treaty. If the prohibition Treaty is to be legally binding, this means that the prohibition must be enforceable in a credible manner, irrespective of whether or not the States have acquired nuclear weapons. It is difficult enough to imagine for countries which, contrary to the prohibition, acquire nuclear weapons, but completely unrealistic if the ban is sought without the participation of all existing nuclear weapons states. Otherwise, it would either result in a nuclear monopoly for new offenders of the ban or a monopoly for existing nuclear powers which have not voluntarily abandoned their own arsenals of nuclear weapons. In addition, the Prohibition Treaty establishes a new track with its own procedures in the field of global non-proliferation, which could create a situation in which countries downgrade active participation in disarmament work to the benefit of agreeing to a thin legal ban. The Treaty shall enter into force 90 days after its ratification by 50 States, as the case may be. In addition to the fact that the Treaty, no matter how many accede to it, cannot force any nuclear power against its will, it must be noted that a number of States which have previously expressed a favourable opinion on the Treaty of Prohibition will not accede to the Treaty, however, in due course of reflection. We agree with the investigation which, on this basis, concludes that the Treaty of Prohibition is an inappropriate instrument to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons. During 2018, we have been illustrated that any prohibition does not appear to be suitable for resolving current situations, for example: in the Korean Peninsula. All nuclear and other countries concerned must be parties to such an agreement. Disposal of the nuclear weapon umbrella will not weaken the threat image if nuclear weapons are still present. With this I have to hide the other good points of any later post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e623	The representative, Mr Tetzschner, is welcome to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e628	Fortunately, after the nuclear bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in the late summer of 1945, mankind has avoided the active use of nuclear weapons. The humanitarian consequences are disastrous if only one of the remaining 14,500 nuclear warheads in the world were to detonate. Yes, it is fully possible to argue that the use of nuclear weapons under humanitarian law is already at present illegitimate and unacceptable, through the principles of humanitarian law to avoid excessive damage and unnecessary suffering, as well as the inability of nuclear weapons to distinguish between combatants and civilians. Here in Norway, we have in practice had our own national nuclear ban for over 60 years, after Prime Minister Einar Gerhardsen at the NATO Summit in Paris in 1957 established the principle of no nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. This policy has served us well. The view of the Labour Party is that the Norwegian authorities must actively promote balanced and reciprocal nuclear disarmament within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement, with a long-term objective of an international ban on nuclear weapons. This is where I disagree with the representative from the Right. We have never taken the initiative to sign this Treaty. But that we should always have as our goal a long-term work for a ban – that is the Labour Party's policy. When we from the Workers' Party conclude that Norway should not, as of today as the only NATO country, join the ban convention in its present form, it has two main reasons. One is the consideration of our NATO commitments and that principle that sustainable nuclear disarmament must be balanced and reciprocal. Firstly, collective security through the NATO alliance is the cornerstone of Norwegian foreign and defence policy. A Norwegian accession to the Prohibited Treaty will break our NATO obligations. This is a political question and not just a legal one. NATO’s central decision-making body, the North Atlantic Council, unanimously concluded on 20 September 2017 that NATO’s goal of a nuclear-free world – this was put into place on the initiative of Norway – but that the alliance cannot support the Treaty as it now stands. Therefore, it becomes a legal-theoretical derailment to claim, such as. in this case, the Government Party of the Left invigoratingly states that Norwegian accession is compatible with NATO membership only because the 1949 Atlantic Pact does not explicitly mention nuclear weapons. Secondly, Article 4 of the Prohibited Treaty violates the principle that nuclear disarmament must take place in a balanced and reciprocal manner, but goes against one country joining the Treaty and destroying any nuclear weapons. A consistent approach to Norway's accession to the Treaty must also support our NATO allies, such as the United Nations. France, the United Kingdom and the United States, would do the same. However, the unilateral accession of NATO countries to the Treaty while other nuclear weapons countries retain their nuclear weapons would be contrary both to the principle of balanced and mutual disarmament and also to a risk of a more unstable security situation in our neighbourhoods. Although Norway should not join the Prohibit Treaty at present, there is a need for Norway to play a more active role in nuclear disarmament. Here I am happy to see the same commitment from the current and the previous Foreign Minister as we saw from the two predecessors. It is about putting the spotlight on and documenting the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons, and it is about efforts to preserve the disarmament agreements that we actually have – the non-proliferation agreement, the nuclear agreement with Iran and the START agreement between the United States and Russia, when it expires in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e643	Sometimes international policies are exposed to realism. The decision to ban nuclear weapons belongs to this category. If there is no more effective and more precise weapons, nuclear weapons – like the wheel – will form part of the global security policy image. In isolation, this is terrible news, but overall, it's not given. The politicians who are happy in the Earth and in each other want to sign the agreement. The more countries they sign, the better they think. Similarly, politicians who are not particularly concerned about the soil and well or their neighbours do not want Norway to sign the agreement. I'm in that category. I'm actually so simple that I think Norway's security is best cared for through NATO. Three NATO countries have nuclear weapons, and these weapons form part of NATO's doctrine. I'm actually so naive that I think the fact that these weapons exist helps them not to be used. The very existence of weapons and the clear message that they will be used in self-defense deter so much that if such weapons were to be used in one of NATO's 29 member countries, it would be the mere suicide –'mutual assured destruction'. We can all have a vision or a dream of a world without nuclear weapons, or a world without weapons at all, for that matter. But the paradox is that nuclear weapons contribute to deterrence, and deterrence contributes to peace. This does not mean, however, that we should let the world go and allow nuclear weapons to spread. It's just here that all the focus should be. World society should be united to prevent the proliferation of nuclear technology, including the technology that enables such weapons to be delivered. If unstable regimes try to get nuclear weapons, the world community must stand together to prevent this. This is precisely why all focus should be on non-proliferation and, of course, central nuclear weapons states must play a major role in such work. Non-proliferation agreements, NPT, are a success story. At the beginning of the first NPT negotiations, 25-30 countries were expected to have nuclear weapons within 20 years. This has prevented the NPT agreement. The NPT agreement is global. Most countries in the world have joined, including the five countries that have declared that they have nuclear weapons. North Korea has withdrawn from the agreement. Israel, India and Pakistan have not signed the agreement. It's okay to be impatient, but the world doesn't necessarily become a safer place for that reason. In fact, the work on a ban on nuclear weapons contributes to undermining the NPT. The fans should notice that. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party joins the broad majority of the Storting and rejects the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. However, I became a little more uncertain when I heard that the representative Huitfeldt from this interlocutor thought that the only reason was that it broke with NATO's obligations, which the former cooperation partner of the Central Party thought it did not. The Labour Party also wants Norway to play an active role in disarmament, and this is a classic double-ethnic game. At one moment we are going to be active in disarmament, small Norway is going to be one of the most active drivers of disarmament, and at the same time we are going to be a country protected by nuclear weapons. It's not related. Norway may not have the central role in any international forum — we can sometimes have a little bit of a backbencher role and not always the foremost. On several previous occasions from this pulpit, I have noted the unique ability of the Central Party to speak with two tongues, or write with both hands, a compromise that says two things at the same time. In the setting on page 5, first column, the Centre Party and SV determine: ‘... that the decision on the Norwegian signing of the Treaty of Prohibition is about political will’. On the same page in column two, the Centre Party alone writes: ‘... that NATO membership is not a barrier to joining the Forbidden Convention.’ This contrasts with the representative Huitfeldt. And on the other hand, ‘The accession of Norway to the Forbidden Treaty will not be able to force NATO countries to unilateral disarmament, but give a clear signal that Norway wants global disarmament of nuclear weapons.’ When all of this is formulated, the Center Party chooses not to join any of the three SV proposals. The centre party does not want the government to come back to Stortinget with a case. The centre party also does not want a new investigation and a wide consultation. They're just rhetorical agreement and verbal agreement, but they're completely disagreeable when it comes to action. The centre party has a unique ability to conclude differently from one magnification period to the other, but this time the party takes two positions in the same case. The party takes a Peer Gynt and protests for the world, but joins in the process. Despite clear and cumbersome comments, the party fully agrees with the other parties – the proposal is put in a drawer, or annexed to the Minutes, as it is called in Parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e676	Unfortunately, I must disappoint the representative Tybring-Gjedde: the centre party will support SV today. The reason why we don't do this in the setting is that we have a tradition of discussing such issues – what we should vote for and against – thoroughly in the party before we support any proposals. That doesn't mean we can't be identical. On 25 January this year, South Africa, like the 22nd, ratified the agreement of the UN General Assembly which prohibits States from developing, testing, producing and acquiring nuclear weapons. 122 countries sign the agreement in 2017. Norway was not between these countries. The International Campaign for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, ICAN, received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017, etc. for their work on this Agreement. It is behind the debate today. Last week, five nuclear powers were involved in two different conflicts in Asia: Pakistan and India in Kashmir, where they rival to control the area – Kashmir is known to be divided between China, India and Pakistan, and there are great tensions in the area. In Vietnam, U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korea Kim Jong-un met and discussed nuclear disarmament on the Korean peninsula, without results. Ideas and initiatives are beneficial, said the Minister of Foreign Affairs today. A decision by the UN General Assembly on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is an idea and an initiative that can benefit – if many enough countries sign and ratify the agreement. The Treaty does not lead to unilateral disarmament for NATO. But if Norway signs, there will be a clear signal – like the representative Tybring-Gjedde quoted from the setting – that Norway wants global disarmament of nuclear weapons. The central party is pleased that the government clearly concludes that there is no legal obstacle to Norway’s being able to join the agreement. The distribution also makes it clear that there is no hold-up point to claim that a prohibited international law contravene the conditions of the NPT for disarmament. On the contrary, many hearing authorities believe that the Treaty builds on and strengthens the NPT and has the same verification system. In the last year, we've been getting a whole new knowledge of the consequences of a nuclear detonation. The tensions in global society have increased, with the risk of nuclear weapons being detonated — intentionally, by accident, by misinterpretation or by technical failure. The two elements should be at the heart of the debate on Norway's accession to the Prohibited Treaty. There is a great deal of lack in the way we are debating here today. Sweden has created a corresponding distribution, with much broader and heavier documentation from both foreign and Swedish researchers. Here's nothing like that. There is no intention to take an open listening round to highlight the theme that is part of the Storting treatment. One can almost believe that the majority does not want a wide debate on such an important issue as this is for world peace, not to mention the humanitarian disasters that may happen. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is talking about Norway's role in protecting human beings. It does not mean to protect man from nuclear weapons. If only one of the warheads is fired, a major humanitarian crisis is at risk — food shortages, crop failure, and millions who lose their lives. Nor can Norway ignore this. The Oslo Conference in 2013 represented a new giver in the important work against nuclear weapons. The government should take the initiative of a new Oslo conference in which NATO actively participates. Our geographical position as a neighbour of Russia has led Norway to engage many times in dialogue between NATO and Russia to dampen aggressive rhetoric, and it is not a political shift to lift the debate on nuclear weapons bans in NATO. It's in line with Norway's role as a peace nation and a force for nuclear disarmament. In the past, Norway has been a driver for cutting weapons, among other things. class weapons, and there is no doubt that it also started with many who criticized us for not being able to do this – but they got it. Together, it was with land mines. For example, signing the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is about political will for peace, rather than supporting it under rhetoric for upgrading. At least Norway should attend the meeting as an observer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e697	The survivors will envy the dead, said my predecessor as SV leader Berge Furre once in connection with the debate on nuclear weapons. We've had nuclear flares. It is a myth that the existence of nuclear weapons has prevented war. In all probability, we have been fortunate enough not to use them either in war or by accident during the cold war. What is happening now, with new major activization and upgrading, is apparently that we are going to bet on the luck even in the years and decades to come. Nuclear weapons pose a permanent risk to life. The risk of use is increasing, major activisation is increasing, and in the wake of the collapse of the INF agreement, we can see increased pressure for nuclear missile deployment in Europe. In such a situation, it must be very clear what is in the interest of a small country. It will be to follow the clear advice we have received from people in Norway, where an overwhelming majority of polls say they want to support the ban. Small states must stand together to prevent the major powers from drawing the world into a new nuclear race. Then pressure is the best tool – from below, from people, and pressure from all the countries that don't have nuclear weapons, against the powers that have it. That's why the UN ban process is so important, so it's so positive, and that's why it's also the best tool we have now to take care of the other tools we have to limit the nuclear weapons, the other agreements we have. Supporting the Prohibition Treaty is the best way to defend the other agreements as well. Two things have been clarified through this work. Firstly, there are no legal barriers, nothing in Norway’s NATO membership that prevents Norway from complying with the ban. Secondly, the myth that the ban and its accession constitute a requirement for unilateral disarmament on the part of NATO has been rejected. On the contrary, it is a process with the opposite objective, namely to push forward a mutual disarmament – a pressure on the powers of power to calm down one another. That, of course, does not mean that Norwegian membership will be popular in Washington and Brussels. But it's possible. It's a question of political will, it's a question of political courage, and it's a question of ability and willingness to be independent from Donald Trump's United States. This debate is taking place in several NATO countries. In Spain, this has been the subject of budgetary negotiations. The Icelandic Prime Minister has expressed a positive attitude. Australia, which is in alliance with the United States, has an opposition party that can win the elections this spring, which has said clearly that they want Australia to join the ban. If someone goes ahead, others are going to go after. The question is who should go first. I am not surprised at the attitude of the government parties, but I must say I am deeply disappointed at the way the Labour Party stands in this setting. This is a process that was in many ways initiated by our common government, with the humanitarian initiative of the red-green government. Now the Workers' Party is not just willing to support the ban, but they are not willing to take small steps, such as: agreeing to be observers at the meetings of the State Parties. The working party repeats in its comments what is not true, namely that a connection is a requirement for unilateral disarmament. The Workers' Party has a long and proud history of nuclear policy – from Einar Gerhardsen's no to nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil through the debate on NATO's double decision in the 1980s and on the humanitarian initiative of the Red-Green Government. But now the Workers' Party is completely in line with the Right and Advance Party – and the United States. The representative of Huitfeldt was even more aggressive in his rhetoric against the ban today than the representative of Tetzschner was. I must say I'm disappointed in it. This is a question of political will and courage, and here the Workers' Party should be with the rest of the red-green parties. Saying no to the ban is actually standing next to the nuclear powers. It will also be to stand on the wrong side of the story. We are promoting our proposals today. The debate on Norway's position on the ban on nuclear weapons is in no way over with the decisions taken today, and I hope this discussion will go into several parties in the future. With that I will address the suggestions SV has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e718	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e723	What we are discussing today is the investigation carried out by the government, which concludes that the Treaty of Prohibition is contrary to our NATO membership, and not least that it is a small-scale instrument for further disarmament due to weak mechanisms for controlling and verifying disarmament and non-proliferation. Nuclear weapons are part of NATO's deterrent policy, and none of our allies support the nuclear ban, and none of the countries with nuclear weapons support the Treaty. As the committee has certainly seen, Målfrid Braut-Hegghammer presented today in the evening post a chronicle where she is very concerned about the following: ‘On the other hand, existing agreements have been closed in demarcating proliferation to new states and reducing nuclear arsenals in nuclear weapons states. These are now under increasing pressure. It should be a priority to preserve agreements and regimes that operate, rather than enter into a prohibition treaty that will have little real effect.’ The Swedish have just carried out their investigation. It has many of the same assessments and analyses and draws the same conclusions as in the Norwegian assessment. Then you can say a little humorous to the representative Navarsete that although she felt that the Norwegian investigation was too short, writing 300 pages was not worth writing – the conclusions are the same. It is positive that the investigation now receives a thorough treatment in Stortinget. It is also in line with the Stortinget’s unanimous decision of 26 April 2016. While on the government side we are actively working for a world without nuclear weapons, we must also be a credible and predictable partner for our allies. I talked about the INF agreement in my presentation and therefore I'm not going to repeat it here, but I'm still going to spend some time telling what the government thinks is a lot of the challenge with the Prohibition Treaty. It is a matter of not requiring the States Parties to join the enhanced IAEA inspection scheme, the so-called Additional Protocol. It is considered to be the current global standard for safety controls on nuclear material. In addition, it does not require the conclusion of the probationary agreement nor does it have instructions as to how disarmament should actually take place if a nuclear State should accede to the Treaty. There is therefore a basis for saying that the Prohibition Treaty is a less appropriate instrument for further disarmament due to weak mechanisms for controlling disarmament and non-proliferation. The debate at the 1st UN General Assembly last autumn on disarmament and non-proliferation was very polarized and confrontational. It is therefore more important than ever to protect the global disarmament and non-proliferation regime. Therefore, Norway has undertaken to chair the UN Committee of Experts. We are promoting concrete initiatives that deliver concrete results and bring together a broad range of responses. The expert group shall participate in the five NPT nuclear weapons States as well as India and Pakistan. This is essential because further progress in disarmament depends on the involvement of nuclear weapons states. All of these seven countries supported the verification work in a vote at the UN General Assembly in December. There is something that no other country has ever done to date – bringing together both countries that are nuclear weapons states, and countries that support the Treaty of Prohibition for joint action in what is the most concrete and important area to work for disarmament today. The Hanoi Summit last week shows that there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve the goal of abolishing North Korea's nuclear and missile programmes. Continued dialogue is important, but the results are currently waiting. Norway had a central role in the implementation of the Iran Agreement, and we regret that the United States has withdrawn from the agreement. We support continued full implementation. To help us in the long-term work of Norway in the field of disarmament, we need up-to-date knowledge of arms control and new generations of experts on nuclear issues. Therefore, the government has decided to support the University of Oslo's new initiative: Oslo Nuclear Project. The importance of good and factual debate and good knowledge is crucial in the further work of a world without nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e763	In the setting, the Government Party of the Left states that it would be ‘compatible with Norwegian NATO membership and Norwegian security policy to join the Pact’. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree with the Left Government Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e770	This was a position left had, and it was well known for the government even before the Left came into the government. We have been very clear in our statements in the investigation that there is no legal obstacle to joining the Treaty of Prohibition, but it will then conflict with our political commitments in NATO. There is also a very clear line in the Swedish investigation, that although Sweden is not in NATO, it will challenge the security cooperation that Sweden has, among other things. with NATO and central allies, and that is also the reason why the Swedish investigation strongly advises against Swedish accession, either by signing or by ratification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e779	Can we then understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs disagrees with what the Left says that it is compatible with our NATO membership? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is incompatible to join the Treaty, as it now stands, when we are a member of NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e784	I repeat what I said: it's not legally impossible to join, it's not legally impossible, but we think it's contrary to the political obligations we've assumed. It may be tempting in these annual meetings to put the question back again: Akershus Arbeiderpartei, who is led by the representative Huitfeldt, has just agreed to both a ratification and a signing of the nuclear ban, so that there are divergent opinions, I think there is nothing new, but the government's line is very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e791	I suggest that the Foreign Minister perhaps wait a few years, and we can turn to the question when it is the Foreign Minister's time for a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e796	If it was a reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the opportunity to reply. The President shall record that the representative shall leave the Chair. It's normal practice to wait for the answer at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e801	It is not unusual that in a line change in the Storting you also point to the politics of other parties, and it was not a question either, it was just a statement of what the Workers' Party has just adopted in Akershus, where the representative Anniken Huitfeldt is the leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e806	I want to follow up on the previous replicator and ask what concrete commitments in our NATO membership prevent Norway from signing the agreement. When the government uses it as such a strong argument, it has to be more than just pointing out that it can be politically difficult. There must be concrete grips. The government cannot refuse to sign an appointment without a list of concrete facts underlying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e811	It is also well described in the investigation. So, as we're very clear, there's nothing in the NATO Pact as such that prevents you from joining. One of the reasons for this is that the Charter does not mention different types of weapons to be used to implement NATO's deterrent and defence strategy. However, through a number of binding agreements, Norway has addressed support for, for example: NATO shall be a nuclear alliance. I can mention here the strategic concept of 2010. I can also mention Defence Posture Review, which came in 2012. Both of these came at a time when the Central Party was in government, and Norway joined, together with the other NATO countries. It's the concrete operationalization of what it means to be in the defense alliance, and that NATO is a nuclear alliance. This means that if you don't want to join in, you'll break the political prerequisites that are at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e818	The requirement for disarmament is for one to have a mutual disarmament. That NATO should rest one-sidedly, I have not heard any appeals for. But signing such an agreement will, of course, put a big pressure on everyone to get a process that will lead to disarmament. It has been learned that the existing instrument is in a way good enough. The non-proliferation agreement has been 50 years, but it has not led to disarmament. Disarmament has taken on a kind of initiative like this, either landmines or class weapons, which gave a discussion, a country with it, and there was a press. I have a specific question: the Nobel Committee believes that ‘an international law ban on nuclear weapons will be an important, perhaps crucial, step on the road to a nuclear-free world’. This was said by the chairperson of the Committee in his speech when ICAN received the Peace Prize in 2017. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs disagree with the Nobel Committee in the meaning of such an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e826	The government is very clear about what we think are the challenges, and it is especially, as I was told in my speech, that the Treaty of Prohibition does not require the consent of any of the known and established disarmament regimes. It has very poor and weak verification mechanisms, and it requires a state at the moment you decide to join, to also state their nuclear weapons. This will lead to a major strategic imbalance, and this is also the difference between, for example, the two. the mine convention and the class weapon convention, which was otherwise also successful because countries with class weapons and mines participated in its design. But the difference between the prohibition treaty and the two is that the two have no impact on the strategic balance. Nuclear weapons have a significant importance for the strategic balance, and that is precisely why nuclear weapons cannot be disposed of – one country – without a verifiable, reciprocal and irreversible disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e831	The last replicator is Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e836	The Minister of Foreign Affairs was concerned with the question of verification. There is a clear reluctance in the hearings, including: by the Red Cross and others who must be said to have strong authority in the field, the claim that the Treaty should be too weak with regard to verification. But if that's the government's view, I think it's very special to use that argument, because Norway hasn't been able to participate in the negotiations that could make the treaty even better. So if the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned that the Treaty is too weak in this area, why has Norway not participated in the process of getting a better result?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e841	On the government side, we have been very clear that negotiations on a prohibition treaty that does not include nuclear weapons states will never be able to function, simply because the nuclear weapons states must be involved. It is also at the heart of our work on verification in the UN, precisely that we are bringing together both nuclear weapons states and countries supporting the Treaty of Prohibition into a joint effort in a very important and concrete area. If we look at the Swedish investigation, which I assume is that the representative Lysbakken has read well and thoroughly, it is also very clear that it does not belong to the current verification mechanisms, that it is based on lower standards of verification than is currently the case in today's picture, and that you because, for example, you have. not find references to the Prohibition Treaty in part of the work done by the United Nations, making it possible to have a setback for, for example. NPT. This is not a development we want; rather, on the contrary, we want the existing mechanisms to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e848	The President shall allow a reply to the representative Lighthouse, as one of the lines in the exchange of words cannot be considered as a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e853	So we don't share that reality, and the objection remains. If Norway has strong objections to the outcome of the negotiations, Norway could participate in the negotiations and do something about it. But I wanted to ask about another thing, because I think it was a little strange seeing here when Huitfeldt's representative hung himself up in the Left's comment. It is especially to see a representative from the Workers' Party trying to push a foreign minister from the Right to be even more critical of the UN nuclear agreement than she is. Therefore, I would simply like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she can see any difference between her position and that of the government and that of the Labour Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e860	Sorry, President, the representative can only repeat the question. I didn't quite hear what the question was -- whether I can see any difference on...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e865	... whether she can see any difference between her and the government's position and the Labour Party's position in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e870	I note that, through the comments made by the Workers' Party, they support what is the government's line. Throughout both the investigation and in previous discussions and debates, the government has stressed the concrete work we are doing for disarmament and verification, especially. This is a work that continues with full strength. That means that when we now go into the board of directors of the IAEA, when, from the summer, we take on the leadership of the Hague Code of Conduct, which is a very important tool for building trust in this work, there are only two of a long number of initiatives and work we do to fulfill what is also a unanimous decision of the Trust Council in 2016. I don't think there's any disagreement in this room about what we're working to achieve, that's a world free of nuclear weapons. What we disagree about is the means and the greatest effect. There the government has a very clear position, and I record that the Workers' Party joined it through its comments. Then I've seen that in the annual meetings, too, in the last few weeks, there may be a mixed picture from the Labour Party, but we're assuming that there is a consensus on the government's line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e875	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e882	I believe that this debate should not be primarily about legal or international legal analysis, but perhaps most of all about political will to participate in a process for the liquidation of the world's nuclear arsenal. Then I am still glad that last year, in the UK, we got the biggest deal to go on with this matter of investigating the consequences, and we have now had a rather factual debate about this. It looked dark for a while. The last foreign minister ridiculed this ban and called it a game for the gallery and populism. We have received a small contribution to that kind of argument today, from the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who has said that nuclear weapons are as natural as the wheel. It's a little bit difficult to get involved in this kind of argument. Today, Michael Tetzschner says in the class struggle that he is against the treaty because it is not really binding. That's what the Foreign Minister also says. I think that's a difficult argument, because with such a starting point it would be easier to be involved and not more difficult. Today, the Labour Party’s representative Huitfeldt – and that is quite right, what she says – also says that the use of nuclear weapons is a violation of humanitarian law. Yes, it violates the so-called derogation principle, Article 48 of the Geneva Convention. Nuclear weapons do not distinguish between a soldier and a child. In other words, they are illegal to use. It also violates the so-called proportionality principle, that we should not use stronger power than is necessary. I still have that question: why would the Workers' Party agree that Norway should be defended with a weapon that actually violates the Geneva Convention? There are a number of things in this setting that are contradictory: The majority are against nuclear weapons, but they reject the most potent process of disposal. The majority are against nuclear weapons, but they believe that Norway’s security must be based on nuclear weapons. The majority are nuclear weapons, but they don't move a decimal to influence the atomic powers. The majority are against nuclear weapons, but they're hiding behind NATO's agreement to make sure they're still there. The majority of them are nuclear weapons, but at the same time they have nuclear weapons. the Minister of Foreign Affairs has little confidence in the major acts, that there is a new major act in progress. So there's a lot of strange contradictions in this setting. I'm recording that this fight is not over. The working party makes clear cracks. In the last few days, we've seen City Councillor Raymond Johansen in Oslo, who is not an insignificant guy in the Workers' Party, support the ban and also want Oslo to participate in the ICAN campaign. This debate is not over, and we will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e914	We are well told so far that it is the Workers' Party's major representatives who draw the Workers' Party's foreign policy on the Stortinget, regardless of whether it is interesting to seek inspiration from Akershu County or from the City Councillor in Oslo, who I know is not responsible for this part of our social life. But of course – that is freedom of speech. Only to the comments of the representative of the Liv Signe Navarsete: I have to ask if, with this transition to the SV's three proposals – I suppose, they have made three minority proposals – she also draws the comments on which we have cooperated and on which I, as the rapporteur, have incorporated and been very pleased that we have got a common position on, and whether that means that she is standing by or not in the opinion of the committee: ‘The majority underline that NATO’s credible deterrence means that the alliance cannot unilaterally give up nuclear weapons as long as others have them. NATO is essential for Norway’s safety and would be similarly weakened if NATO’s ability to deter was not credible.’ Compared with the statement she made, that signing a treaty of international law that one can hope to bind the parties, it was almost a text of resolution, a signal that one would work for the abolition of nuclear weapons. But then the representative ignores the fact that a Treaty form has been chosen that establishes a ban on an alliance which, in its strategic concept, can also defend itself with nuclear weapons, even though the individual country and participant do not have these weapons. In that category is Norway. That is why this Treaty has been specially structured — of course not deliberately — but it is particularly dangerous to those countries that have refused to develop their own nuclear weapons but are part of a military alliance that makes it impossible to have them themselves but can potentially deter them. So the very concept of deterrence is what Liv Signe Navarsete wants us to sign is unethical. It's a logic I don't understand. I wonder if the explanation for this is that the representative does not understand what is in the Treaty. The Swedish government, on the other hand, has understood this. Although Sweden does not have NATO obligations, they say that Sweden cannot participate. It should also be quite a leader, because it shows that there is something more than NATO membership that limits the signature on the part of Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e928	When I started school, on a small island in North Norway, in 1979, one of the first things we learned – or at least one of the things that made the most impression that we learned – was that we were going to hide under the platters when the flight alarm went. The state developed evacuation plans for the big cities in the north, and bombs were built in all the schools. An entire generation grew up with the fear of nuclear weapons. This is part of our Norse history from the Cold War. Although today we can laugh a little bit of that we learned that just we hid under the pits, everything would go well, and although my children have not grown up with this anxiety, I am deeply concerned about the serious threat that nuclear weapons pose to the community around the world. SV believes that citizens have the right to live in a world free of nuclear weapons. Any use of nuclear weapons — either deliberately or due to faults or accidents — will have disastrous, extensive and long-term consequences for people, society and the environment. In July 2017, a majority – 122 – of the United Nations Member States adopted a treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons globally. Here Norway, with the Solberg government, chose to stand outside the majority. The NATO countries chose to vote against, along with nuclear powers that we prefer not to compare with, such as the United States. North Korea. In response to their own country voting against a ban on nuclear weapons, people in these countries have reacted by city-by-city deciding that they want to support a ban on nuclear weapons. Cities like Manchester, Los Angeles, Sydney, Hiroshima and Nagasaki are already part of the appeal. In Norway so far Trondheim has participated in the call, and in February Tromsø also joined in. We should be aware that in the run-up to a ban on landmines there was also resistance to a ban there, as is now the case with nuclear weapons. But today, fortunately, has 80 pst. States of the world have signed a ban on landmines. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, there are no legal commitments preventing Norway from joining the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. This is about – as my party leader was about – political will and political courage. There should be Norway, as a peace-loving country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e945	I think we have to remind ourselves of the horrible backcloth in this matter once again. We have nine countries with more than 15 000 nuclear weapons. The United States and Russia alone have about 1,800 ready for short notice. So in a few minutes, we can trigger a ragnarok if the signal is given. A single nuclear warhead, if it was released over a larger city – yes, we know the consequences of it. I don't think any of the nuclear warheads that are today intended to be used – or at least used as they are in the debates – in the deterrence of defence have less explosive power than those that were released over Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. In Europe, five countries have deployed nuclear weapons. It's Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and our alliance partner Turkey. Maybe even worse and more scary is it with all of the nuclear weapons we have on mobile platforms, carried around above and below the ocean surface. This is scary. That's the picture. The Swedish Peace Research Institute, SIPRI, says that our big brother in NATO, U.S.A., will spend $2 billion on upgrading and maintaining his nuclear weapons in the next decade, among other things. by investing in new submarines and developing new long-range rockets and bombers. In the middle of this, we get the discussion about the INF agreement, which breaks down. It is difficult to see that these developments are not very worrying and could lead to even greater pressure on European countries to deploy nuclear weapons in Europe. Maybe we'll get more than the five countries I mentioned on the list of countries that have deployed nuclear weapons. There are major deficiencies in the investigation. There's been a lot of references. We have e.g. not seen – and I think it is quite incomprehensible – that there is some mention of the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons, the consequences of this for the legal order we have ahead of us, risk assessments of accidents, handling and, not least, dissemination, seafaring. Norway cannot accede to the prohibition treaty, it is said, without coming into conflict with NATO membership. It is said several times from the government parties, while the government clearly concludes that there are no legal obstacles to Norway’s being able to join the ban – that is, the political judgements in this, are, of course, that. And they have several excuses, which I can't mention. I think it's sad. We were far ahead. We have been tough in many other areas — such as REDD+, rainforest, oatmeal, seaspray — and we were there in the case of class bombs and landmines. Now I'm not proud to be a foreigner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e958	There are a lot of flakes served from this pulpit. One of the bottles used very often is that Norway is a peace nation. Is it adopted anywhere? The representative of Fagerås said something even stronger: a peaceful country. Yes, I'm happy in peace, but I actually think a lot in other countries too. I think a lot of countries can say they're a peace nation, a peace-loving country. I would like to ask those who believe Norway is a peace-loving country: which country is not peace-loving – apart from Donald Trump's United States, of course, who comes right away? If there are other countries you can point to, for example: in Europe, which is not? Is e.g. Sweden a country of peace? Is that peaceable enough? Congratulations, says the representative Lighthouse. Flax - Is deterrent luck? Did we have luck during the cold war since the Soviet Union did not release any nuclear weapons upon us? Was it luck? Or was it that the United States and NATO stood hard against and had deterrence? Was it simply luck? Does the representative Lysbakken really think it was luck? Yes, then I thank you for that luck instead of having an unhappiness, which would be that something happened. To the representative Lysbakken: Is the world a safer place if the United States, the United Kingdom and France remove their nuclear weapons and China and Russia retain theirs, perhaps together with India, Pakistan, Israel and North Korea? Is the world a safer place? If he's sure that the world is a safer place if three of the 29 NATO countries with which we are under an umbrella are removing his nuclear weapons, I really wonder where the Lysbakken representative belongs, ideologically speaking – if he really believes it is correct. So the representative Lysbakken says that we should push the other countries – please, small Norway should push these countries to disarmament. We're going to join in something that most people may think is in conflict with our commitments within NATO, and then we're going to push these five small countries that have nuclear weapons to give up their nuclear weapons, and they're going to do it right at the same time, because they couldn't do it once in a while -- that was the representative Lightbaking agreed. Think we're sitting in the main hall and discussing this. It's completely meaningless, it won't happen. Then we shouldn't spend two hours here discussing something that we can't have any influence on at all, and that we have no chance of succeeding with either. I encourage the representative Lysbakken and SV to make proposals, and not just try to get to News of the Day eighteen. Because that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e973	When it comes to having playoffs with only the goal of coming to New Year's Eve, I listen to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, for he is the true master in it. There's a lot to learn. I think we might try to clear up a little bit in this debate. It's easy to try to make debates easier for yourself by caricing the other side's point of view. I said in my post, and I repeat it: no one is asking for unilateral disarmament, and neither does the treaty. Therefore, both the representative Tetzschner, the representative Tybring-Gjedde and the representative Huitfeldt can continue to use it as an argument against SV, but when that's not what we're asking for, the argument bites very badly. The Treaty does not require unilateral disarmament. On the contrary, the Treaty intends to press the nuclear powers into mutual disarmament. It will take place in such a way that those countries that do not have nuclear weapons join it first to build up that pressure. If someone, like the representative Tybring-Gjedde, insists that talking about such a pressure is naive, you can ask why the nuclear powers are so violently opposed to the Treaty, why so much political force is used to prevent a single NATO country from joining it. It is, of course, because the delegation of these weapons that the Treaty involves will be seen as a major problem for the great powers that have the weapons. I would like to accept a factual discussion about what is the good path to nuclear disarmament, but I would like to be met with arguments against the arguments we actually have – not the arguments on the right and the Workers' Party would want us to have. I agree that this discussion would have been much easier if we said that NATO should get rid of its nuclear weapons and China and Russia retain theirs. But that is not what this debate is about. The one-sided disarmament argument is invalid, because no one claims it. The argument that the Treaty will weaken the work of verification is invalid because, as has been clearly stated in the consultation round, it is not correct. We have to deal with the political situation, which is that our most powerful allies are fighting against the delegitization of nuclear weapons because nuclear weapons are helping to secure them and all other major powers, which all countries that don't have nuclear weapons don't have. The question is where Norway, which is a small state without nuclear weapons, should stand – obviously on the side of the large majority of the United Nations, who want a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e984	The representative Eide stated that we must show the political will to participate in a process in which the liquidation of the world's nuclear arsenal is the goal. If I thought joining the Prohibition Treaty would be a step in that direction, I think there would be agreement to do so, even here in the Stortinget. The reality is that there will not be a step in the right direction – in particular because the Prohibition Treaty does not oblige the States to accede to the IAEA Additional Protocol, which is extremely important for security controls and verification. Nor does it require the conclusion of the probationary agreement or instructions on how this should actually be done. It has actually been strangely quiet about the Swedish investigation in the debate so far, but let me briefly say something about what the Swedish investigators conclude by: In summary, the Convention does not maintain the standard that Sweden and many of our partners have contributed to developing through 50 years of disarmament work, among others. as regards the need for verification. In several important areas, the Convention does not go in the direction that Sweden has been working for a long time. The Convention does not recognise in a clear and binding manner the NPT, the IAEA’s Additional Protocol or the importance of the termination agreement. Accession to the Convention may reduce the space of a State Party to promote progress in the area of disarmament. Furthermore, it points out that the Convention should be perceived as contributing to real nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation with the preservation of the strategic balance in order to achieve a significant increase in resolution. Finally, the investigation expresses a concern about the NPT regime, i.e. the non-proliferation agreement, because of the Convention. It is serious enough that the promotion of nuclear disarmament, in line with Article 6 of the NPT, is now increasingly being questioned. Fortunately, since the top of the Cold War, we have had a positive development. Based on the latest analyses presented by SIPRI last year, it is estimated that there were more than 70,000 nuclear warheads or nuclear weapons in the world, while the figure is now reduced to about 14 500. We're going to continue our intensive work to get it down further, but at the same time we have to be sure that we have the tools that will actually lead to the removal of nuclear warheads: that we have a verifiable, irreversible disarmament. It must be mutually committed and must contribute to maintaining the strategic balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1003	Yes, Norway is a peace nation. We have been there ever since the establishment of the interparliamentary union, through Nansenhelpen and through participation in a number of peace processes – and we have played a central role. This was also the reason Norway took the humanitarian initiative: to focus on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. But this process took a different turn, partly because, in my opinion, the Norwegian government gave it up. NATO was no longer in the midst of discussions on how this initiative should be carried on. So you went straight to a treaty. There are many who have been involved and compared to the process around mines and landmines. It was a rather different process, because then you had the process first, and then you had the treaty afterwards. And that's what's difficult in this process. I really think the representative Lysbakken says it quite well, because he is really saying that it is not possible for the United Kingdom to join the treaty. For this is not a treaty that is to be part of what the nuclear powers are to join, it is to be a means of pressure. And I think that if we were to sign as NATO countries, it had to be a prerequisite that we also believed that other NATO countries could join this treaty. Then I have to say that I think the representative Lysbakken, next to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, in this discussion has perhaps been the best to caricate and deliberately misunderstand what are the other parties' positions in this matter. We took the humanitarian initiative, but we would never, even when Lysbakken and I were in government, stand in favour of a treaty without a process that was inclusive, and that was in agreement with our NATO commitments in advance. So we disagree with the government parties in this case. Firstly, we wanted to welcome the Treaty. We congratulated the ICAN on the peace prize, because we wanted to focus on the stigma by using nuclear weapons. So I mean there's a room between what the Light Hill means on one side – sign or nothing – and what Tybring-Gjedde means on the other, that here it's almost just saying yes to nuclear weapons and being on the road. Norway can play a different role. Norway played a different role when we took the humanitarian initiative. We should continue this work, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1014	In a dosing way, as usual, the representative Tetzschner doubts whether the centre party has understood anything. It's a little worth commenting on. When the Center Party chose to stand in the middle of the comment with the plural, it was in the pact with our view that disarmament should not happen unilaterally to NATO. It should not be one-sided, as the comment also says. Of course, NATO is decisive for Norway's security, but this agreement will stigmatize nuclear weapons, he states that nuclear weapons are not a legitimate means of fighting. One's supposed to make it a strain. NATO has a unique opportunity to step in to get the other NATO countries to speak and negotiate a real disarmament. Not that the disarmament agreements we have today have led to disarmament. The nuclear weapons states are rusting up, renewing and modernizing their programs. A fundamental question that cannot be addressed is how NATO can progress and show the will and ability to change its nuclear policy to make other nuclear weapons states follow. One when not a value free of nuclear weapons if not at the same time claims it has a strategic value in the security policy. NATO, in its 2010 strategic concept, decided that NATO would work for a world free of nuclear weapons, after the then red-green government had worked to reduce the strategic role of nuclear weapons in the military doctrines of the alliance. Norway should, as part of the alliance, have a special responsibility to work for disarmament and to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons being used. We can do that in close cooperation with other like-minded member countries. There are strong forces in other Member States that want the same thing, for one sees the need for a peaceful development in the world. The red-green government had a grip on this. One was on. An Oslo conference was held to raise this issue. Unfortunately, that work has stopped with this government. It's very sad and sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1029	It is claimed in this debate that a ban is impossible and that this agreement is not suitable for the decommissioning of nuclear weapons. It's also claimed that it's not possible to do this because the major powers don't want to be involved, and it challenges our NATO cooperation. Some people also claim in this debate that the world is actually getting less secure with such a ban. I think it's important that we learn a little bit of the story. It's not like we can't ban weapons. In fact, we have a long history that weapons that have shown that they violate humanitarian law have been banned. It works very well. We have banned biological weapons, we have banned chemical weapons, we have banned land mines, and we have banned class weapons. Hand in hand in this room – those who believe that these bans have not worked. I don't see any hands in the weather. Everyone agrees that these bans have worked. And one more thing: all these prohibitions were attempted by other NATO countries, by our allies, especially when it came to the work of banning the class weapons. Then I myself was Secretary General of Norwegian People's Aid, and we worked intensively on it. I'm going to promise that there was intense lobbying from the US authorities and from the US industry to try to stop this ban. The process was attempted to make fun of it. We in civil society, also in cooperation with the Norwegian authorities, believed that a ban was important even if the major acts and our alliance partners were not involved. The United States, for example, did not want this. However, if we did manage to ban these weapons, it would put so much pressure on these countries that they ended, for example. using class bombs. The ban on class bombs has been a phenomenal success. Class bombs have hardly been used. Those who use it today are so-called non-governmental actors. States don't use it, they don't buy it in. And the biggest producers in the world, like Lockheed Martin in the United States, have stopped producing these weapons. We have to learn a little bit from the story. We're going to ban weapons that violate humanitarian law, and that's what nuclear weapons do. And these bans work!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1042	To the last post, I must say that Petter Eide's short-term memory must be suitable to bring concern, at least in his closest circles. We have recently experienced that the Assad regime has used chlorine gas against its own population, while those who received the criticism were the ones who, after the UN Charter, had the opportunity to bomb the factory offices that made this capacity possible. Then I heard nothing outside except the United States. But that's it. In this discussion, there has been a number of misapprehensions in international law, for it is particularly apparent from the representative of Navarsete's second post that she does not understand what she really recommends. I understand it so that she maintains the note that NATO must have nuclear weapons as long as others do, but what she then recommends is a UN treaty which in the first paragraph just says that it is forbidden to join alliances that have nuclear weapons in their arsenal as part of their defence concept. So she's simply suggesting that we commit ourselves to breaking NATO's strategic concept. Then you can – in a couple of years – imagine how SV and probably also the Center Party will attack the government because we, for example. not reporting us out of NATO, because on paper we will still support under NATO's strategic concept. So this is what has been promoted in the debate on whether you can formally join NATO and sign the treaty. It's there black excellent by the Foreign Minister here, but for those who want to study this more closely, I'll recommend Prop. 1 S for 2018-2019, State Budget, Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, page 181, column 2. It just says from the government that it is formally possible to maintain membership in NATO and nevertheless to accede to a treaty that makes it impossible for us to support under NATO's political cooperation and strategic concept. That's the dualism I see that the Workers' Party also has a twist in its posts here. I was very pleased that we had a broad and unified attitude, and I still think that it is the comments and not least the conclusion that binds the committee position together – to the relief of all defence friends in Norway. The posts of the committee chairman must be seen in the context of the internal difficulties of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1056	The representative Audun Lightbox has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1061	It was Huitfeldt's post that made me redraw. I have not caricured anything, but I reserve the right to be clearly disappointed in where the Workers' Party is located. I have simply greater expectations for the Workers' Party in this matter than I have for the Right. We have seen from previous rounds of the Treaty that the Workers' Party has been in an intermediate position, one of which has not been ready to sign the Treaty yet, but has wanted to express itself clearly in favour of it and play a constructive role. I feel that the Workers' Party has left that line, and we are disappointed about that. A user does not use this opportunity to mark such an intermediate position, which is the working party, for example. be able to do so by supporting our proposal that Norway participate as an observer at the meetings of the States Parties. There is simply no trace of any initiatives in this direction. It is not we as caricers; it is the Workers' Party that surrenders. The right side stands together, and the rest of the red-green side stands where the working party should stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1068	The representative Petter Eide had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1073	I'm challenged by the representative Tetzschner when he claims I have no memory of Syria's warfare against its own people. I believe that the ban on class weapons and chemical weapons has also worked for Syria. I know that Syria has used this, but precisely because of that ban, we got – when we discovered that Assad used chemical weapons – in place a massive, international almost extermination and removal of chemical weapons in Syria. It was Norwegian ships that carried the weapons out of Syria, precisely because we had an international agreement in our back. Similarly, there has been massive criticism of Syria for the use of class weapons, and it has been precisely the international prohibition that has allowed the world community to stand together on an international criticism of Assad's use of class weapons. We must insist that banning a weapon enables the international community to criticise the countries that both have, produce and intend to use these weapons. Therefore, prohibition is very important and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1082	The representative Annik Huitfeldt has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1087	This case has been in Stortinget many times. To the representative Tetzschner I would like to say that there was quite strong criticism from a large majority that Norway left the humanitarian initiative and has not been on this path. I still want to maintain criticism of the government for that, but it's too late to do anything about it now. What's the situation, is that SV asks us to sign. This matter is very different from the issues of class weapons and mines. Norway was itself a class weapon state when we took this initiative, and the class weapons states were in the direction of a ban. This is something completely different. Then it's like, when we're going to sum up this case today, that I support a long-term work against a ban, but then it has to be balanced, mutually and verifiable. So there's only one party in this room now that supports signing this treaty, and that's SV. Then we have some different assessments of how we're going to work with disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1096	Just a brief remark to my good colleague Petter Eide: it is true that in the event of memory loss, especially short-term memory, it is the most recent impressions that are not fixed, while those who came two or three years ago have a greater chance of survival. I understand that has happened in the case of the representative Petter Eide, because he refers to the successful transport of chemical weapons that happened – among other things. Norwegian aid – but what he has not received – is that after it was thought that all stocks had been emptied, and that even the Assad regime had been brought in on the right road, they had chlorine gas capacity, which was only the United States that was able to take out, on the basis of international law. Then we heard nothing from SV. I understand that it's distorted, and I hope it's not cognitive weaknesses that cause it, but that it's due to the usual selective historical memory that we're still seeing affecting SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1101	Then Left joins in the debate – a little late, but hopefully well. Last week the tension between the nuclear powers of India and Pakistan increased. Two Indian fighter planes were shot down and a pilot captured. In addition, the two countries have exchanged fire in Kashmir. This is a reminder of how important it is for the world community to do something to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The consideration of the issue we are debating today confirms something that we have feared for a long time, that Norway is a large majority against joining the UN Nuclear Prohibition Agreement. It is argued that it would not be politically compatible with Norway’s NATO membership and that a ban is worthless as long as the nuclear weapons States themselves do not comply with the ban. It is unfortunate that the majority in this case does not see the scope for agreeing to the agreement and that the majority does not recognise that joining the agreement could contribute to the rescuing and disarmament of Europe and could therefore also contribute to NATO's objective of a world in peace. The government's investigation is highly professional and draws up a number of exciting debates. It clearly shows that there are no legal obstacles to Norway’s accession to the Treaty, but that, on the other hand, there are political considerations that have led the government to conclude that it is against signing the prohibition agreement. What political assessment we are going to make is up to us elected representatives. I am therefore convinced that the government's investigation will be the starting point and not the finish line for a longer debate on how Norway can best contribute to disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, we have to admit today that the majority has made a mistake in signing a ban and that Norway will not join the prohibition treaty with the first. That gives us two possibilities: We have to work to change the political landscape in Norway, so that several of the major parties who today say no to the ban on nuclear weapons say yes to the next major elections. At the same time, we must not be blind to the prohibition treaty. There are many ways of disarmament, and we can't say, 'no atomic ban or nothing'. The left has saved support for many who work with disarmament and non-proliferation. The Government Platform signals that the support is now to be reformed so that it becomes a fair application-based system. Civil society will play a key role in defining the debate in the coming years, and it is therefore important that the government supports these voices. The dissolution of the INF Agreement is a major blow to international disarmament. It is obvious that Russia has caused the collapse through repeated breaches of the agreement, but the result is equally full of tragedy for NATO and Norway. Since the agreement was concluded in 1987, many new nuclear weapons countries have unfortunately emerged. The Nordic countries and Norway can take a leading role and show that sedative measures are possible and that resuscitation in a new era is still on the wall. We can be a bridge builder between east and west if we dare. Norway has been a groundbreaking country in the field of nuclear disarmament verification, and in this field there is much more we can do together. All of this must not be disappointed that Norway does not accede to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons during this period of mass destruction. The ban is a tool to achieve disarmament, but is still just one of several possible pathways to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons. We have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at once, and there is no contradiction in working to revitalise the NPT and at the same time argue that Norway is going to join the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1127	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1143	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six rows of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1152	The aim of this investigation has been to assess the work of the government so far carried out to reduce the planning time for large-scale transport projects. The study covers investment projects of more than 750 million. kr on national road and rail in the period from 2010 to 2017. The Ministry of Transport calculates in 2012 that the total planning period was about 10 years, and in the national transport plan for 2014-2023, a target for halving the planning period was clearly expressed. This objective was continued in the current national transport plan, for 2018–2029, but now expressed as an objective of improving the efficiency of planning processes and reducing planning time. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the overarching and long-term objectives of transport policy, while the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation manages planning and building laws and the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the system of government distribution and external quality assurance of design choices, cost estimates and management documents for large investment projects. The main findings of the National Audit Office conclude that: The planning time for large transport investments has not been reduced. It is unlikely that the planning time for large-scale transport projects will be significantly reduced with today's tools and planning systems. The planning system has implemented extensive distribution and clear participation requirements. Important reasons for long planning periods are not met by measures taken by the Governing Board. The study points to four key reasons for long planning periods in the projects examined: Correspondence travelled during the planning process has resulted in an extension of planning time, including: because it takes longer to deal with the plan in the municipality, that remedial measures must be removed, mediation rounds at the County Council and the management of countersigns in the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation. The distribution work has been more extensive and has taken longer than originally planned when the planning work started in the projects. This will be the case, among other things. of changes in plan entries during the course of the journey and the need for more details in connection with countersigns. The planning process of several projects has been delayed or implemented less effectively as a result of low or missing priorities in the national transport plan. The study shows that conflicts of interest that are not resolved by the municipality’s planning process can lead to new treatment rounds of plans and trasés already adopted. Some of the measures, such as more targeted and targeted use of KVU, the use of quality assurance for choice of concepts, increased use of government plans, planning without a municipal plan and tightening practices in the event of contradictions, could contribute to a shorter planning period. However, these measures do not reduce the planning time in cases where new treatment rounds and unexpected stops occur in planning processes that result from low or change the priority of the NTP project portfolio. Exemptions from the KVU/KS1 do not automatically reduce planning time following the Riksrevision, because the work with the subsequent planning phase can become more extensive, with professional analysis and analysis. In practice, mitigation of contradictions has little impact on the planning time of the projects where legitimate interests are opposed to each other, and planning processes can be extended for several years because conflicting concerns and interests are not resolved through the planning process of the municipalities. The use of government plans is more frequent, but the use of government plans is still too low, and there may be a conflict of objectives between increased use of government plans and increased municipal self-government. When the municipalities as a plan image are not bound by previous plan decisions and the state does not act as a plan picture, large road and track projects can be extended for many years. The Riksrevision believes it is critical that the state does not actively intervene and clarify where planning processes for important transport measures stop. A joint committee agrees with the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation must ensure better coherence between planning processes. However, greater achievement in this field also depends on better coordination between the two departments and not least with the Ministry of Finance, which governs with the large KVUs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1206	First of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur. He has presented in a very good way a global attitude from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I think, regardless of what party color we have, that everyone is very concerned about that here we have to do something. Ten years, as it says, it was found in 2012 that the total planning time was, and that we are still there, is not good enough. No one's happy about it. Of course, it is a value in Norway that people should have the opportunity to protest, have the opportunity to disagree with the plans that come about on large-scale travel projects from the state. It is a value that municipalities can raise their objections. It's a value that it's the municipalities that regulate. And it's a value that we have a living democracy also around major transportation projects. But ten years I think everyone agrees is too long when there are large, important, necessary projects for the state to implement. I am pleased that we then have a government that has been clear that we should probably apply a more general government plan – not because it is an objective in itself to overrun local democracy, but it is such that sometimes there are some concerns that are so important to the state and to the big community that we must actually get ahead of the planning process that we have today. I feel that we have received very good and clear signals from the government on it, and I am pleased that both the Councils of State do so, on both transport and municipal matters, are clear that they want to follow the recommendations of the Riksrevision, to which an overall committee has joined. Then I hope that in a few years' time, when this might go down in the seams again, we will have come further, and that we will have reduced the total time. I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport is present today. He will certainly say something about how he intends to follow this up. But it's like we who are in this room have been politicians at all levels, many of us, both locally, municipally and in the state, and we understand why some things take time too – we have an understanding of it. But we have also realized that the Ministry of Finance has quite a number of words in it in terms of these types of projects, to ensure quality and to ensure that our tax credits are used sensibly. And that's good. It is good that you ensure quality and see that the projects are reasonable projects, and that the money is used correctly. But at the same time, there is also a lot of money for planning. The government we now have has increased heavily the budgets related to planning costs in order to have accelerated projects. It costs a lot of money. If we reduce the planning time, we'll most likely save money. So I think we should also give a clear signal to our competent finance minister and our competent people in the Ministry of Finance that quality assurance is both good and good, but it is in everyone's interest, including the government, that we will reduce the planning time as it is today. I hope that signal from Stortinget is clear. It is a unanimous increase today that wants us to cut the planning process and cut the time spent and also the cost usage associated with it. I am pleased that we have such a clear order in the Committee's comments, as an overall committee is behind, and as the rapporteur has explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1221	The transport system here to land is important for each of us who want to get from a to b, whether we want to take the train or use our car. In addition, it is crucial for our business to have good roads that allow goods and goods to be transported on the market. Therefore, as was initially said here, it has been a cross-political desire to reduce time use and to streamline the planning process in large-scale transport projects. It started under the government of Stoltenberg, which included a separate chapter on efficiency improvement and better project organisation in its national transport plan for 2014-2023. In that transport plan, there was a clear objective of halving the planning time for large investment projects and of better coordination. As early as 2011, an idiosyncrasy was launched to see what could be done to make planning processes more efficient. Already at that time, good project management, good information and dialogue between stakeholders, committed cooperation in order to keep progress and gain counter-interest. The less time you spend on conflicts of interest, that is. that these have been clarified before a seat starts, the better so that one can reduce the time spent in the regulatory planning phase. Right that bit is very important. A common understanding of the objectives and not least the priority of the project is crucial. The time horizon in NTP is 12 years, and in itself it is a delaying process. The requirements for investigation 10 to 15 years before the start of construction are simply requirements that stimulate long-term planning. The fight for NTP plans and shifts often leads to changing assumptions and duplications. The same applies to processes initiated in the context of cost management, which in reality have often reduced the level of ambition with poorer solutions. This slows down processes, as the assumptions for the municipal plans change. The National Audit Office's report says that one is still far from the goal, to reduce time use significantly, and that is regrettable. The four main reasons for long-term planning have been referred to earlier, but the Riksrevision has pointed out that reducing the influence of municipalities will have the greatest effect. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that more use should be made of government plans. The centre party disagrees with such an erosion of municipal autonomy. Three years ago, the NHO was given a report on how to reduce planning time in the transport project to five years. The conclusion in Vista Analysis is about the same. It is almost surprising to see how much agreement is reached that only the municipalities lose their influence, planning will go faster. State plan should only be used exceptionally. From our point of view, we have faith that municipalities will play a role in the development of investment projects. In the vast majority of cases, these are lengthened roads, bridges, tunnels, railways and airports, many of which have been waiting for years. On the part of the Central Party, we believe that it is the government leaders who should be relaxed, not the municipal involvement. When the big community comes and demands its place, it would just be missing if the municipalities and their inhabitants who notice the consequences of this were not included. The centre party has long demonstrated that the government does not have the power to fill the municipal reform with content. There is talk in large words and speeches about more trust in local politicians and more room for action for the municipalities, but in the planning of transport, therefore, one should sit back and be deprived of power and authority. By short-term termination of the municipalities in the planning process, it will be possible to calculate an increase in planning time later in the process, as pointed out by the case-rapporteur. It is important that regulatory and municipal plans are treated at the same time. This is where the conflicts of interest need to be resolved. Increased use of digitisation is essential for simultaneous planning. Today, the state has mechanisms to enable one to go through the major projects both once and twice, and we therefore agree with the conclusion of the NHO report, namely the willingness and ability to go straight at the regulatory level after the development of KS1. There is no lack of reports and investigations addressing the challenges of planning time in major transport projects. We have pointed to the NHO report, and we believe it is time that we now ensure that we take the reports up from the drawer. We believe in more interaction, but that the rationalization gain lies primarily with the state itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1238	I'm not going to spend five minutes, but I want to mention a few points. There's no one here in the room who doesn't want any shorter planning time. I can't say I've seen or heard any such signals. It's a desired goal. The question is what is going on at the expense of. I guess it's that simple. One direction is to discuss whether it is at the expense of local democracy, as the Central Party points out. That's a point. The second point is that all aspects are taken into account, not least that the laws and regulations that we have adopted here in the Chamber are taken into account. Not least on transportation, we build up and build up, we divide up and fill out quite a lot of Norwegian nature, Norwegian cultural land, Norwegian cultivated land. We do that, and then there's a lot of considerations that are intersecting. That's it, we know that, but does it have to take ten years? That's the big question. I just want to point out that those who want e.g. greater local democracy, larger local plans, not state regulation, must also take on board that then we may need a good and strengthened opposition institution. Then it crashes for someone here in the hall. It's now that the objector we have can delay processes. Of course it does. But there the government has done something good, including to coordinate state objections and public objections in general. I think that's good. That's what you've done, and that's one of the ways of getting the length of the objections down. So the question is, State or local? That's what you have to take into account, and take into account that there are some far-reaching projects where it's obviously come so far or it's been going on locally, that state regulation is always natural. I've seen some projects like this. I guess I might be allowed to mention rv. 23 in Lier, now E134 – then it is mentioned from this pulpit. I just want to say it like this -- it's just important for me to mention it here -- that the institution of objection is important. I'm in on any proposal that could shorten the planning time. It is just as if it has also been incorporated some sort of – what we should call it – bad habit in terms of budgeting and planning, that it is taken into account that there is so long planning time that budgetary resources are not made available until much later, because that is what it takes so long to plan. This is a little bit of a chicken and egg -- a little bit of an evil circle. But if everyone wants a measure of shorter planning, the matter is okay. Then the government gets to take the initiative. The state councils that this applies have to come back with some suggestions, and we'll look at them. We're completely open to it, but it doesn't have to be at the expense of important considerations, and it's planning. I just met some young people who were wearing t-shirts that read the "Hey, the investigation manual." I notice that some laughs of this right here, and that was also meant, but that's actually a point. I'm also a part of planning, good planning, because we're going to be managing this country for so many hundred years in the future, given the next generations. This is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1257	I believe that the Riksrevision has done a good and solid job of documenting the time involved in planning a major transport project. That is, as far as I have an overview of, not doing such a thorough evaluation of the planning page that this document we are dealing with today is an example of. That means that in sum I think it has been useful to see the assessments that the Riksaudition has made, at the same time there is a need to nuance some single elements. As we have also done well for the Riksrevision, we believe that once we have measured our projects, we have not seen in all areas the potential benefits of actions that have been implemented. Several have already been in increased use of government plans. To what extent it will actually help to reduce the planning time, we will see when the plans are completed. A lot of the actions and projects where we have chosen to use a government plan are not yet. That means that we hope it should be one of the effective grips. It is quite right that the case spokesperson was in, that it is not obvious that granting an exemption from KVU, for example. and going straight ahead will reduce the planning time, but we have actually seen examples of not starting to plan for an alternative one in any case that doesn't believe a need, affecting both the costs of planning and the ability to go faster in the planning phase. On the other hand, a choice can't do it where it's actually conceptual choices and one lands it. The grip that the government has done to go directly from KVU to the regulatory plan is a good example of that. Not least, I think that the link we have established after we reorganized the road sector, for example, where New Roads have come in, means that we have a direct connection between each user's planning agent, how quickly we can plan a final project, and what time it will start. To date, there has been a good signal about a more efficient planning process, regardless of whether the planning process is state-owned or municipal, precisely because the link between progress in planning and the realisation of the project becomes stronger. For this reason, I think that some of the council's councils are also worth taking with us at the time we're going into – especially when we're about to create a new national transport plan. It is quite right, as many people have pointed out, that there are conflicts of purpose. Reduced planning time is important, but cost management and control of the money we are going to use is also important for our ability to actually build projects and not just plan them. This means that one of the things we might have to look at is just a stronger link between what time you get schedule resources and what time you intend to realize the project – so that we do not first allow planning resources to a series of projects that will accumulate in a queue and wait for funding. There are such debates we really need to have in the new process of national transport plan. How can we take action that provides sensible incentive structures, so that there are no simple decisions in the individual cases that ultimately determine our ability to reduce the planning time, but that all the underlying companies and all those responsible for implementing the plan and the development actually have an incentive to project optimization every time and in that way both reduce the planning time and get more money back when we make investments in the infrastructure? This report provides us with useful information. He shows too low a target for the projects they have been through. Some of them are old, and some of them are newer. But at least it shows that the target conflict many here are targeting is the basis for continuing to hold high pressure in the forthcoming national transport plan. It's the government's plan. This government is busy building the country – and we intend to build it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1279	In their letters of reply, the Councils of State say to the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Transport – individually, both – that they will follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office with a view to reducing planning time. That's very good. However, greater achievement in this field depends on better coordination between these two departments, and in addition this should be coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the arrangements for government distribution and external quality assurance of design choices, cost estimates and management data for large investments. How does the Council of State view this? We can say a lot about America, but there's a lot of them in all the 'United States'. Can the Council of State get these three central'states' to hang together, to really deliver what the Riksrevision wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1284	It could almost seem as if the representative had bad experience – from the time they were in government – of the fact that government councils are talking. Fortunately, I can confirm that we are doing that in today's government. It is still a potential for improvement, but as other representatives already have our way into the pulpit today, we are dealing with the grip that we have done, for example. To coordinate the objections, to try to get it into processes that allow us to reduce the amount of time we spend on it, and not least sort what is important, and what is less important. We're going to be able to do well across the departments that have different responsibilities in this, but common interest. Because there's a lot of money going on for planning, and neither I, the Minister of State or the Minister of Finance are very happy to spend if that's not necessary. There are delays in projecting if a user is too long. That's precisely why I say that there are several approaches we now need to consider, including in the forthcoming national transport plan, in order to create a sensible incentive structure that makes one less dependent on individual decisions, but can be implemented based on what makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1289	I've mixed my experience, and I'm assuming that the Council of State also has. Not least, both in the lines and between the lines of what the Riksrevision suggests, they have a somewhat different view of it in these departments. I think it is very good that the Council of State says that one will win by getting this better coordinated. We're only allowed to follow along, and then we hope it'll work out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1295	I have a life motto that either goes well, or it goes over. Fortunately, in the vast majority of cases, things are going well. Here it has been a heavy job to do. It is still there, but it is also the case that the departments have different views and there are several representatives in it. It's worth bringing it too. I am to optimize the short-term planning time at most in each single project. At the same time, there are sometimes very demanding weighings that need to be made, where the Ministry of Local Affairs has some interests, where climate and environmental interests are some others, and where not least the need for cost control when a project is realised is a third important dimension. All of this we have to bring with us, and it's a demanding job. The question is, can we do it in five years? That's what I think I should be able to do, but then we have to make sure that we're not dependent on political interference in individual decisions, but that it's political incentives to optimize all the plan projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1300	Will the Council of State work more systematically to exempt planners from the impact assessment and quality assurance document, of which we really see a lot? And how, then, will the Council of State help to avoid the subsequent phases of planning, which could become more extensive, which he himself had in mind, because some of the questions thus arise? How will the Council of State focus on the two things?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1305	We're going to reduce the planning time, but it's not supposed to be worse, it's got to be better. We don't need to be less aware of the consequences, we need to have a more comprehensive overview of the consequences, because we actually optimize the planning processes without losing knowledge that we need as decision makers, either in the municipality when implementing a municipal plan and regulation plan, or there should be a government plan. And it's quite decisive and something I feel that more parties say they're busy with. So if the answer is that if we do worse, we get to the goal faster, that's the wrong answer. That's the wrong answer. We have to make sure to maintain the quality of planning on one side and optimize the planning processes on the other, and that's what's decisive. The most important way to ensure that we realize infrastructure projects is that they are well planned. This means that we haven't planned a project for 11 billion. kr, which costs 30 billion. kr on the day it is completed – because then it can be finely effective with two months shorter planning period. But to weaken our common ability to realize infrastructure projects – we can't get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1310	The councils were talking about the incentive arrangements instead, and the council was concerned that people were going to see the light in the tunnel, as I perceived it, so they were going to understand what they were going to plan for. Does the Council of State believe that the new way of managing the NTP process that you have now signaled, with a steering group directly under the Ministry, will lead to faster decisions and better consistency between the plan, implementation and, not least, the maintenance and the type of thing to do on major projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1315	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1320	The President must commend the Council of State for their clear, short answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1325	I hear the Council of State says he wants to have quality, optimise the planning process. No one here disagrees. I think it's obvious. We've discussed quality here in the hall quite many times during transportation, I'm not going to get into it. But what's quality now? Quality criteria, we've heard, so these are pretty important questions, and I have a concrete follow-up to it. The institution of objection, as I mentioned from the pulpit, is quite essential. If the planning period is to be shortened, will the government, and at least on the part of the Council of State, be able to see that they will in some way further restrict the powers of the institution of objection?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1330	I'm busy making a sensible incentive structure. One of the areas where we're lucky is the establishment of New Roads. People who are planning authorities in the projects they realize know that if they don't make sure they have a high pressure on the implementation of planning phases, it affects the investment time in the portfolio of the company. This makes us get effective planning processes. This means that New Vegar himself says that it's not always a matter of whether it's a government plan or a municipal plan, but that they can actually say that if they're not ready by that date, we have to use the money somewhere else, because there they were ready. It gives reasonable incentive structures. There are not all games in this set up for. On the contrary, all the reforms that have taken place in the transport sector have been opposed by a great many of the parties in this process – but they provide sensible incentive structures. We have to keep working on that. Then we're still going to coordinate the contradictions. There isn't sure one should be able to contradict in the same matter several times, but in sum we have to be able to maintain the interests of the counterinstitution, and we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1335	Just as with coordination, I have given the government the brunt of, and I can support that. What was the question, which was not answered clearly, and with which I believe the Council of State understood the purpose, is for example. consideration of the natural diversity law, which has often been drawn in as a negative clasp about the foot when it is to be extended. It has been mentioned in different ways, what do we say, attachment circuits, in moody circles and contexts, that for example. a hub, or there may be a sponge on the iron, shall stop an extension. This has been mentioned quite many times, but it's actually serious behind it. The land management is like that if we make it wrong, and probably very much indicates that that's what's behind that 60 pst. of all animal fauna in the world has disappeared in the last 40 years – land management. The question is then again: does the Council see that objections, including: from the State, may be essential in such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1340	Yes, it may still be that countersigns are necessary, but then we have to have effective processes to clarify them. Sometimes it's the way nature and environmental interests win, and sometimes it's the way they don't. What I'm experiencing is the whole point of the discussion we're currently having is how long we're going to spend on those processes that somebody's taking a decision. That's what I'm busy saying we need to optimize in the future. We have to be able to handle all the interests. We have to be able to have an adequate overview of the impact of the decisions we make, and then we have to be able to take decisions that will make us move on. It's what I'm busy at, that this process has to be about, not poor planning, not less understanding of the consequences, but faster decisions and continuous incentive structures in all the underlying businesses to get the clarifications in as early a phase as possible, so that we don't spend an extra amount of time that we didn't have to worry about. That's what the job is in the months and years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1345	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1353	The planning system shall ensure that good holistic solutions are chosen and that long-term considerations and socio-economic efficiency are respected. Such effective planning, according to the Transport Committee, is essential to meet ambitions for the transport sector. But the Riksrevision study shows that it takes on average three years and three months from the Ministry of Transport to order a KVU until the government has decided further planning, so as I see it, there is a good potential for a reduction in planning time only within tightening up the command lines between the Ministry of Transport and the government. To put this into a concrete perspective, work on building new E6 from the state border between Trøndelag and Nordland – and Saltberget – has come a long way. It's a good work that's going on almost all of the distance. But now it is decided that the two southernmost parcels of approx. 9 km not to be built, and it is totally unacceptable to finish work on the south Helgeland until this stretch is completed. Postponing this work will entail considerable additional costs, so the government needs to find the necessary means to complete the entire E6 Helgeland South according to the initial progress plan. To withdraw this to the right of objection and the planning and participation of the municipalities: there were major discussions in Grane, for the local government was very clear that the road had to be laid in Svenningåsen and not in Ner-Svenningdal, for which Vegvesenet and Fylkesmannen agreed. This lack – what to say – the understanding of what local knowledge can lead to, has helped to make this more expensive, and has done so that not all the way is completed. I think this doesn't provide a good overall solution, it's not socio-economically effective, and it's not long-term. So I think making such distances complete will make the situation much easier when the next national audit report comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1364	The findings of such an investigation are important for one to follow up on concrete actions, as proposed here. We look at a number of areas of activity where the departments are too incoherent. When we ask, one department doesn't know what another believes or has said – or they don't know where the case is. There is a significant potential for better cross-ministerial cooperation. The State plan has been identified as an option, but it should then be put into system. When, for example, look at the E39 in Agder and Rogaland – where the state level has been chosen for one part – New Roads are still waiting for a clear signal, and now three years have passed. There it is that intermunicipal cooperation seems to work much better. Nevertheless, the main reason for long planning times is low or lack of priority. One stops planning because of a lack of funds, or one starts a new order – the plan will be out of date. One example from home is electrification of the Trønderbanen. It is placed in the drawer, then to be picked up again and put down again – and now the 40 pst trainset is ordered. more expensive than one would have needed if the track had been electrified according to the plan. Work on NTP and the decisions there must commit more than it does today. Today’s national transport plan is ambitious, more ambitious than today’s government has funded. Already in the second year of the current plan, the government is 16 billion. kr after what they have planned. Projects are thus abandoned or kept active in new means of planning. This is neither effective, economical nor predictable – and not least many out there are disappointed. Finally, one is that the department must work more fully and together, and the other is to get a more committed and predictable NTP. The findings here give a unique opportunity if one really will get more out of each krona and a faster progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1375	Governments use New Roads as an example, which is being drawn in many contexts, and there are good examples of how time spent on transport projects has been reduced, so the picture is not completely black. However, in some areas, projects have been delayed due to the creation of New Roads, such as: E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand, which was to open in July this year. Had the state's roadway system been able to continue, it would have been completed earlier than in the autumn. Now that's not the problem, because we know the answer to that -- it's that you needed time to rig up New Ways to implement the project. What is my approach to this is that when the government set up New Roads, one of the objectives was that road construction would be more efficient. For the time being, we cannot say for sure whether they have succeeded. The centre party has said that we want an evaluation of New Vee’s projects to see if they work in a way that the State Road Service can also use. It may seem that some of the framework conditions New Roads work under today, allowing them to build more efficiently than the State Road Service does. New roads may allow entrepreneurs to be active in the preparation of a regulatory plan. State-owned companies are exempt from the internal quality assurance system of the State – for New Veger, this may in practice mean an impact assessment II. This provides opportunities for large savings both in time and in economic terms. This is the largest Nye Veier has in relation to the State Road Administration, and it can mean a saving of 10 p.p. in the order of 10 p.p., in addition it shortens the implementation time of a project by up to two years. We see it as positive, but I also think it is important in such an evaluation that the State Road Service gets the same framework conditions, so that more projects can be implemented – if you think this is a good way to do it. A little back to government plans: everyone has argued that government plans are not necessarily the answer to everything – although there are some who have pointed it out quite strongly in the investigation that has been presented to us. I just want to mention a happy case from Sørlanden, namely the intercommunal cooperation on the route Dørdal-Grimstad on the E18. There, Bamble, Kragerø, Gjerstad, Riser, Tvedestrand, Arendal and Grimstad have agreed to establish inter-municipal planning cooperation. They have set up a joint board for the project, and it works well. Now in January, the planning programme was established, and for the autumn, the draft plan is to be adopted in all six municipalities. So it is possible to get together to agree, and perhaps to avoid the introduction of these state plans, which should only be implemented exceptionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1384	I thought it was good to speak in this debate, because many of us have a speedy time from both local policy – for my part as rapporteur – and from county policy, and now from Stortinget, and we have experienced this with planning time from different political levels. When I – almost speaking – started my political career as rapporteur in a small municipality, I experienced the need to coordinate public objections over and over again, because there was a significant handicap in our work locally to develop regulatory plans. In any case, whether there are road projects or other types of projects does not play such a large role. The main point of public objection is precisely to be coordinated so that the State can speak with one voice when objecting to a case or using the opposition institution. The second point – which, for my part, is also very positive – is to use the state plan more. It has not been said that we need to use state level everywhere, but where state plan helps to speed up decision-making processes and make them both faster and better, I think we should use state plan for large national projects, precisely because it is about cutting down planning time and increasing implementation power. This is not something seductive, sedentary. In many cases, municipalities are doing this in a good way. But where there's a need for that, where there's a great deal of disagreement between the municipalities, and where you might cross some county boundaries, we also see that government plans can have an effect. So until what I really think is the core of getting faster planning and faster implementation, and it's about predictability. The reason why we can develop New Roads as an example is precisely predictability, because there is a predictability between the planning processes and the start time of the individual sections and the individual projects. It's important to get effective planning. One of our major challenges is that we, from this room, as big-scale politicians, have been far too happy to prioritise in detail, on a distance, in the national transport plan. The example referred to here, Arendal–Tvedestrand, is just an example of planning a stretch without seeing the whole thing all the way up between Oslo and Kristiansand, more or less. What is happening now is that the whole stretch between Oslo and Kristiansand is being developed more or less coherently and much more efficiently than what would be done through a more detailed and stretchy – or at least piecewise and divided – planning. I think we have to go a little bit in ourselves as big-time politicians for our own sake. In order to give priority to the national transport plan, we must stop thinking in such detail, stop running political re-elections on what we ourselves decide – we need to raise ourselves up and plan overall and strategically in the national transport plan. This will also allow the State Road Service – or New Roads, as appropriate – to implement projects much more effectively and in line with professional recommendations. I think it might be the key to more efficient planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1397	There's a lot of good posts here. I think a lot of people are involved in this question. The National Audit Office's investigation was interesting reading. There has been some attention to what it says, that the planning time has not fallen. What I thought, however, was even more interesting, and what we should notice to an even greater extent, is that it is «a little likely» that the planning period in the future will go down «with today’s instruments and planning system». It's the most serious and the most interesting. So we all have here – and in particular the government, as executive – a big challenge in getting something done about this. Let me share some thoughts, without calling on me to have answers and face all these challenges. I think a contributing reason why it takes a long time to plan, too, as was mentioned by someone else here, is that the capture of, the access to or – what to say – the launch of new projects is larger than what the purse is. I would just like to see all of the concept selection studies, the KVUs, which have been initiated in recent years, but as there is no funding available in the existing national transport plan. I think that is very, very many. When a job starts with a draft selection investigation, it's often understandable that now we're on, or now this road project is coming soon. I think we need to look at the use of concept selection studies as an instrument. So I'll connect a few words to this with the state plan, which also several people have been involved in. It's good that it's been moderated, because very often in the public debate it's been made as if it's just using the government plan, it's going much faster. That's not necessarily right in my opinion. Very often, there is some government agency that has objections to a plan. Different state agencies have different objections to different alternatives. The Committee was in the new year on the South. In Aust-Agder we heard from Nye Veier, and we have heard the same from the State Road Administration in the past, that one has very good experience with inter-municipal planning, i.e. that several municipalities – because very often roads pass through several municipalities – sit down together with Nye Veier or the State Road Service and contractor to plan together. So this might be something that we should use more often: intermunicipal planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1412	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1428	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1437	The proposition we have for treatment concerns changes to the Road Traffic Act §§ 24 and 43. I will go through the various proposals in a point-by-point manner. The state road system has detected relatively many cases of fraud during the driving test and there is reason to believe that there has been a significant increase in the more advanced forms of fraud. In today’s legislation, a two- and four-week quarantine is applied when deleting for the driving test, respectively. The same rules apply where the candidate does not pass the driving test due to cheating. Although fraud is reported in some cases, the proposal is that the quarantine period in case of fraud is changed to one year. This is a unanimous agreement. It is time to say more clearly from the fact that cheating is not acceptable. The next proposal is to set the quarantine period for the driving test to two months. Today, the regulation says two and four weeks respectively, as mentioned. The minority, which consists of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, believe this is an unfortunate change. Unfortunately, today more than 50 psts are extinguished. For the theoretical knowledge test, but we think it is completely wrong to punish those who extinguish, with longer quarantine time. Traffic safety is not increased for that reason. Instead, we think we should look at the reason why the iron percentage has increased and now is so high. Driving school teachers believe that the introduction of a basic driving course, which takes place when the youth is 16 years old, is good, but they have no doubt that there is too much time going on from the basic course to the youth taking the theoretical knowledge test. We therefore do not support the clarification of the law in the fifth paragraph of Section 24 of the Proposition. So to the proposal on the basis for the processing of personal data. It was in Prop. 115 L for 2013–2014 expressed a police need for access to the digital registers of the State Road Agency. This was not adequately addressed in the decision and there is a need for a clearer basis for data from the motor vehicle register to be provided to foreign authorities where this results from international legal acts or from agreements by which Norway is bound. The majority examined new data protection legislation on 15 June last year. The proposal has therefore been amended after consultation, so that these changes comply with the new Data Protection Act. The Committee has noted that the Data Protection Authority states that they are concerned about developments in which more and more registers are made available for purposes other than those for which they are established. The majority of the Committee considers that the safety required by the Data Protection Authority is ensured by the explicit disclosure of the records from which the police could obtain information. We also believe that logging and access control to personal data should be carried out by the police. Today, there is a growing need for multidisciplinary cooperation and the sharing of important information. We simply need to ensure that privacy is protected and that the concerns of the Data Protection Authority are addressed with the right level of security, logging and access control. The latest proposal for amendments provides the basis for the provision of information related to confidentiality under new public register law. Thus, the Committee's position is promoted, and I would like to make it clear that the minority will not vote in favour of the amendment proposed in the fifth paragraph of Section 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1456	In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes several amendments to the Law of 18 June 1965 No. 4, Road Traffic Act. The proposal concerns changes to Section 24 on the quarantine in the case of a pilot trial, new Section 43(b) on the processing of personal data, including police access to these, and new Section 43(c) on access by the State Road Administration to information from the Public Register and correction of linguistic errors. In recent times, extensive cheating has been detected in connection with the pilot test. A quick search for media shows e.g. that 42 people were taken for cheats at Larvik traffic station last year. Another article discovered that by paying NOK 15 000 one could cheat on a driver's card. And it's going to happen all over the country. This is a bit of a background for the changes proposed in the Road Traffic Act. It's positive and will have a preventative effect. It is important to focus on good road safety, and it is important to ensure that those who are not qualified for it do not get on the roads. As it is today, quarantine time is equal to that which strikes the driver's test, and to that which cheats. There is no justice, and there is a need for a stronger response for those who are being cheated. In Section 24 of the Road Traffic Act, one of the reasons for this is the fact that it is proposed to provide a guarantee of access to up to one year's quarantine by cheating on a driver's trial, and to provide a basis for more detailed rules on this. The quarantine shall apply to all driving licence categories if the candidate has a cheating class. The corresponding rules are also proposed for the examination of certificates of formal qualifications and certificates of professional drivers. In the case of deletion of the test, the Road Traffic Act does not currently have a maximum quarantine period. This proposition opens up that a regulation can specify this in more detail, but it states that there are no plans to introduce a longer quarantine period for deletion than today. The maximum limit has been set to two months to keep some practice room for any changes to the regulations in the future. This proposition shows that the government takes road safety seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1469	It is very good that there are now changes to the Road Traffic Act that distinguish between the driving test and the attempt to cheat. The police have told the NRK that it appears that a fairly organised network on a national basis facilitates fraud in return for payment. We can't have it like that. The center party believes that there has to be a distinction between cheating and ironing, and is very satisfied with what is happening in that particular area. But we do not want to extend the sanctions for fighting, so we are fully following what the representative from the Workers' Party said before me – so I am not taking it up again. But I would like to make it clear that the quarantine for strike is already considered to be allowed in today's road traffic law. The Party noted that the Data Protection Authority refers to their general concern for an evolution in which more and more registers are made available for purposes other than those for which they were established. We believe that the threshold for access to the image and signature registers should be the same in this case as under Section 8(a) of the passport law. Back to road safety and cheating. Bring Trucking – the Slovak subsidiary of Posten Norway has 300 tow trucks and almost 400 east European drivers operating international transport. Many of them are driving in Norway. Drivers control combinations of vehicles that can load more than 40 tonnes. It requires competence in road safety. Not all drivers of non-resident vehicle combinations have enough of this, shows a study by the Transport Economics Institute. In general, heavy goods vehicles are at a much higher risk of meeting accidents than Norwegian heavy goods vehicles are. Risk factors are, in particular, a lack of experience on Norwegian roads, not least in winter driving. The risk of accidents is highest for foreign heavy goods vehicles in the West, in Trøndelag and in North Norway. The roads are more demanding in the west and in the north. The reason for this is that during the road safety course in the Bring Trucking system, drivers were given the right answers before the tests were delivered, so it was very easy for drivers to check – so cheat during the tests before they are sent out into the world and up to Norway. We know that switching between Norwegian and foreign towing vehicles is on a regular basis in Norway, and we know that a whole of 40 pst. of second-hand cars exported for sale in countries other than the original sales country have manipulated trip counters. There is a lot of fraud in the heavy transport industry regarding cabotage driving, which is a problem for road safety and for serious Norwegian operators. The market for advanced cheating is absolutely present, so it is very good that the jokes in the driving test now have consequences in this case. But when will all the dangerous heavy goods vehicles in other areas be stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1484	This is a very, very, very serious and important matter. As my colleague from the Right said in his post: this is very much about road safety. Unfortunately, this may have been a little under-priority or a little bit of focus, so I am very pleased that we have a government that has taken hold of it and will tighten up and increase the quarantine time for jux. I am also very pleased that a unanimous growth sees the importance of this. Obviously, going from a couple of weeks to a year is a big difference. Actually, maybe one could go even further, but we'll see what the result is after these changes. I hope and believe it will have a good and preventative effect. It is important that we in Norway are not naive. We are facing this – at least in the cases that the Vegvesen has revealed and that the media has focused on – organized and professionally cheated. It's not random, it's not random. These are people who run business and make money on it. To release people who simply do not have the skills to drive a car, into traffic, is – as most of us understand – fatal. So I'm very happy that a unanimous growth is now gathering on the proposal for a decision in this case, and we're hoping that it will have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1491	There is a great deal of agreement on the proposals made by the government. This means that I will not spend an undue amount of time on this article. I still think it is good to inform the representative of the Workers' Party about how we interpret the legislative proposal we have initially initiated, especially regarding the possibility of putting a clause in the regulation on a maximum of two months' quarantine by strike. Today, the law says nothing about such a maximum restriction. The government's proposal is that by law, the Storting should prevent greater flexibility than two months. When the Labour Party says that they will vote against that proposal, it means in practice that there will be no law on how long the quarantine period can be, and that each government is free to determine a longer quarantine than two months, while we now say that we will limit the quarantine to that. So what the Labour Party says they're in favour of, is, as I hear it, the exact opposite of what they vote for. There is no one who has warned that one should sharpen the quarantiners in today's regulation, but one has said that when a person determines something by law, one should have the right to do so. But we're limiting access in the legal text to prescribe longer quarantine time than two months. I thought it necessary to clarify that, because of the arguments put forward by the Labour Party, they would vote in favour of the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1500	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1505	Then we're going to go straight to this with quarantine time on strike. If it was that one didn't intend to change today's system of two and four weeks, why does it say two months in the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1510	Because there's two different things, which it looks like the Labour Party hasn't picked up. The one is a prescription. The second is the law. What Stortinget deals with today is the law. Today, there is no roof, no limits, on what kind of access you have in the regulation to determine how far into this quarantine facility is going to be. When we've gone to Stortinget with this, we've said that it's natural that there's a roof on it in the law that means that one cannot expand that access over time, regardless of which government is in, so that there's a deadline that goes beyond that. And then there's at the same time some flexibility to, if one needs it later, in regulation to be able to determine it. If the Workers' Party takes effect today, any government may at any time determine a longer quarantine period than two months. If the majority get multiples today, they won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1517	That was a very thin explanation. In the government platform, government parties have agreed that they want to facilitate the privatisation of the service – this concerns the proposal on the State Road Service and the closure of some traffic stations. This quarantine proposal has absolutely nothing to do with an attempt to privatize the driving test?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1525	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1530	In my post I pointed this out that we now see that over 50 pst. by the students who pass the test, cancel. There's a particular problem in the theory test. What measures does the government want to take to reduce the elimination rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1535	Driver training is currently largely handled in the commercial market, and it is the students who, in consultation with their instructor, can decide what time they are ready for the practical test and, to the extent that they can also be advised about the time they should be ready for the theoretical test. To a large extent, I feel that the percentage of strokes here means that there is a low threshold to try to take the theoretical test early – before a real one is ready. This means that if you're going to have the intention of just covering up and just clarifying the requirements, the question is whether you've gained sufficient knowledge on the road. That's why I mean that, for example. a certain quarantine period — from an actual test and stroke, to a re-announcement — can make the students more capable of having adequate competence when they first register, thus ensuring that they have a higher level of competence. It's good for traffic safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1546	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1551	I had not intended to take the floor in this matter, for it was quite straightforward in terms of both consistency and the elements in the matter. But I think the line change was a little interesting considering who should be held responsible for actually having such a high strike percentage. I think the driving schools really have to take on a greater responsibility for that particular problem. When it's over 50 pst. Which cancels the theoretical knowledge test, I don't think it's because when you were a 16-year-old, maybe, in the case of a driving licence, you had a basic exam, but you haven't actually got into the theory required to be a good driver. It should be the driving schools' responsibility to follow up the students in a better way, and not least to have a set-up around it. So I hope it has to be a goal to bring down the deletion percentage of 51 – it has to clear down. That's the responsibility I think should be at the driving schools. So also in practical terms. I see that there is a very big difference around the country, and then you might want to look at ‘best practice’ as compared to someone who can handle this. I am absolutely sure that there are driving schools that are able to have a low iron percentage among their students. They might have to learn from those who have a high iron percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1574	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1583	I would first like to thank the Cooperation Committee, even though we may have been more concerned with each of us in this matter, but we can still say that we have a common understanding of the starting point. Express buses and air buses are an important part of the collective offer. The buses run over longer distances and bind regions and cities together, either as the only cross-country offer in the district or as an important complement to the train. This flexible and cost-effective bus offer is in practice financed through ticket revenues from travellers. Developments in the commercial bus market have been negative in recent years. In 2007, the number of express bus travelers was about ten million compared to six million in 2016. The reason for this is strong competition which has resulted in fewer routes and more expensive tickets. Another aspect is that the development of better train provision is often in direct competition with express buses. The proposers come on the basis of the draft representative, with some allegations made by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee. This is probably a central party attempt to blackmail the government's tax policy, so I think it is necessary to repeat some of this here. Firstly, the user charge for diesel includes all diesel used for road transport. The aim of the user charge is to price the external costs of driving on the road. These are costs related to accidents, queues, noise, road wear, etc. In 2019, the user charge for diesel is DKK 3.81 per litre. In 2013, the user charge for diesel for comparison was NOK 3.75 per litre. The majority will show that road taxes need to be seen in the context of other climate policies — in brackets, it becomes more difficult and difficult to see how the Centre Party intends to meet any of the climate objectives to which Norway has or wishes to join. Secondly, the VAT and excise duties are general instruments which are not suitable for specific treatment by individual industries. Specific rules for express buses will therefore break with the basic principle of fiscal policy. It would be unfortunate if express bus routes covering parts of the country where there are no other collective services were to be closed. The future of express buses is therefore an important theme. This is also something that the department is concerned about. In the autumn of 2018, the Ministry issued a proposal to amend the Professional Transport Act at the hearing. The proposal includes, inter alia: proposals that will give express bus routes the right to compete with public transport services on routes longer than 50 km. It is worth noting that this is something that has been well received in the hearing by the industry itself. The hearing period was 2 January, and it is now being processed by the Ministry. The Council of State could probably say more about the progress in the matter. The minority in the Committee is asking the government to implement a compensation scheme for social discounts and to review the overall charging system in order to improve the framework conditions for the commercial bus market. I also note that the commercial bus routes offer discounts, including: honey discount, which I'm good at. But it still has to be that commercial routes have to have the freedom to price their services themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1604	The express buses are a market-based bus offer without government subsidies, which are characterised by the fact that they run over longer distances and most often cross the county boundaries. In addition, the air buses are provided, which constitutes the second part of the commercial bus service offer. The express buses have had a strong decline in the number of passengers. In particular, since 2012, the decline has been strong. The travel habits survey confirms the trend and demonstrates a clear decrease in the market share of buses travelling more than 100 km. All social discounts for children, students and the elderly — honor — must be covered by the companies themselves, while the State pays the NSB discounts. This costs the commercial buses approx. One hundred and seventy-five million. kr per year. Costs for the ferry, use of public owned bus terminals, including airports, cost the bus companies approx. 55 million. kr per year. In addition, the user fee and the extra costs amount to approx. 250-300 million. kr in the year as a whole. The industry itself expects a transition to electric buses over the next 10 years, and electric city buses are already available to European manufacturers. Therefore, in the case of long-term planning, the authorities should consider the buses as a zero-emission vehicle. It's also important in the climate we're in these days. In fact, many in the districts have experienced a lower level of collective provision in recent years. Taking the train is only an alternative in parts of the country. In addition, there are few departures on the long distances on the train. So far, the government has refused to give the express buses better conditions that could have led to a better collective offer across the country. At the same time, the government has increased the fuel tax and made sure that there are more toll trips than ever along Norwegian roads. There are a lot of people in this country who can't ride to work or send the kids with the T-Bahn when they're going to football training. It is directly unfair that a normal family, which in turn can depend on two cars in order to make everyday life go up, should be penalised financially that there is no other alternative when they are going out on longer trips. It's not a single collective option. This must be seen in the context of the massive investment in public transport in and around the large and medium-sized cities of the country. That's good, but as a nation, we have the responsibility to provide even those who live in the districts, a collective offer when they're going to travel over longer distances. This has been largely covered by the express buses, and in many areas of the country it is now completely gone. The express buses are also important for Norwegian tourism. About 80 pst. of the six million passengers, holiday and leisure travellers. Good express bus routes bring tourists to popular destinations both in the mountains, along the coast and into the fjords, where there is no alternative but to private car rental – i.e. for them a rental car. Many come to Norway to go mountainside and have an active experience and therefore appreciate the use of express buses because of their flexibility and availability. In this proposal, the central party asks the government to establish a compensation scheme for social discounts and to review the overall charging system in order to improve the framework conditions for the commercial bus market in Norway. The centre party considers that there is no reason to await the proposals of the Ministry of Transport of the Ministry of Transport to amend the Professional Transport Act sent at the hearing in 2018. This proposal deals with something quite different, but is of course also important. The same applies to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left's comments that user charges, VAT and excise duties are general instruments which are not suitable for individual industries to provide special treatment and justify that they would violate fundamental principles of fiscal policy. We disagree on this. This can be done. Under the government of Solberg, the VAT on public transport has increased from 8 to 12 p.m., and it also helps to weaken competition in public transport. Such an attitude shows that these parties do not take into account the real situation that exists today and that reduces the provision of collective services in the districts. On this basis, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, shall promote the following proposals: «The government asks the government to propose the introduction of a scheme to compensate bus companies for social discounts on express bus routes [[reduction for children, students, pensioners, dependants, etc.]] Together with the Workers' Party, we promote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a view to improving the framework conditions for commercial bus transport.’ These proposals have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1631	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1636	I'm going to start by being a little personal, because I had the pleasure of being quite so involved when the government of Jagland and Sissel Rønbeck, Minister of Transport, in 1997, modernised the then law on express bus routes in Norway, i.e. 22 years ago. I think the legislation is a little different today, but at the time it was at least that express bus routes that crossed county boundaries – and most express bus routes, it is in the nature of express buses that they have to go over a certain distance – had to be approved by the Ministry of Transport. I wonder if that legislation may now have been delegated to the county councils, but that's not the point of my post. It was an old-fashioned regulation that led to the approval of express bus routes. I remember that the Sørlandsexpress had applied to stop outside Kragerø. I even wonder if it's called the Tang there – the Tang in Sannidal, I mean the stop site hot, and I'm sure it's called today. But because there was a route down to Kragerø, there was no opening for the bus to stop there. Then we asked some critical questions – yes, there is a route there, but there is no train running on the route, because the train traffic is on the line to Kragerø. Because there was a route there, the express bus could not pick up passengers. Of course, it was completely finished, and it was cleaned up. I remember that on the Notodden there was great commitment, and there was a massive wager on express bus routes from Notodden to Oslo. But from Notodden, there is also a railway to Oslo. Not many people are using that track and driving trains from Notodden to Oslo, but it was difficult to start express bus routes. All of this was cleaned up because we saw that the express buses were an important supplement and an important part of the collective offer. Therefore, it was gratifying that one at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s got a very well-developed express bus network in Norway, an important part of our collective network – county bus traffic, ferry and boat routes, train services and other public transport. Then we all see and have received feedback from the transport industry and the bus industry that several express bus routes are now struggling. In fact, many express bus routes are already shut down. One of the reasons for this is probably that the rail service in parts of our country has been built up in the last few years, and there are several trains running. It is good that there are several trains running, and it is clear that if there is a good train offer, it is not necessarily true that there is an express bus going on next door, but there are assessments that the industry and industry have to take care of. But it's clear: we have to take the feedback we get from the industry, seriously, that there are now problems for several of the express bus routes. Because I still believe that even if the railway is to be expanded, and some places – perhaps even in many places – can safely take over traffic from express bus routes, the express buses have an important job to do in the overall collective service, especially in parts of District Norway. When we have asked the industry, we have received feedback about the industry, which could wish for an organised system of social discounts – that children, students, honors and guardians can be compensated by the state – because today, as the representative Igstad said, it is up to the industry itself to decide the ticket structure. I think it is a little special of Igstad to say that the industry itself must have the freedom to choose the ticket structure – of course they do – but if the state compensates for discounts for children and students and honor and guardians, it is the industry itself that has asked for and come up with that proposal. Of course, the bus industry – or the express bus industry, call it what you want – will have such a system as SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party now propose, and as we have also suggested earlier in Stortinget. I think it is a pity that the majority parties in Stortinget show such little interest in the express bus industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1651	In January this year the four parties sat down on the non-social side and negotiated a government statement on the Granavolden. In this platform there is a separate point about express buses, which reads as follows: ‘Liberalise the express bus policy fully for unsubsidized express buses’. This shows that the four government parties, the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, are concerned with the framework conditions of this unsubsidized industry. The Ministry of Transport has recently amended the Professional Transport Act at the hearing to ensure that this is precisely the case. The hearing has now ended, and the Minister for Transport has signaled that he will return to Stortinget with a proposal for changes to the law during the spring. In the consultation note, this includes, inter alia, the following: proposed that commercial bus routes over 50 km should be established freely, without any need for testing. In addition, they may include passengers locally. It will provide a better collective service for passengers and will be positive to make more people travel collectively. This also means that there is no need for testing against local traffic. The Ministry also proposes that airbus routes be established free of charge, irrespective of the length of the routes. We believe that these changes will lead to a strengthening of the framework conditions and the existence of the express buses. These are also changes requested by the bus industry itself. We in the Progress Party therefore look forward to the government presenting this to us as a separate matter in the Stortinget during the spring. It's important that we see things in their context. For the Progress Party, it is important that we facilitate the free movement of the unsubsidised bus industry to adapt its operations and its offers to the needs of the market and the demand of the market. At the same time, we have to take into account that we're talking about express buses, and that they're part of a larger picture. The Progress Party joined the government in 2013, and since we entered the government offices with the Minister for Transport, the appropriations for transport have increased significantly in all areas. There is now more road construction across the country than it has been done before, and there is more railway investment now than it has been done before. This does something to the whole thing. When we see that there has been a decrease in the number of passengers travelling with the commercial express buses, with which the Workers' Party and the Centre justify this proposal, we also have to look at what has happened to the other collective offer. In a report that the NHO presented in 2017, on just the decline that is now being discussed, there are several reasons for this. One of the reasons is actually what Sverre Myrli had in his post, that the train offer has improved, that more and more trains are running. NSB is experiencing an adventurous growth. Last year there was probably an increase of 6.4 p.m., and the NSB carried out over 70 million trips in 2018. It's positive, and there's a broad consensus that is a development that we want. Increased competition with domestic aircraft has also led to greater access to low-cost tickets, which may have led to fewer express buses, especially over longer distances. At the same time, the price of car use has also fallen, and it is positive. Customers and travellers then have freedom of choice. They can choose collectively, or they can choose a car. For us in the Progress Party, it is important that the country's citizens have a good overall transport and collective offer, and that the various collective offers are in line with market demand. We are convinced that the changes we are now going to make with regard to the express buses, and the liberalisation that we are also proposing, will lead to a strengthened basis of existence for the express buses, and hopefully this will lead to more people driving with express buses in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1672	It is, as has been said here, both sad and good that express bus traffic goes down. It is good because one of the reasons, as has been said, is that rail traffic has increased. That's true of the sections where the railway runs parallel. The note was mentioned here, and that is well to the extent of a good example. There are better examples too. Then it's sad because the express bus offer is a good and good supplement to the collective offer otherwise. But there are many places where there is no railway at all, as I mentioned, and there are also quite a few who do not have a car, or they choose to leave the car standing, and then it is clear that express buses are a good offer where there is. Often it is the only offer. As a good SV, I would like to point out that on the routes where the railway is currently running, state resources should be used to increase the competitiveness of the railway and, of course, not of the express buses. That is what we must be able to say, in a spirit of good climate policy. So it has to be priority number. one, we have to bet on the railway where these offers go parallel. In some places it is directly wrong if we let express buses compete with the railway, for example. with very offensive subsidies, or better condition them than the railway has. But it's sometimes that the express buses are usually offering other departures, other geographical areas than where the railway is. It is quite rigid and was finished designed for approx. 100 years ago most places, and then the express buses are good to have. I use express buses for my job here, Brakar's 169-bus from Lier, and that's a good option because there's no station nearby. Then I had to use a car for the station, or I had to ride my suit down to the nearest station. I'll do the rest this summer. When this is said, SV believes that it is reasonable and reasonable that the express buses should be able to provide social discounts, as this can help to stimulate increased use of collective services. It was against this background that the SV made a proposal, which the whole opposition is now behind, to put in place a system in which the state compensates the bus companies for social discounts, as mentioned earlier today. This applies to discounts for children, students, pensioners, guardians and others. Well then, I understand that this is kind of a subsidization of the express buses, but then it's saying that okay, we see that it's more important than taking into account that they can compete with other companies, among other things. those hired in tenders. That's how important it is, and then we say in SV that we also have offers packages for these groups of those options. That's our answer to that. Then the Minister for Transport has pointed out that in the autumn of 2018 the Ministry sent a proposal for amendments to the Professional Transport Act at the hearing. This is a very important point, because it is related to this matter, and then I also have to attach some words to that very matter. In its proposal for amendments, the Ministry of Transport removes the need for testing on bus routes if the length of the route is more than 50 km one way. That was also mentioned by the representative Johnsen. This means that commercial operators can then compete with local bus services. It is quite undeniable and quite clear, this is the case, not least because the buses are also supposed to be able to stop along the way and carry passengers on the road. It also means that it is arranged that these bus routes are milking the market with economically interesting routes, while the tendering routes, as I call it, are going to run the same route. I cannot see it any other way than that the government has a general objective of more privatisation and increased liberalisation of passenger transport in Norway. It's a goal. Now we know that one of the proposals from the EU Mobility Package is, on all routes over 100 km, to make it more free to set up bus routes without national authorities being able to make demands. If the route is less than 100 km, national authorities may say no if it conflicts with routes established with public support. So we're into these systems all the way around, and once again, it seems that the government is the best in the class and prefers to shoot what the EU will bring later. I will come back to that in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1693	The government is busy delivering a transport policy that allows those who need to travel to experience the best possible offer, regardless of a cage in the country. The express buses are an important part of the collective service. It is quite right that the representative Nävra was in, that there has been a proposal on the phone, that we come back to Stortinget after we have gone through and worked through the listening recordings for that matter. But it's kind of nice to right the argument of the self-proclaimed environmental party SV, which simply means that if an express bus goes, and there are people in the bus pockets waiting to take the bus, the bus should not stop and take the passengers with them so that they can reach what they're going to do as quickly as possible. There is no good climate policy to run half-empty buses if you can fill them up with people who are already in the bus pockets. That is what this is all about. It is about having an express bus policy that complements the market. When we make large railway investments, we have to exploit it. The county councils are to a large extent a provider of very many bus routes purchased, just as the state is, but the express bus policy must adapt to the time we are in, and it is a time with a completely changed market. As the representative Tor André Johnsen had in mind, competition from air traffic is quite another. It affects the choice of people. When we build the railway and put in more trains, it affects people's choices. People actually actually choose in many cases to take crowded trains instead of taking a bus. It says a little about the attractiveness that has begun to come into the supply of the Norwegian railway under this government. But it also shows that the express bus policy must be adapted to a new era. I'm not surprised when the representative Myrli says that the industry itself wants them to compensate for some of the revenues they miss if they give a discount. I don't know about a single industry that doesn't want government money to pay for it. So I'm absolutely sure that if we pick all the industries, and all the representatives in this room are going around and asking if they want government money, yes or no, a not so many cases where the answer is no. So I think we can all be aware of that. So that's actually not the big question. The question is whether there should be an incentive structure which means that the express bus routes are actually also a competitive alternative to the private car. If that's the case, it means that if you're going to have a drum of discounts, like other public transport, you're going to compete against the public transport where we've already bought and established a supply. On the railroad we invest hundreds of billions for it. If one is to have the same discount structure financed by the public, one is in direct competition, and if one is not to have it, in order to make a provision for its own discount structure, the commercial companies must assess whether the balance is between the revenues of the passengers and whether it is commercially profitable with an offer. The market economy usually works very well if we sometimes manage to control ourselves from intervening in him. The proposal from the minority is essentially to intervene in something that can work if we take additional steps to bring happiness to the industry itself. One of the requirements is that we don't stop you if they find a commercial basis for establishing routes over 50 km. This allows more people to make commercial judgements, and with the increased collective dimension. But then you don't want EN anymore, it sounds like. And that's the whole point: if the state doesn't have its finger in it, one by definition is one, completely independent of what one achieves, while one in general says when one talks about these things, then we're going to get the collective part up, so that less selects the private car. But then a tore must leave some of the assessments to be made to the private, commercial market on one side, but not least – on the other side – to the passengers. These options are used all the time to choose the one that best suits your needs. Therefore, it makes sense that the majority reject the proposals today. The government will come back with a proposal to change the regulation of the express bus policy to strengthen the basis for commercially profitable routes, to strengthen the basis for increased collective participation. Then it's exciting to see if the same parts are just as eager for the express bus to turn on as they seem to be today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1714	The State purchases a number of passenger services – train services, routes on our short-haul network, passenger services at Hurtigruten. In all of those agreements, I think there's a requirement for so-called social discounts, that it should be cheaper for kids and students, the honeymoon discount and that kind of thing, without me knowing all the details. Interestingly, the Minister for Transport then argues so strongly that there should be some sort of social discount on the express bus routes. Both on trains, on short-distance networks, on FOT routes and on Hurtigruten, the state spends a lot of money on purchasing services. The express bus routes are free of state subsidies at all. What's the logic behind that there's a lot of advice about services where the government spends a lot of money, but doesn't think about express bus routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1721	It's pretty simple. Where the community finances the supply, which we do when the state buys the routes, we have some joint ventures as liabilities. Where there's a commercial basis for driving ourselves, we don't have it. Therefore, there is no requirement for a honeymoon discount on, for example: commercial flights – because they are commercial. There are economic operators who know whether there is an economic basis to operate the supply or not. The state is completely consistent and the government is completely consistent in the way we handle this. It is the Labour Party that is on the verge of intervening in functioning markets. It's not surprising for me, but this is where the Labour Party bombs, because here we've shown that we're consistent over time. If we buy, if the community finances, the community also provides some discount schemes. If you establish a commercial supply on your own, it's a self-determined price and discount structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1728	Now we're in the situation that the commercial routes wear out. There are concerns to us that say that many of the express bus routes are struggling, and that there may be even more routes that are being laid down. In fact, I believe it is that for those who are protected today, there are also partial discounts on the commercial express bus routes. I think there is an agreement between the industry and the Ministry of Defence that protective agents get their tickets compensated. That this principle is so terribly wrong on the part of the state – I think the state itself has broken. But I understand that there is very little willingness on the part of the majority and the Minister of Transport to find solutions to do something to keep our express bus routes. Then I asked the question in a slightly different way. The Minister of Transport says he is working on measures to improve the conditions of the express bus industry. Is it such that he then completely excludes that there may be something that has to do with social discounts as part of such a new legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1737	There is little will to get the express bus industry to succeed. There's a lot of will for that, and I think the answer to that is to liberalize the express bus market. That is why I have sent it on the phone, and we are now reviewing the audio recording on it. This will make it freer to set up, allow passengers to pick up on the way, fill the bus, and increase the commercial basis for viable economic operations over time. It also allows several passengers to walk on the buses on which the available capacity is available. Nor is it so stupid that we sometimes focus on the passengers in this. So I don't exclude anything in the proposal that I come to Stortinget with, but I think it's natural that we act consistent in the different market segments. In principle, I believe that the commercial markets should have the least possible intervention from us, and I believe that we can still assume that we will also mean in later rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1744	I hear what the Minister for Transport says, but one thing is to liberalise the regulation for the establishment of express bus routes. We can discuss that, and I can see from the speakers from the government parties and from the Minister of Transport that there is a matter for the Stortinget about that later on. It's one debate. Another debate is the ticket structure on those routes. No matter what the legislation is to establish express bus routes, there is a debate we have to take. What should the ticket structure be like and should the State provide a hand bill? There is no one, at least no one I have seen, talking about the state buying some services from the express bus routes, subsidizing the routes, but that the state could subsidize exactly the social discounts. Does the Minister for Transport see that there are two different discussions – one discussion of how the express bus routes are established and the system to be behind it, and one debate on whether the State should have a system to compensate for social discounts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1751	It's essentially it overrides the discussion, as I understand it. We're going to have an express bus policy that makes the express buses complement the purchased market in public transport. That's how we get to take advantage of the investment we make in public supply, and we get it complemented by a private commercial market. It is quite right that it is possible to make a difference in this debate and say that now we are discussing it one, or now we are discussing the other. But I've had the ambition to be able to have two thoughts in my head at once. That's what I'm going to have in this case. Then I think that the most important thing we have to do to be happy in the express bus policy is actually let them pick up passengers standing along the road and want to go on a bus. It's actually reducing the barriers of establishment for the commercial routes, and it's letting the companies themselves define their own pricing structure. It is possible that the Labour Party will spend more government money to reduce the ticket price without giving better incentives to take the bus. I think it's the wrong use of money. They can be used to invest in other parts of collective provision instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1760	I noticed that the Council of State had a never-ending environmental policy kick to SV here. So social discounts would question our environmental policy profile. I think it's a strange attitude, and I think the council is turning very much on its head. We do not support proposal No. 2, which provides a more flat view of support for the express buses. SV is on and supports proposal No. 1, i.e. that we go into the social discounts. That's the most important thing for us. Has the council ever, in its hypothetical thought world, when he has been sitting on a stump in the woods, as I sometimes do, thought about what it would be like if the public had a planar and the ability to control the long routes, the medium routes and the short routes given who they were to pick up, and who they were going to run past? It might have been nice to have such a transportation office in the counties and had that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1767	No, I just have to say that I've never thought about that. I have never sat on a stump in the forest and thought: How can the state regulate more of what works in the commercial market? In fact, that thought has never striped me – never! It may show the difference between today's government and SV, who will intervene in the commercial market and say: No, you can't be allowed – unless a bureaucrat in the county house has decided that the bus can stop in exactly the bus pocket you had gone to today, you can't get on the bus even if there's free space. No, I don't think -- when I first think about it -- that it had been a better society. I believe, on the contrary, that there would be less infrastructure for the money and poorer solutions for the passengers. This is probably a reason to vote against SV's line in this, simply because they don't focus on passengers. It's a desire to regulate as much detail as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1774	I can quickly invite the council to such a stubble conversation, over a cup of coffee, with such hypothetical thoughts. It can be very exciting. But it's quite right, as the Council of State says, that there's a difference between the parties -- it should just be missing. Probably the Progress Party and SV are the two extremes. SV has always felt that planning transport and transport policy is not so stupid. If you allow the commercial interests to take too much power, they will harvest the interesting markets first. I think the Council of State is indisputably in agreement with that. The council mentions this by picking up people along the way. We have a case going on now that is a little on the side, but nevertheless quite real, and it concerns the Fly train and the NSB between Drammen and Oslo, which I have a suggestion about, and where the Council of State agrees that it is interesting to see it in the context. Then there are two state companies that are going to sit together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1783	I've been invited on good luck a couple of times, but “stabbery” – it’s the first time. One should not ignore that I can find a way to turn it on with time and moments. But we probably have to have a slightly broader approach than public detail regulation if it's going to be a very eventful turn for the other two of us, at least, if we're going to end up there. In general, I believe that the most important perspective we must have when we are regulator, buyer or facilitator of private business in the collective supply is the perspective of the passenger. The only way we can make more people choose to travel collectively is to sit down and look at: It was in that context that I didn't understand the position of SV in the representative Nävra's first post, that the bus, if it's an express bus, shouldn't stop if there's people in the bus pockets who want to go on, and that there should be public regulation. That's my point: we need to focus on the passengers – not the needs of the public... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1790	This was a nice line change. If you want a commercial stump scenario, you get to go to Lucky Neeroset. They charge you to sit on a stump and think, so it has to be better for you than the representative Nävra. We in the Center Party are concerned that people should be picked up when they're in the bus shed. We're concerned that people will get an offer where there are no other offers. We're not talking about where there are airports, we're not talking about where there are routes – we're talking about places in Norway where there's no other offer at all. I have realized that the government parties do not want to rock the charging system. You can't find any solutions. Nor do you want to look at the same social security schemes as you use in the case of the railways, i.e. the state. Then I'm like, What are the other ways to do anything if it doesn't work in three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1800	The President would like to make it clear that the President needs to be informed of'stumbling invitations'.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1805	I'm recording that the president will also be on tour. Let's see if we can fix this first. I believe, however, that the changes we are about to make to the Stortinget, which is about giving greater freedom to the operators themselves to establish routes, greater freedom to take on passengers who do not currently have it and cannot go on an express bus, because he is not allowed to stop there, will help to strengthen the basis of the commercial bus services made by the express buses. I am absolutely sure that we will not have the same need for this debate in three years' time as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1812	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1819	24 express bus routes have been closed in the last six years, following figures from NOR-WAY Bus Express and Nettbuss. They have not been brought down because new public offerings have replaced them. Examples of routes that have been laid down are the Østerdalexpress, The Day and Night Press, Møreexpressen, Nordfjordexpressen, Sogn and Fjordane Ekspressen, Hallingbussen and Sørlandsexpressen. They're laid down because the frame has changed, and they lose to trains, planes and private cars, according to NHO Transport. If we are to get the green shift across the whole country, the collective supply must be strengthened, not weakened. All research shows that a collective offer must be as seamless as possible. that it is easier for people to get from a to b, and at a price that means that the car will not be the option. Railways and express buses are very central in this way. The companies operating the express buses are in most cases commercial companies, either 100 pst. private or private and public property. These drive without public support and must, like all other commercial companies, run with profitability. Having robust and profitable express routes is absolutely crucial that in the future we have a collective offering that binds the whole country together. Too many places are too far away from the train being an alternative – unfortunately. Norway has major objectives of reducing emissions in the transport sector, namely the electrification of ships and land transport. City packages are going to get people from car to collective. Then things have to hang together, and without a well-developed expressive grid, it doesn't. As mentioned, 24 express routes have been closed, and a reduction in the number of passengers from 10 million in 2007 to 6 million in 2016 should have caused the alarm clock to ring a long time ago. The center part has thus taken the cases of Stortinget with the aim of getting a job started to look at the framework of the express buses. The companies that have a concession for express buses are asking for non-discrimination. The current theme is access to holding places and terminals, one of them being that express buses running between parts of the country are a competitor to local actors, public purchases as alternatives to public supply and compensation for social discounts, including references. for trains. It's urgent, so that one can avoid multiple closures of express routes, and it's surprising that the government rejects the proposal and is not willing to look at it. It shows a lack of willingness to care for such an important piece of collective provision as express buses are. The express buses make an important contribution to reducing our emissions in the transport sector, to getting car transport on rail and bus and to getting air transport on rail and bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1834	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1850	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1859	The Committee has asked for these proposals to be dealt with together, so we do so in this matter. A hearing has been held, and I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation. There has been an exciting process and not least engagement and good debates in many arenas along the way. I think it's going to be like this in the future as regards both road pricing and user payment on our roads, so it's going to be exciting to follow. In the hearing we received a clear message from the actors that they wanted an investigation. I think everyone who was present at the hearing wanted to, and the Data Protection Authority was clear that the challenges of road pricing in terms of privacy can be solved. A lot of work and many assessments are already in progress. From the government we have been told that a new road pricing system for vehicles heavier than 7.5 tonnes is being assessed in relation to satellite pricing. The government is also in the process of reviewing the current car charging system in order to ensure a sustainable charging system by 2025. These assessments may be coordinated by using new technologies that can replace the current tolling system. The left is most attracted by the fact that the toll system with toll points and toll rings can be perceived as – and is – unfair today. By using new technology, we can get a fairer system. The new technology can also contribute to much better and more flexible traffic regulation. Environmental differentiation of the vehicles used should, with new technologies, provide a clear call to drivers to take environmental considerations into account in the purchase and use of cars. In cities in particular, modern road pricing systems should stimulate collective solutions. Not only do we have climate and air pollution challenges in cities, there are also very large area challenges. With regard to the other proposals today, I am surprised that the Workers' Party and the SV will introduce all operating charges into satellite road pricing, both tolls and other operational car charges, such as user charges. What surprises me there is: what about stimulation of economic driving and these things? Is it ignored, or is it actually priced in another way? Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, which is probably addressed during the debate today, are more understandable and quite similar to the majority's proposals, but we in the majority are technology optimists and see many good solutions for getting a fairer payment system. So I hope that the debate will bring this a little bit further by making it both easier to manage these charging systems in the future, and that there will be a much fairer system that has a greater understanding of users.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1876	Under this government, new records are set in toll collection. The advantage of that is that we get more built up, and some places tolls also go to public transport. So there's going to be more road traffic and more public traffic of the tolls. The disadvantage is that there are, of course, limits to how much it is acceptable for people to pay in tolls. In addition, the traditional toll collection is a partly cumbersome system, where, at least sometimes, one also uses too much resources. Tolls are too expensive. Tolls were traditionally established to build roads, to get a road built faster — bridge, tunnel, road or different alternatives. Now we're still going to build more road, it's still going to be a lot of road construction. But we have a new challenge in transport policy. In the past, the transport policy was that businesses and businesses should have goods and goods transported as efficiently as possible, and people should be able to be transported between work and work and elsewhere as efficiently as possible. Now we have a new dimension in transport policy, namely our global greenhouse gas emissions and the challenges associated with how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular from transport. For this reason, the idea of road pricing is that it is possible to see these two things in context — both user payments to finance infrastructure and user payments, use new technologies more flexibly and more accurately to manage traffic as part of the process of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's the starting point, and the Workers' Party is a technology-optimistic party. We see that there is now a lot of technology on the market that makes it possible to use road pricing – not tomorrow, maybe not in a year, but if not too much time, it is possible to introduce so-called road pricing in Norway as well. In fact, many have suggested that Norway can show the way, that Norway can create a road pricing system, even the acceptance and – I would say – blessing of the Data Protection Authority, and that one solves the privacy challenges, that it is technically possible, and that we can create a technology for road pricing that we can even export abroad. The Labour Party has made a proposal and the Christian People's Party has made a proposal. Now the Christian People's Party is not represented in the Transport Committee, so the Workers' Party is so generous that we take up the Christian People's Party's proposals in the committee position, so that it will vote later today. Basically, the Labour Party's and Christian People's Party's proposals are the same in substance, they go the same way. I look forward to voting later this afternoon or evening, or when it had to be, in order to prepare this. There's obviously a large majority in the Grand Prix, the Center Party with some modification, but it's probably just the Progress Party who has said that they're against road pricing. I think it is a pity if it were to be like that – I see the proposal from the majority of the Committees, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, where one deliberately does not use the term 'road pricing'. The representative, Jon Gunnes, was the leading spokesman for road pricing, so we heard in the post, but they cannot use the term ‘road pricing’ in their proposal. I guess that's a reason, and I guess that's what the Progress Party has come through to it. The only party in Stortinget that is opposed to road pricing may have – we'll see what the Christian People's Party is doing – come to an realization that nothing about road pricing will be adopted at all. The Workers' Party's proposal is that a new road pricing system should replace tolls and operational charges. What charges we don't have the answer to, that's what this investigation needs to figure out. I want to make it clear that it's going to be a proven neutral system. So it doesn't have to be taken more than what you're taking today. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1893	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1898	I would like to begin by stressing that we need a sustainable charging system for both the turnover and use of cars, and this needs to be developed continuously. Now the question is road pricing or tolls. Or is there another solution? First of all, the claim of paying more tolls today: it's not true if you relate to the tolls' share of investment in roads. Based on the National Transport Plan 2018–2029 and the National Transport Plan 2014–2023 and taking into account the difference in the time horizon — twelve and ten years — it is seen. Tolls amounted to 109 billion in the period 2014-2023. NOK 457 billion. kr for road use, with a current level of 109 billion. NOK 556 billion. kr for the first 10 years for road purposes. Why have we developed a tolling system in Norway? In short, it is said that it is because local politicians were saddened that their local part of the national road projects was never prioritised. Toll financing made a difference. As long as the toll collection came after construction, it was a transparent system. The money followed the project – they bought a finished product, so to speak. It gave legitimacy. Why has there been a conflict in these days? I think it's due to two relationships. We build more projects than before, while building more coherent and larger projects. Then you get a bigger bill at the moment. The second is that urban environment and urban growth agreements have a high proportion of tolls and have a more unclear cost picture. When we carried out a thorough evaluation of Oslopackak 3, we learned that there were fewer than one third of the drivers who could be said to benefit from the revenue from the bombing, which contributed to the fissure layer – either because they mainly moved within the bombing, or because they benefited from investments made outside the bombing, for example. rv. 22 Lillestrøm – Fetsund and E16 in Bærum. In recent years, questions have also been raised about the social aspect of the method of collection. These two Document 8 proposals call for satellite-based road pricing. However, the two proposals differ in scope. The Christian People's Party's proposal is intended to replace the toll collection with road pricing. The working party calls for the collection of other operational car charges to be carried out in the case of road pricing. The government has announced that it will start working on a car tax system that is sustainable after 2025. The majority assume that this investigation will also address future collection systems. There are several issues related to satellite registration of vehicles at all times. The Data Protection Authority has said that data protection is possible, but there are also other ways of recording the data. What data should be collected? Is it just the toll collection that is to be replaced, or is there a total reversal of the collection of the car charges? How transparent it is, and how can the money be distributed, for example? between national and county roads? Right is busy implementing new technologies. We're satisfied that this is being investigated with an open input, both in terms of technological solution and scope.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1923	In Norway, we have established a road construction system in which a share of the cost of development is directly charged to the drivers, in the form of tolls. ‘No path without a bomb’ has been an expression that has been established and used quite often. There have been more and more tolls, which has resulted in an unnatural and unnecessaryly high toll cost for the drivers. Unlike the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have taken more steps to reduce the toll burden for the most people. Today's government has, among other things, introduced a 20 pst bomb impact. We have implemented a toll reform that has reduced the number of bomb companies from 60 to 5. We're now using 1 billion. kr annually in order to pay debts to the toll companies, to help them cut their debt costs. We're also going to make it possible to introduce tax deductions for tolls. In addition, we have opened up that there can be no tariff or lower tariff on the side roads. All these measures have led to about 30 pst. lower toll costs for most people. However, although we have implemented all these measures — many good measures, which have lower toll costs — we still see that there are major problems for the drivers. Especially on the Jären and – perhaps even worse – in the context of the urban environment packages, we see that there are strong reactions from the drivers and from people most. That's understandable, because the drivers obviously don't want any tolls. We support and understand this in the Progress Party. Based on the increasing resistance to tolls, more and more batches want to find alternatives to tolls. We also understand that in the Progress Party, but the point must not be to invent any more or less creative solutions in order to take the most money from the drivers. That is something to which, at least in the Progress Party, we are strongly sceptical. We don't need any new taxes and taxes. What we need is for the state to take greater responsibility for the state's roads, for the states to take greater responsibility for the state's roads, and for the municipalities to take greater responsibility for the roads of the municipalities – without tolls. The advance party is against tolls, but we are also sceptical about replacing tolls with a new more or less creative fee, such as: road pricing. With tolls, the drivers actually pay only for the new, fine and safe road they're running on, and that's for a limited period of time. With road pricing you not only pay to drive on a new, safe, safe and nice four-field highway, but you open the door for all drivers to pay for all the roads they run on, regardless of standard and of quality. It will also not be a temporary fee, but a permanent fee to run on all possible roads. The progress party is skeptical about instructing all drivers to retrofit GPS in their cars. Road pricing with GPS monitoring will then become an automatic taximeter, which starts to go as soon as you turn on the ignition in the car and start driving. The progress party is not only skeptical about such general surveillance, we also fear that driving a car could be more expensive. The progress party doesn't want to be tolled, so we're obviously open to looking at alternatives. Consequently, we are now promoting – together with our colleagues in the Right, Left and Christian People's Party – a proposal for a decision to look at possible alternative solutions. The progress party is also satisfied with the fact that there is no concrete element in the proposal, neither the requirement to retrofit GPS in all cars, nor the requirement to re-install GPS in all cars, nor on road pricing. I want to remember that there are actually no other countries in the world that have introduced satellite road pricing for passenger cars, they have restricted it to trucks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1942	The centre party believes that an investigation of advanced road pricing needs to consider combining and removing several of today’s car-related charges. We believe that a system of advanced road pricing in sum must ensure lower car-related taxes and less bureaucracy. In large parts of the country the use of private cars is necessary, while in the largest cities there is a need to invest in collective, bicycle and gangways. That is why I am now addressing the proposal of the Centre Party, No. 3, which reads: ‘The government is asking for advanced road pricing in areas where there are good alternatives to private cars.’ The Central Party has received criticism from a representative of the Government Parties under the heading: ‘Sp and their transport policy-makers Siv Mossleth believe it must be cheaper for people to drive in the districts because they often do not have a real collective offer.’ That's right. The centre party doesn't think we can punish people because they live or work in places where there are no good collective offers. Then it concludes that we want to have road pricing. That's not quite true. We want to ‘investigate’ road pricing to see if it is an alternative to reducing costs in total for the drivers. So an investigation will show if this is something to go on with. The criticism of the Center Party is summed up by the statement: ‘A little at the top; people in the districts will have to pay by road pricing for public transport in Oslo.’ This shows a total lack of understanding of the central party's policy. It looks like a government party that falls on polls, panicking is trying to turn our policy upside down. So I have to clarify with clarifying facts: the difference in the Central Party proposal, no. 3, and the other proposals are that the central party asks the government to investigate advanced road pricing only in areas where there are good alternatives to private cars. Just like that, it's completely different from the other suggestions. We don't want to give people in the districts any more tips. We don't want to give the bill for the collective effort in the cities to small children's mora up in the valley where the bus runs are very few, and where trains and trams are completely absent. The party of progress is still saying from this pulpit that they are against tolls, but that party together with its governmentmates is actually the majority in the Stortinget. As there were consultations in this case, the Data Protection Authority was clear that the challenges of road pricing in terms of privacy can be solved and that it must be integrated into the technology from the very beginning in accordance with privacy principles, which are now a legal requirement under the privacy regulation adopted by the Stortinget. Then I notice that the Data Protection Authority points out that today's toll system is not very privacy-friendly, and then I expect the government parties to speed up this challenge quickly. The essence is that it has to be cheaper in a car for people without a collective offer. In fact, many people have no choice but to sit in the car to get to school, to work and to leisure activities. Many have had a worse collective offer in recent years. Taking the train is not an alternative in parts of the country. In addition, several express bus routes in the districts have been severely reduced or closed down. We have just heard a big debate on this. So far, we haven't seen that the right-hand government has given the express buses better conditions, which could lead to a better collective offer across the country. In fact, many very common families have to have two cars to make their everyday lives go up. Any new payment scheme shall not become a means for the State to demand more money. But maybe we can get a fairer collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1977	The representative Siv Mossleth has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e1982	It is obvious that the technology we are discussing here has given us as jobs in transport policy, completely new opportunities – it is also reflected in the view of about everyone here in the Chamber – not only for less expensive collection of charges, but also for the collection of a fee in a direction that is politically desired here in the Chamber. Both charges are levied on the basis of the country’s income and on the basis of environmental and emissions considerations, a topic that takes on drivers most. Not least tolls -- we've heard this so many times -- occupy people, because it's so very, very visible. That's why the media are concerned, and that's why we politicians are concerned about it and vulnerable to it. A lot of debate and a lot of anger and frustration are due to the fact that many people feel that there is a lot of randomness, quadrilateralism and injustice in today's system, precisely because it doesn't differentiate enough, is not detailed enough – and not logical enough, we have to be able to say. It is not so easy to understand and not easy to accept many of the booms that are set up. We have to get better at that, and now we get the opportunity if we want to. People may observe that the burden is not related to the use of the road, the use of city centres or the type of car, for example. There may also be strong indications of dissatisfaction – something we have heard, among other things. by the representatives of the Central Party – with regard to the districts and/or lack of alternatives there. If we want, a lot of this can be arranged and corrected with the right direction of the road pricing. Much indicates that we can get the rigged system as we like. Now we've got the tool, i.e. We'll get it in the near future – everything points to it. And then it becomes up to us politicians to use this in the right way, both in the states, I think, in the regions too, in the municipalities partly, and not least us here on the Stortinget. The majority of the population says it is. This is the case in new and new – or quite often – traffic targets, emissions targets, urban development targets. We can incorporate these objectives into a road pricing system. A good rigged road pricing system can put these goals into life in a fair way – something that SV is very concerned about, and what I think most people here in the hall are concerned about – and in a simpler way. There's a lot of consideration to take into account when it's going to be designed. Therefore, an investigation really has to go deep, and it has to go wide: how are the prices and new zones to be visible in a simple way to the drivers? That's a crucial question. How does the choice of cars turn out? How do you turn the running distance off? How does the amount of alcohol and, where appropriate, high levels of contamination turn out? All of this can be investigated. I have to say that today's debate here in the Chamber is similar to a Chinese People's Congress – quite a consensus – but I think that when the concrete issues come up, it will be a little more like an English Brexit debate. Because then we are in the middle of the criteria, and then the political disagreement emerges. But I'd say in sum that we agree on the possibilities for this technology, and then it really depends on how we use it. For us in SV, it is at least important that we have some principles that are laid down, and that of course those who are in power can take them further. Here's what we're recommending to focus on: Something that is largely agreed on, as I have seen in all public papers, is that the polluter should pay. This means that zero-emission cars and reduced-emission cars are to be less loaded. Cities shall not only experience zero growth of private cars, as decided by the Storting. We need to set higher targets – a decline in growth, a decline in the total traffic of cars in the centre, in order to get a more open, more pleasant and more accessible city. This will be the political debate on the future. The pricing must look at several transport modes in the context; it is absolutely crucial – rail, sea, public transport, bicycles and corridors. Road pricing should focus on business transport when implementing environmental considerations in road pricing. That's where the new battle stands when we talk about the environmental element. Guides differing between city and country in some way — for reasons of traffic base, distances, etc. Personal data protection is another element, and it is mentioned many times. Summaries: So we welcome a new dynamic road pricing, but, as always, the layout of it, we are going to take the debate on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2020	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their thorough work on the matter, including: has held a very interesting hearing. A number of actors were inside to express their opinion, and the response to the proposal was overwhelmingly positive. With Storting’s decision today, much indicates that today’s old-fashioned toll stations will be replaced for the benefit of more modern payment solutions in the future, and that is good. We are now spending more government money on the road than ever before. The Christian People's Party has been involved in negotiating the most ambitious transport plan in Norway. Overall, we're going to spend over 1,000 billion. kr for transportation during the planned period and over half on the road. In addition, NTP has a base of 131 billion. kr in tolls. Yes, there's a lot of money, but we've done that for those projects where there's a wish for it locally, and we do it because it contributes to even more road in addition to what the state already grants. User payments are agreed that we should have, but we should renew. We should take it very seriously, for example. Advanced road pricing can be a more forward-looking scheme. Evolution goes in that direction. I have said it from this pulpit, and I say it again: in a few years' time today's toll stations will appear old-fashioned and out of date. We might as well get used to the idea right away. There are other and fairer ways to organise the user payment. In order to maintain user payments, it is important that the scheme is not perceived as unfair or very unfair, inter alia. with regard to geography. In some areas, there are trends in the density of high-priced toll stations, which may be particularly stressful for some. We need to assess the integrity of the user payment system, precisely in order to ensure the most robust and sustainable system in the future. The total toll burden for road users in an area should also be assessed. In particular, it is important that road users experience a good relationship between payment and use. Today's toll station system appears to be old-fashioned and a little flexible. Therefore, a more forward-looking, more dynamic and fair user payment system should be developed. New technologies such as: satellite road pricing can be such a system, but a conversion of the system in the order of magnitude we are talking about here, based on technology to replace the toll stations, must be done properly and therefore requires a proper investigation. That's why the Christian People's Party promoted this proposal in the autumn, just to get an investigation, and that's why I'm happy that there's now a majority for it. I also believe that it makes sense for this investigation to be carried out as part of the review of today's car charging system and will therefore support the Committee's recommendation on the matter. Today's toll system is an expensive and little rational way of financing roads. The socio-economic loss consists of both the collection costs and, on the one hand, the reduction of road users because many road users are rejected. In some cases, road users adapt to ways that actually incur extra costs for society or for the state. In cities, if the rates are differentiated, the tolls may contribute to smaller queues and delays and to reduce pollution, but at the same time it is not rational for the user to make a flat-rate payment irrespective of the distance travelled by the individual vehicle. This has adverse effects on distribution and competition. In addition, in the current investigation, the relationship between the city and the district should be thoroughly addressed. We have to look at how we can take into account the differences in traffic base, distances and population density that exist around the country. With a new system, based on new technological solutions, we can put in place a more flexible system, where, for example: may be charged a kilometre charge which varies with the vehicle’s contribution to noise, time loss, accidents, road wear or air pollution. It is much more forward-looking than today's toll stations, which are both old-fashioned, rigid and expensive in operation. That is why I am pleased with the decision that is being made here today, and I look forward to the investigation work that is now to be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2040	The policy pursued by the Party of Government today has proved to be effective. We get a more environmentally friendly car park, we get more electricity cars, and emissions from the transport sector go down despite the fact that many still use the car as their daily means of arrival. It's important to take care of it in the years we're going into. The tax policy that is now proving to give us reduced greenhouse gas emissions is also a policy that causes us in many cases to pay lower taxes to motorists, so that they can make environmentally friendly choices. So the charging policy works. It acts on the behavior pattern of people when one makes it more beneficial to make more environmentally friendly choices. It's also part of the starting point for this discussion. This means that I am happy with the decision that the majority of parties are making today when one says that we have to look at a future way of charging money as part of the holistic car tax policy. That's the way we can make sure that we have a viable car tax system at the same time that we actually look at the total of the solution, if you want to make changes from today's toll collection. I don't think it surprises anyone that the Progress Party is happy that more people are now beginning to be occupied with the fact that the toll collection costs a lot, is hard to manage and causes socio-economic losses. That's what we've been saying a few years from now. But what we've shown is that when we control the transport sector, we, the four parties in cooperation, are also capable of bringing down the costs – through reforms, by bringing down the number of toll companies, and by bringing down the number of companies that are going to charge. We've brought down the cost of this, and with it, we've made sure that more of the money that's being collected is actually going to build more infrastructure. When I hear Myrlis's comments, he says that the point of this conversion is that one should have a proven neutral conversion. That's what I'm recording. Through the government platform currently in place, the Progress Party has been given new impetus to reduce tolls. It shows that we're taking this fight on more fronts than the Labour Party, which aims to take exactly the same amount of money, but we're going to take it in a different way. It also shows the ideological lines of division in this matter. Where the centre party actually differs from the rest of the opposition today, it understands that the car is not a luxury, but a necessary part to make the everyday life go up many places in this country. This means that there is a lot of concern about whether we should look at alternatives to today's tolls. We are going to do this based on the decision that is being made today and that in many ways also marks – a little in line with what Myrli says – that the influence of the Christian People's Party is actually taking place on the inside of a government, which means that one today is pleased to continue the work we have to do, as the government platform has also warned, linking to a resilient car tax system after 2025. I'm absolutely sure we're going to get good solutions when it comes to this. In the meantime, the government will continue its work to reduce the toll tax, to reduce the efficiency loss we have when we have a collection like the one we have. Then it's exciting to see if the parties that are today horrifyingly concerned about all the disadvantages of the toll collection will vote for the government's follow-up of the necessary steps to reduce the disadvantages with it, as opposed to what the party has chosen to do before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2058	And then we're left here. Neither Jon Gunnes’ nor Hans Fredrik Gravevans – I would say – could be understood in any way earlier in the debate than they were very much to discuss road pricing. Then we have come into the situation that I understand that the four government parties have agreed on other formulations and other proposals. When the Left and Christian People's Party is thus for road pricing: Is the Minister of Transport for or against road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2067	The Minister of Transport is today asked by the Stortinget to implement different alternative collection methods in a comprehensive car tax policy. That means that I'm actually going to do that distribution before I conclude with what is the government's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2072	Now I'm really asking, because I have a little bit of a problem understanding this after hearing Countess and Gunnes, who argues very strongly to investigate road pricing. The Storting had a broad consultation with a lot of hearings, and everyone was to unravel the praises. Everyone did not agree on all the details, but that is what such an investigation should find answers to. So there was a broad consensus about exploring road pricing – the Left and the Christian People’s Party, and I have seen representatives from the Right in warm order defend that we should discuss road pricing. I underline "explored". When up to a number of government parties are in the process of exploring road pricing, and there is now a majority in favour of exploring new technologies that can replace today's tolling system, what is the difference between exploring new technologies that can replace today's tolling system and exploring road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2077	I feel that what the Labour Party says they will have done, is a kind of road pricing as an alternative to today's tolls, while the majority say today, is that one must also look at new technology that can give us an effective collection, and look at it in conjunction with the comprehensive car tax policy that gives us a resilient car tax system for years to come. This means that where the Labour Party's proposal is very intriguing what kind of solutions you should look at, the majority opens up so that we can have a resilient car tax policy after 2025. I feel that this is the greatest difference. So there's no secret that the parties have had a slightly different view of this. That's why we're going to do a distribution work, and then we're going to conclude when we've done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2082	That was a good answer. But then I interpret the Minister of Transport's answer so that he is really prepared to do more than what is in the proposals from both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, because he is going to investigate the entire car tax system, and new technology is going to be part of that investigation. In that case, I would say that the government's parties go much further than just doing road pricing, and that's also why the Workers' Party has said that one should do more than do road pricing as an alternative to tolls. That is why, in its original proposal, the Workers' Party has used the term ‘tolls and other operating car charges’. After all, the Minister of Transport really opens up for further investigation into what new collection technologies can replace. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2089	I am almost surprised that the representative Myrli has only now read what is on the government platform. We have told Stortinget that we need to have a resilient car tax system after 2015, that we need to look at several things to get to it. So today, the Storting says that when we make such assessments, we also have to consider whether toll policy should be affected, whether we should include such assessments in it. It's no worse than reading the government platform, and they'll give you an answer to this -- there's nothing new about it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2094	With the large amount of toll financing on state highways, it appears unreasonable and costly for road projects that county municipalities should act as guarantors of their roads. In Decision 738 of 15 May 2018, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to assess whether it is appropriate for county municipalities to continue to provide guarantees for national toll loans and return to Stortinget. How has the Council of State followed up this decision? And is it such that you think that there should be a distinction between states, so that states that have been built in poor state roads should have both worse conditions and worse roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2099	This is a question that is far from the cause Stortinget is dealing with today. But if the president thinks it's natural for me to answer that, of course I'll try to do it. I normally like to stick to the agenda when there is a debate in Stortinget. It is such that we are making arrangements in line with the call decision that Stortinget has made, and will come back to Stortinget with concrete follow-up of it. The background to the fact that the county councils have guaranteed the toll cases that have happened is that the state does not take the initiative, the government does not take the initiative in toll cases. It is a local policy initiative in which a search for a guarantee for the local policy initiative is sought by the county, which in turn is the basis for going to the ministry and hearing whether the department can make a toll proposition towards the Stortinget. So it's based on the fact that a local has had a wish where there was also a basis for county guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2104	It was the minister himself who referred to road pricing earlier in this case. I did not hear the Minister reply to the question of whether it might be possible to distinguish between states, so that states that have been built in poor state roads should have both worse conditions and worse roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2112	If you don't want to hear what I'm replying to, you might not understand the answer. But I told you that I would like to come back to Stortinget with the follow-up to the call decision. This means that the Council of State will clarify the question when he delivers the answer to the Storting, in line with the call decision that Stortinget has delivered. This means that the final conclusions of any eventualities that the representative might ask about, which are outside the agenda for today, will be a few answers to when the government returns to the Storting, based on the decisions of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2117	The state council stated in its statement that tolls actually work, that we can change people's behaviour with tolls – with the charging system, it was probably said. Of course, I fully agree with that. We can change behaviour, and we see this perhaps most clearly in the urban growth agreements – a fantastic system, as far as SV can understand; we celebrate the system, and we want more medium-sized cities to enter into that system. But the question to the Council of State is, does he realize that the new system that is coming, if any, can change his attitude that the total burden on the driver should also fall in cities, when he himself admits that it actually works with taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2124	The goal of urban growth agreements is for the state to have zero growth, and that growth is to be achieved by collective, bicycle and multiplication. This basically means that as long as we reach the zero growth target, I'm relatively happy that we can get to it while reducing the total greenhouse gas emissions. The urban growth agreements, which are now giving the state 50 pst. to the large urban areas, naturally feed them. It wasn't like that when SV ran, then one wasn't willing to join and solve the big collective challenges around the big cities. We are investing massively in collective provision so that people have a real choice option for the passenger car in high-pressure areas. I do not intend to lock myself to a single solution for eternity. I'm busy optimising, so we don't charge more toll than we need and have to do now – bring down the toll section, which is much lower now than under the previous government. We need to continue our work to reform the transport sector, because it has produced good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2131	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2138	The working party has been and is still to build roads. Therefore, the Workers' Party is also for user funding of large-scale road projects, environmental measures and regulatory measures. But we believe that technology has now come so far that the construction of large, large-scale bombing facilities is approaching the end. We now see that the cost of collecting tolls is so great that we need to look at more effective ways of charging for this user funding. There have never been as many booms as under the sitting government and never been charged as much tolls as under this government. The level is now so high, especially in the urban growth agreements, that you see that this turns out crooked, and that someone gets hit harder than others. An investigation of road pricing that includes all use-related costs is a solution. Then you can also look at whether it is possible to include discounts for special groups in such a scheme. That the Progress Party really wants to block an investigation to which all instances have been positive in the hearing is incredible. Once even the Data Protection Authority has given positive signals to such an investigation, a party that says they are against tolls should support this proposal. Instead, they want to block for the rest of the government, which we have perceived is positive for an investigation. The Council of State indicates in its response to an investigation into satellite road pricing for heavier vehicles, which he believes should be completed before taking a position to investigate the same for smaller vehicles. Then this representative will ask if he is going to spend the same amount of time as they used to start the ongoing investigation, because it looks scary. It took two years for the decision to be taken in this Chamber in 2016 until this investigation was put to tender. The representative Tor André Johnsen of the Progress Party indicated that a tax deduction would be introduced for toll expenditure — a measure to ensure the balancing of unfair distribution. So they are putting in place a bureaucratic and heavy-duty system in addition to the arrangements they have put in place to allocate to the bomb projects. But you're on the other hand, not knowing what that means.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2151	The country collects huge sums of tolls and other purchase fees and operating charges every year. The centre party believes that it is important that this is required in a fair manner and that the basis for the collection is easy to understand. In the national transport plan 2018–2029, a total of 133 billion has been added. kr in external financing of projects and actions on the national road network during the planning period. This is huge sums and essentially tolls. In reply to written questions, the Council of State states that, corrected for the expected toll contribution in 2018, it represents slightly less, but in the order of 125 billion. kr – in toll contributions! This country is long-term, but there are also major differences, and solutions that work well around the big cities, do not necessarily work well elsewhere in the country. That is what we have been discussing quite thoroughly in other matters here in the Chamber today. In many parts of Norway, alternatives to private cars are not good. The centre party believes that an investigation of advanced road pricing needs to consider combining and eliminating several of today’s car-related charges and that an advanced road pricing scheme in sum must ensure lower car-related charges and less red tape. The centre party believes that the use of a private car is necessary in large parts of the country, while in the largest cities there is a need to invest in collective, bicycle and gangways. In this case, the centre party has made proposals to investigate advanced road pricing in areas where there are good alternatives to private cars. For us, it is important that if you are completely dependent on using a car in your everyday life, you should not be punished for that. The use of private cars in large parts of the country will also be necessary in the future, while in the major cities there will need to be a substantial increase in the use of collective, bicycle and gangways and changes in the patterns of behaviour around the major cities. In and around the largest cities there are now negotiations on urban growth agreements to ensure that passenger transport is taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. This is important commitment to funding more environmentally friendly transport services in metropolitan areas. These agreements involve the introduction of tolls. For the Centre Party, it is important that this does not become a toll as a new permanent tax to finance operations and investment tasks for which the public is responsible. This proposal for advanced road pricing is about something significantly more than other ways of collecting State taxes. This is the possibility of stimulating increased collective use where it is well developed and of avoiding penalising car users who do not have the opportunity to use a collective offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2164	No, people in the districts shouldn't and shouldn't pay any more to drive a car. No one has suggested as far as I am aware. It can be integrated into a modern road pricing system, as technology can be used to weigh different elements of the system. Geography is obviously something that needs to be weighed in the system. In some places it should not cost anything at all, while in the big cities it should cost a lot to drive a car. It's important to put a weight of distance, which is how far you're going. An emphasis should be placed on the time of day. So it should be more expensive in Rushtida and the cheaper in the middle of the day and in the evening, for example. A weighting of emissions from the individual car should also be introduced. Cars that pollute a lot should pay more than cars that pollute little. That's the whole idea of a road pricing system, which is an established concept, and in reality, it's a large majority of the Biggest to investigate it. And to repeat that once again, all the bodies that were at the committee hearing were to unravel praise. All the answers are no one has, but let's start the investigation work. The system is known under the term ‘road pricing’. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right are to discuss road pricing, but in today's debate they are pleased with an investigation of new technology that can replace today's toll system. I ask the question again, what is the difference? Why, then, is it not possible to use the concept of road pricing, which is a well established concept, and which both the transport industry and others who work on it know what it is? There is reason to be concerned, because we know that the Progress Party is opposed to using the concept of road pricing. So, representatives of the people who are trying to figure out how to get rid of this, say that's the same thing we're going to do, while the Progress Party is opposed to clearing up road pricing. Both sides can't be right, so there's something here that's not right. To the representative of Gunnes, who had a very good post, I would say that if he is concerned about how to stimulate economic driving in a new road pricing system, you can for example. maintain the CO 2 tax on fuel, as is currently the case, and as for example: Power Norway has proposed. No one has all the answers to the details, and that's what an investigation should have given us an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2178	Toll collection was established to build more roads because the majority in this hall had not allowed sufficient funds up through the years to build good roads. In recent times, tolls have also contributed to the financing of public transport. There should be no doubt that if you get a system that makes it easy to fuck when necessary, as road pricing will be, it will be more expensive for people living in the districts. It may not be possible for those living in the districts to be involved and have to pay for a public transport service in the cities in which they can never participate. If you remove the bombs, the bill will be smeared all over the country. If you have tolls, at least you pay down the particular road and the distance, and then in principle the boom is to be removed when the road is paid. The experience with tolls suggests that tax-hungry politicians will increase prices when they find it necessary in the light of new objectives. I cannot fail to comment on any of the posts of the representative Siv Mossleth who went on the criticism of the Central Party. No, it may not be that the Progress Party has misunderstood the proposal of the Centre Party. It's enough that the Center Party itself doesn't understand what they're doing. The fasit of what the Center Party has done politically in terms of tolls, we have, and it will probably not be possible to screen a baby's mother up the valley in case of road pricing. The Central Party wants it to be cheaper for people living in the districts. Yeah, then it's actually best to remove the tolls. That's the only way to make it cheaper. Then people can drive for free. It has been the policy of the Progress Party for many years, but the majority in this Chamber do not agree – either the Centre Party. The investigation of new things is important, and so has the government said it will. But to say that we're going to applaud road pricing today with the angles that we've seen the different parties have might not be right. That is why there will probably be a broad debate in the future as well, and it will show what we land on, but at least it must not be more expensive for those who depend more on cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2189	It's a little special to participate in this debate here today. Here, the Progress Party has a unique opportunity to meet its electoral promise to remove the country's toll stations, but they choose – surprisingly – to defend the toll system with beaks and claws. But it might not be so surprising. Everyone who follows what's going on in this room has come to realize that the Progress Party is really for tolls. They vote in favour of one toll package after another, one increase in toll rates after another, and the Ministers for Transport of the Progress Party are constantly setting aside new records in the number of toll stations and the number of billions required under their leadership. Then the Progress Party will normally try to explain that they do not have a majority alone and cannot decide this on their own. Then I would like to remind you that there are no parties on the Stortinget that have had a majority since the Workers' Party lost the majority in the election in 1961. The party of progress chooses what kind of governments they want to go into, and what kind of issues are crucial to become part of the government. It is only to note that fulfilling the election promise to remove all the country's toll stations has not been an important enough matter for the Progress Party, and that they have rather prioritised getting into the government offices and getting to drive around in black cars. But this matter is about something much more important than the broken election vows of the Advance Party. We have come to the point today that the toll burden for ordinary people has become so great that it is time to ask questions as to whether we have reached a limit. At the same time, we see that today's toll system turns out to be a bit crooked and quite random. A family of children who happen to have a toll station located just outside their house, suddenly get a big spending jump just to have to do normal things like driving the kids to and from kindergarten, or even training activities in the afternoon or evening. The working party therefore believes it is time to investigate road pricing as an alternative to today's tolls and car charges. It will provide a much more accurate system, which will not be equally biased or random. In addition, it will be much more related to the use of the car and not to the ownership of the car itself. At the same time, you can have arrangements that take into account those of us who live around the districts and have no alternatives other than the car. And last but not least, we're getting rid of a system that has high operating and collection costs, and we're making sure that a greater share of the money is spent on what they're going to, the construction of roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2202	This debate was very elucidating. Earlier last fall and in winter there was a debate in the media about what road pricing could mean. Today's debate confirms my suspicions very strongly. The centre party is standing on the pulpit saying that you can introduce road pricing, but just not in the districts where there is no public transport. That means the Center Party is going to send a crazy bill to the big cities. The working party says no, it's to distribute, because now the pressure is so big. It's because it's become so big in the cities. Then it could seem as if you were sending the bill out to the districts, while what you're standing here confirming from the Workers' Party's Severe Myrli, confirms my suspicion, which I was accused of being almost unreasonable for in the media earlier this winter. It was because I suspected that some parties would in the long run abuse the possibility of simply setting up a road pricing in that way, looking at the time of day a driver, emission one has. That means they have the worst advice, the children's families with the oldest cars, who have to pay the most with the Labour Party model. The same thing is with SV. Then you can talk about Difference Norway. When the Progress Party says that we are against it, it is precisely because we are opposed to increasing the fees, to further increasing the burden in urban areas and throughout Norway. That's why the Progress Party has had an impact on the government to reduce the toll burden for most people, while here in the Chamber, there are almost other parties fighting about how to further limit car use. It's scandalous. The centre party now appears to be the large party which is against taxes and duties and is to reduce them. I'm sure if you ask people here in this city, with all these actions, if they want even greater toll load and also to take over the bill for all the other highways in Norway, the answer is a noisy no. For the Advancement Party, it is important to reduce the burden on people most, including in cities, and this government has contributed to this. When the Centerpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV joined the government, Oslo got a municipality between 0 and 20 pst. State participation — aid from the State — in urban development. Now you get 50 pst. Then it becomes incomprehensible to me, the logic you have. The progress party is not against new technology, but we are to take care of those who cannot afford to pay the full price, those who have to use the car – not because it is fun, but because they have to. Putting greater restrictions on people's mobility is out of the question for the Progress Party. When we say we're going to look at new technology and look at a system that is sustainable after 2025, it's about being responsible and not standing here adopting technologies, adopting something that's not tested anywhere in the world. Somewhere the limit goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2222	The Tompong comrades in the Promskritt party probably remember the fine time when Queen Jensen led the fight against tolls. They went to the elections to remove the tolls. Now Finance Minister Jensen has undergone a change of government and has re-emerged as the great tax queen. The gap between what the Progress Party said they would do, and what they do with the power they have is huge. I understand that this is difficult for many representatives. For example, the representative Johnsen has spoken from this pulpit as the largest opposition politician to the Ministers for Transport of the Progress Party in Tollsaka. But the Progress Party says one thing and does something else when they vote for more tolls in this hall. They're still biting in the tail. It has become increasingly clear to me during this debate that now they and the government are going to issue new technologies to replace tolls, but they refuse to call it road pricing. In addition, it's actually the way this technology works, if we get an investigation that shows how to distinguish different zones. It's not very difficult, I think, because when I've been looking at planning e.g. public transport, it has been very clearly defined and outlined which areas should have frequent collective provision, and areas beyond the districts where it is not possible to obtain good public transport services. So exactly that sketching can also be done very well in an investigation about advanced road pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2229	The debate here clearly shows that the Progress Party has been really pushed up in a corner. It is totally incomprehensible to me what is being said here. There's no doubt that there's a toll riot out there. In front of us we have a number of new road projects waiting, and they are so expensive that when the Transport Committee was in Agder, the conclusion was that flights from Stavanger to Oslo are going to be cheaper than cars. And then it doesn't help those who are going to drive that way, that the toll percentage has gone down. It's totally incomprehensible. Then I have to say that it is reassuring to hear the case rapporteur, who should otherwise have a reputation for a good job. It's like a solution in any case depends on a state contribution. The amount to be paid in tolls depends on how much one is willing to go over the tax slip. It can quickly be agreed by the entire Storting. Storting representative Hoksrud said in 2017 that ‘the toll load has reached saturation long ago’. He said in 2013 that the tolls would disappear, and he says in 2017 that he ‘means exactly the same now as at the time. The state should take the entire bill for new road projects from the tax and the charges we pay from before. But unfortunately, we have not received the Storting with us on this." I cannot see that there has been a proposal from the Progress Party in the government to reduce or remove the toll. The various proposals and the proposal for decisions by the majority parties mean that a new technology should be explored. It's just that the answers from the same government parties crack, so we're now really excited about the continuation here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2247	This debate really starts with a fairly similar starting point, namely that you want to find out new ways to collect money in terms of car charges. You want to look at different options, and that's a job that needs to be taken. These are advantages and disadvantages of both projects. Tolls have an advantage, and that is that they are quite visible. It actually has a traffic-repellent effect. When you run through the bombing in Oslo, you know how much you pay. It's probably not going to be the same if you had a road pricing system. The money would probably get into the state treasury, and then it would be distributed to the different projects, if you want to have the whole mill -- I kept saying -- into this system. There's no fasit response where one is better than the other. Tolls have – and I guess I did – a social aspect that you absolutely have to look at, that you actually pay as much to drive far as to drive cards. In Oslo, you solve this in a different way. Now you set up 53 new toll stations in Oslo, just to differentiate distance and how much it's going to cost. No one has to pay for 53 passages in Oslo, you have to pay for one. And then you have an hour rule that makes this a fair system. Those who drive long and often, are going to pay more than those who drive short and rarely. It's also a way of doing things. No matter how the system becomes, the roads have to be paid. I have never heard that the Workers' Party will build less roads than the citizens, at least not when they are in opposition. Another thing is what they do when they're in position, but in the opposition, these roads are to be built, and the users have to pay. That's the main principle of this. In the case of tolls, it has come in as an addition. So it's not like you now have record toll rates relative to what you actually build out. You can see that when you see the share of tolls in relation to the costs you charge. It's a truth that you just have to take over. I believe that an investigation involving both technology and the scope of a new collection system will be necessary to draw the right conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2260	Yes, seagoingly an investigation of road pricing is necessary. But it is a strange debate, one which, in particular, on the part of the Progress Party, will not take the word road pricing in its mouth. This is about how to pay for different investments. You can do that in different ways. But what is needed is to find a system that is fairer and that ensures what everyone says – including the government parties – is that we have to provide less climate emissions related to transport, and that in densely built strips, the increase is to be taken with collective, bicycle and times. That's what the government says, and that's what the Progress Party says. One of the reasons I took the floor was that the Progress Party went up here and cried crocodile tears for the disadvantaged. There is no government that has had as much money at its disposal as this government. There is no government that has ever demanded so much toll. There is no government that has given so much tax relief to those who have the most. There is no government that has cut so much in the necessary benefits for those who have little. So those crocodile tears can be spared. It is fully possible to investigate road pricing without necessarily affecting people more than it does today — on the contrary, much of this could be done in a more fair way than today. If you are concerned about the disadvantaged, you have tax policy at your disposal, you have housing policy at your disposal, you have social policy at your disposal – you have a lot of money at your disposal. But just when it comes to figuring out road pricing, you use it as some kind of insidious hiding behind. I heard a little about the previous debate as well, when they said that people in the districts have no other option than driving a car. That's right. And it doesn't get any better by letting the express buses get the flow of the routes that are profitable, so that they can't help financing public transport on some routes that aren't profitable, but that can be very decisive for people who have bad advice, maybe so badly advised that they can't afford to have a car even. There's a lot of connection here, but what's not related is the government's double communication about what they're really into. An investigation of road pricing is necessary to give us a fairer system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2273	There was a lot to comment on. I don't know if I should say so much about the crocodile tears of SV, but I think it's interesting that SV would actually have a worse collective offer in the districts. For example, the express buses departing from Trysil could have picked up passengers en route and set off passengers en route, but obviously they are not allowed to do so. There's a lot of focus on tolls here. Especially the Center Party has challenged it a little bit, so I feel the need to respond a little bit to it that we say one thing and do something else. No, we're against tolls, and we fight against tolls. We've been doing that every year, and we're going to keep doing that. Given that we're the only party in government, and maybe the only party on the Biggest, which is really against tolls, we've got some good results, not to have a majority. We've got 20 pst. discount by having a bombing chip. We have removed, as I said earlier today, almost 55 bombers. Only in Hedmark there were three bomb companies. That was one for rv. 325, that was one for E16, and that was one for E6. Now there are only five bomb companies throughout the country. We have removed a lot of boards, removed a lot of meeting compensation, a lot of meeting food and driving compensation, and certainly dividends and travels and study trips – what the governments of the bomb companies have spent time on. We have saved a lot of money, which is now going to pay off the debt faster, so that the drivers pay a lower toll. We've removed the bombs sideways. We've reduced the number of booms on the sideways. When the Senterpartiet was in government, it was not even theoretically possible – with the NTP adopted by the Senterpartiet – to get a lower toll on the sideways. So if there's anyone crying crocodile tears here, I think it's SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party. The working party is attached to the fact that it is not enough that the toll percentage has fallen. No, I agree with the Labour Party, but it is interesting that the Labour Party has voted against, for example. The half billion, which we now have to raise to 1 billion. kr, in order to pay off the debts of the toll companies. They criticise us that it is not enough that the proportion has fallen, but with the Workers' Party the proportion would be significantly higher. Then it would be even worse to be a driver in Norway. Finally, I want to boast of our good colleagues in the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Thanks to us and our government, the drivers have ended up being a dairy cow. Before we got into government, the drivers paid significantly more than what they got back in terms of better, safer and safer roads, while now the situation has changed, thanks to us who are now in government together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2284	This discussion really consists of several elements — initially it consists of enough of two main elements. One is that we succeed in the policy of phasing in a zero-emission vehicle in Norway. The sale of electric cars last year amounted to approx. one third of the total new car sales. This year's forecast is even higher. That means we are phased into a zero-emission vehicle as passenger cars at a greater rate than we might have foreseen. At least we succeed in charging policies so far, and we succeed in the policy of successfully phasing in a zero-emission vehicle in Norway. It actually attracts international attention. I've never had such a lot of visits to foreign media, and it's polite in itself, because it puts Norwegian climate and environmental debate in perspective. The consequence of this is that it is becoming less and less one-off charge to charge. At the same time, if we succeed – and I really hope we do – in selling only zero-emission vehicles in the passenger car market by 2025, it might be above that one million zero-emission vehicles rolling around Norwegian roads. This means that it will also not work to levy user-related taxes in the form of taxes on petrol and diesel. So one side of the discussion is that we need a sustainable charging system. The government has told us to do that, and we're going to start that investigation work on a sustainable charging system after 2025 now. That's part of the discussion. The second part of the discussion is about tolls. I think we can all admit, whether we are initially for or against tolls, that as long as we use that instrument in Norwegian transport policy, it has its sides. It might turn out a little bit unfair, it could be random if you're inside or outside the toll. So it also triggers a discussion about how we can solve it with improved and new technologies in other ways. Some people would call it road pricing. It could be satellite-based solutions. The starting point for the proposal we are now considering by the majority is that we want an open approach to assessing new technologies and how new technologies can help us to perhaps create a fairer tolling system. We're going to lay the groundwork for both the use of new technologies and the way we set up our charging system in the future, which enables us to create sustainability in the charging system as well. It is not just about social sustainability in the charging system, but it is also about economic sustainability. I think that with the approach we have here now, with the proposal that we have taken on board by the majority – I also understand that the Council of State is reading it correctly, namely that he will investigate how we can jointly use new technology – can create a more equitable system for both toll collection and for a more sustainable charging system for the marketing and use of cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2295	I can assure the House that there are no crocodile tears from this edge, but there may be reason to remind SV of one thing when talking about lower climate emissions – and that is why it was so good to put this in place: I don't think the people who can't afford to buy a new climate friendly car seem something more liberal by having to pay more, because that's what's in the system you're now proposing. So it's a little special when the Workers' Party says that today's system is too expensive, it's so unfair, it costs too much with tolls. Yes, I agree, the Progress Party agrees. That's why we work every day to put down the toll percentage. But when it comes to being proven-neutral, as the Workers' Party assures, I have difficulty understanding how it will be cheaper. It can't be cheaper. And when you start quoting what others have said from this pulpit earlier years, I can refer to what Sverre Myrli from the Workers' Party said from this pulpit – I think it was in June 2017. There will certainly not be any lower bombings in the cities with the Workers' Party's arrangements. No, it'll still cost the same price. Then it's going to be proven neutral. This must mean that there will be no cheaper – on the contrary – especially when the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party proclaim that you can control the system by looking at emissions. This means that there will be differentiation of the cars: those who do not release nothing will not pay, while those who release will pay absolutely the most. Provenance neutral means that they get a huge bill from the parties in the opposition. I can't see anything else. The party of progress is still satisfied. I can assure both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre that the toll percentage is falling. It's going to keep doing that. And yes – then maybe the Advance Party is the friend of the motorists, and I would wish that more parties than just the Advance Party were, and the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Together, these batches have ensured that car charges have generally decreased, including for petrol and diesel vehicles with lower emissions, and for hybrid cars. This is precisely why greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced. Then I want to draw attention to SV, because with their arrangements you would set up the fees. And the Senter Party, in the last period, arranged to increase the price of diesel and petrol as quickly as possible to phase out fossil cars. So I think the country should be happy that it has this government, with the four parties that now rule, that make it fairer -- which means lower emissions and safer transportation, which is better for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2308	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2313	Then, too, came this debate: when the Progress Party is empty of arguments, it is a pusher for the families of children. Let it just be clear: there are many families with children who come out badly with today's toll system as well. Lives on one side of the toll station and has the kindergarten on the other side of the toll station, one may have to pay dearly in tolls, while those who are so lucky to have both jobs, kindergarten and houses on the right side of the toll station, do not have to pay. No system is perfect, but that's why we want to apply new technology and work out a new system. Our proposal says 'Provenyn neutral'. That means we're going to take the same thing as today. The distribution is probably going to be different, but our whole idea is that we're going to take the same thing in. Finally, I interpret the silence of the Count as if the Christian People's Party were going to vote against its own proposal for a representative, i.e. proposal No. 2, which has been recorded by the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2322	I came into the room and heard the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and later more from the Progress Party come with defensive speech for tolls. I didn't think my own ears. Think it'll come to that! What's going on? We have sat and heard the party leader in the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, exclaim that if the Progress Party comes into government, it must be free in any Norwegian boom. We have it documented; it's on YouTube, it's on different channels. It's just – for those who want – to go in and hear. Now six years have passed with the Progress Party in government, and has there been a change in tolls? Yes, it is: the Government Party The Progress Party, with the Minister of Transport at the head, is hoping for tolls at a pace Norway has never seen before. There is a record of entering tolls with the Progress Party in the driver’s seat. Not enough of this: the background to this is that the government comes to the Stortinget with a Minister of Transport from the Progress Party and delivers toll proposals on toll proposals – and the representatives of the Progress Party are sitting in the Chamber and voting for every proposal! Every proposal for more tolls in Norway has been voted in favour of by the Progress Party for six full years. Then we see – and I'm almost a little entertained by it – for example. The representative, Tor André Johnsen, from the Party of Advancements, comes up to the pulpit and out of the blue: we are against tolls! Then he repeats: we're really against tolls! But why, in the name of heaven, does the Progress Party in this Chamber vote unanimously for all these tolls time and time again? Not once – they do it over and over again. The pickers of the progress piece are round-tracked, and now the bluff must be well-discovered. What has happened is that the Progress Party has used its priorities in the government for anything but to remove the tolls in Norway. They've used them for tax cuts for Norway's very, very richest. That is what the Progress Party has done – nothing else. The Progress Party has become Norway’s worst toll thief.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2335	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2341	I just have to comment on the last talk a little quickly before I go over to my question. I recommend the representative of the Workers' Party to read the NTP as this government, the four parties, presented. So you can compare it to your own NTP and then maybe read a little bit about what happened here in the hall, before you make such an article. It could be useful. This is how you can learn a little about what has happened to the toll ratio in Norway. My question is to the Workers' Party, because when you stand on this pulpit and talk about the urban areas and where you live, I start to wonder a little: does this mean that urban growth agreements are actually going to be part of a road pricing system, for which all of Norway is going to pay for? With the reasoning I hear from the Workers' Party and SV and more, it means that in the case of municipal decisions to expand public transport, it is like this, as I have said to the media earlier in the autumn and in the winter, that then, if necessary, you have to pay for it up in Finnmark, for trams in Oslo. Is that so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2348	After hearing the contribution of the representative, Mr Lauvås, a question mark can be asked about several things in this debate. One is to be so jubilant that the Progress Party has not had any more impact on a policy one itself is opposed – that is quite remarkable. The criticism from the Labour Party is therefore about the fact that the Progress Party does not get a big enough impact on matters The Labour Party is opposed. It is a relatively new, yet interesting dimension in Norwegian political debate. The Labour Party should have wanted the Progress Party to have more impact on the Workers' Party. It's okay to bring it with you. Unfortunately, the issue in this debate is that to several representatives of the Labour Party who have spoken, it is more unclear what the Labour Party actually means. The representative, Sverre Myrli, says that the conversion which is currently under consideration should be nominally neutral, while the representative, Lauvås, calls it the level of a run of the bilistane. It's not going to work. We can add that the representative, Leirtrø, says that it is more expensive to drive a car between Stavanger and Oslo with today's tolls, so we have to have a different system. If it is neutral, it means that for those who have a new road between Oslo and Stavanger, it will be cheaper, while for those who have not yet a new road, it will be more expensive. Is that how you're supposed to understand it? Is it other than those who have received the new projects to pay in the Labour Party Road pricing system? Or was it just nonsense, it also, if there's any basis for saying it. Was it not so busy that it was more expensive from Oslo to Stavanger anyway? It's not connected in a bunch. One thing is that we're going to do a distribution operation now, that's what the four parties have said. But the argument from the Labour Party is not about anything but a populist desire to coin a resistance to tolls that you don't have, but that you like to express in some debates now and then. It's not reasonable. We can't treat the bilistics like this. We can't even do distribution jobs, this way of doing it. It shows above all that this debate is characterized by an opposition who does not know what he wants, does not know how he gets there, but hopes that the government can help him out of the problem. Of course, we're going to try to do that, and so we're going to do what the Storting asks for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2359	The left relates to agreements. Through the national transport plan, which was adopted for approx. a year and a half ago, it has been assumed that payment by users is part of the financing base for new road projects and for regulating traffic in congested areas and times. We're dealing with that. It's actually a follow-up to what we're talking about when we're saying that we're going to bring in new, modern tools, new technology, to actually get to this in the most flexible way possible, in a cheapest way, and like a social angle around it, so that we actually get a more fair system, a system that's understood as fair. That's what we're now trying to do with this decision that the Left is on as part of a majority. We are talking about a sustainable charging policy. That's what's the basis. And then it's kind of exciting. It sounds a little bit like this has been implemented many places in the world. There are no locations in the world yet, this with the satellite-based. Germany may have come further, and there are many countries that think about it. Sweden assesses this, but most countries do not. Technology is not yet in place. And we should notice that. That's why it was important for us to include in the decision that it should be modern technology, because it can actually be so that 5G can fit better here. I have a bell on me here, which almost controls my life. It keeps telling me if I've slept well, how many steps I've gone, and my pulse. It is clear that modern technology can also tell you how the car has moved – even perhaps looking at the consumption, which Sverre Myrli was concerned about, and that you should not take it away with economic driving. To Sverre Myrli: there are two charges except for the product itself; it is the user fee and the CO 2 tax. Both charges are very operational. And I understood it this way when I read their suggestions that it was these two people pointed to. But now you start to withdraw it – that's good. My appeal may be that we vote in a subsidiary way for the majority decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2369	The representativeTor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2374	I just want to make a comment on the slightly fresh post to my good colleague, Mr Lauvås, about tolls. It is possible that the representative Lauvås has not yet brought it, but the Progress Party is not alone in government. We sit with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party and have a good and committed cooperation, and when you commit to cooperation, you can't run your own primary policy. I think the representative Lauvås understands and knows that very well. If all four parties were to run on their own primary policies, we would not be in government. It's that simple. Otherwise, it may be possible that the Workers' Party is used to sitting in majority governments alone, used to governing alone or used to overseeing its partners. We don't -- here we give a little bit and take a little bit, so everybody gets wins, and we've got massive victories in the field of transportation. We haven't prioritised tax credits to the rich, as Lauvås says, and spent more money on it. We've spent more on transportation, where we've been budget winners year after year, and we're going to keep focusing on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2381	The representative Johnsen says they're in a majority government. It would have been desirable if he did not vote for what he is for, but voted for what he is against, that he at least stood behind the government's proposal and did not let anything else. It is said from the Council of State that it is unclear what the Workers' Party means. First of all, the proposal is that we will investigate – precisely because we do not have knowledge. Then I would like to remind you that with regard to the urban growth agreements, the urban packages, the Workers' Party has made proposals for 70 pst., not 50 pst., and that will give about. 9.6 B.C.E. kr more to the cities. When we make proposals, it's based on listening to people. All organizations want such an investigation, and we think it's worth listening to. What they're saying is that it's unfair, and that's what creates the uprising. When you're in Hedmark, rv. 3 pays 80 pst. of the construction of the road, while elsewhere paying 20 pst. And somewhere doesn't pay anything, it feels unfair, and we want to do something about it. After all, it may be gratifying for the Progress Party to vote in favour of their proposal for reduced toll tariffs when the budget was discussed. When we make proposals for 1 billion. more to the county council, making it less necessary for the county to use tolls as financing. All in all, we agree on an investigation, and when the case rapporteur says that it might be 5G, then I hope there's a better coverage of 5G than it is on 4G. If not, many are going to fool themselves away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2396	I just registered that we were invited by the representative Stordalen to read the NTP before we spoke about tolls. I can say that no, there is no need for me or many others in the Workers' Party to read the NTP before we express ourselves on what is perhaps the greatest post-war political bluff. It was the guarantee of the Progress Party that the Advance Party would be in government and that the tolls in Norway would be removed. I've said it before, and I can say it again: we have these statements on tape, it's well documented. I record that the Council of State – honestly, perhaps – admits that the party of Advancement has not been passed through to the government, and comes with some introductions about something that should be provenneutral, etc. To the council, I just got to say that it was not Provenance Neutral Tolls The Progress Party promised its voters, they promised that the tolls would be removed. They were to go away, they would no longer exist in Norway if the Progress Party came into government. The representative Johnsen keeps trying to defend himself and his party, and I understand that, of course. It's just that the defense team is broken down; there's no credibility left in the way the Progress Party argues, at least not when you compare the guarantee from the Progress Party to remove all the tolls by now saying that they have reduced the number of toll companies. It does not help as long as the Progress Party in the government records tolling from the drivers in Norway. This is the best friend in Norway at the moment. There won't be much credibility out of it. As I said, none of the posts that have now arrived at the end change anything. The Progress Party is still going to sit in this Chamber, and they are still going to vote for the toll projects that the State Council Dale of the Progress Party is going to bring to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2423	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2432	The Municipal and Administrative Committee has considered a very good proposal from the Christian People's Party. I'll prepare for my vision, and then those who have a different vision will prepare for it. At the outset, I need to say that when the Committee unanimously stresses that Norway is to ‘understand the rights and obligations of Norway under international conventions’, it seems strange that it is not a unanimous committee which stresses that ‘lack of legal certainty in the asylum procedure can have very serious and fatal consequences for the individuals concerned’, for that is what this is all about. Legal certainty is important. It is important in all matters, but of course most important in those matters where it can be about life and death. The representative proposal is based on a public investigation by the so-called Graver Committee. These are not proposals that have been taken out of the air. This is well investigated, and the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted, and which SV addresses in the Chamber today, have support in the position of the Graver Committee. For example, the Graver Committee has: pointed out that it is very important that there is transparency of the parties and the right to object, and that there are examples that this is not adequately addressed today. They concluded that there is a need for changes in the Foreign Affairs Act to ensure this. That is why the Christian People's Party proposed this, and SV proposes it today. When the UN was set up, it was hoped that many people would explain themselves orally in these cases before the decision was taken. This issue was also discussed in the Graver Committee, and the sample concluded that there was a need for regulatory changes to ensure more verbality and personal presence, and that the threshold for it should be low. Unfortunately, few people get it today. It is therefore absolutely necessary to make changes to this in order to ensure these important legal principles. More orality will increase the legitimacy of UN's legitimacy both in the case of the decisions and in the case of the public. That is why SV proposes this. In addition to this, SV promotes a proposal supported by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. It's a suggestion you might call 'Lex Farida'. It is that when the State has considered that a matter is so principled that it has even been taken to the Supreme Court, as was the case in that example, and the Supreme Court has said that UNE has dealt with the matter incorrectly, it cannot be that that case is sent back to UNE and is treated by one person there, perhaps even the same person who dealt with the matter before. Where cases are brought before the courts and decisions of the foreign authorities become null and void there, such proceedings may no longer be dealt with by facilitators alone. It may vary a little from case to case whether you should have a name or a great name, but it is natural that you use a great deal in matters that the state considers to be so principled that you take them to the Supreme Court and even get convicted. So it's a question of what the government intends to do with this. I see that the Christian People's Party in this matter, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, shows that it is on the government platform that one will look at this. You might be able to settle that down, but I became very concerned about it when I read the newspaper Today, where the representative Bransdal, from the Christian People's Party, tells me that she will continue to work on the matter, but not by adopting new proposals in the Storting in this period. That means that this is not planned to result in the necessary legislative changes that the Graver Committee points out. I hope it can be clarified during this debate, because if not what the government has said on the government platform, and what is now stated in the remarks in the position on this matter, is that the legal certainty of asylum seekers should be improved, that it should not be done by the necessary legislative changes that the Graver Committee has pointed out. Then I would like to take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2449	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2454	The asylum institute and the asylum process depend on trust, that people are honest about identity, documentation and information. Effective treatment is important both for asylum seekers and for the confidence of the whole asylum institution. Legal certainty is essential and crucial. There may be serious consequences for individuals if legal certainty is not ensured, nor does it contribute to confidence in the management of foreigners and the policy on asylum if it does not. In the case of the Workers' Party, there is no contradiction between ensuring an effective procedure and ensuring legal certainty. There are a number of actors who have pointed out that there is a need for a review of the appeal procedure in the field of aliens. The government itself says that there is a need for a review, the Christian People's Party, which has promoted this proposal we are dealing with, believes that there is a need for change, and the Workers' Party believes that there is a need for a review. The Christian People's Party, who are proposers, will no longer say anything about what kind of changes they expect. However, political signals are expected, and the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, has proposed the following: ‘The Government is asking for a review of the foreign complaint procedure with the expectation that this implies better legal certainty for asylum seekers, including the increased use of the objection and orality in the appeal procedure.’ We believe that this is both a clean and a proper procedure. We're giving signals about what kind of changes we expect, and we're referring to the trust of the aliens, that these changes are being made together. We then ensure effective treatment and legal certainty. As I said, it's about trust. Thus, the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre, believes that cases in which the decisions of the alienation authorities are known to be invalid in the judicial system cannot be dealt with by the principal only when a new decision is to be taken. That is what we believe is a change that will help to increase confidence in the UN, and can dampen the conflicts in individual cases. A better process can also contribute to fewer complaints. It can make it clear that a refusal is a refusal, and thus also contributes to several voluntary returns. I'm dealing with what the Labour Party proposal is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2472	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2477	Applicants for asylum in Norway shall meet with a secure and effective procedure. A good asylum process is essential for those who actually have a real need for protection and for those who do not need protection to be returned quickly. The rapid and effective functioning of the procedure is also essential for the rapid clarification of the situation of those who are to be allowed to stay in Norway, so that they can also be quickly integrated into the Norwegian community. The right-hand parts of the intention of the proposers are that the asylum process should be legally safe. In Norway, we have a safe and effective procedure. Norwegian administration, legislation and practice carry out the international obligations we have. And even though the Right believes that we have a legal asylum process today, that doesn't mean that we shouldn't or can't see if we're still going to make changes and improvements in the future. To mention something, there are a number of measures in the Granavolden platform. Among other things, the government must ensure the prompt processing of asylum applications, without jeopardising the legal certainty of each asylum seeker. A review of the appeal procedure shall also be carried out in the foreign field, the legal aid system shall be strengthened, children shall be heard more orally, we shall consider practices in complaints relating to persecution on grounds of religion, and a hearing shall also be held on matters of personal interest in asylum where the assessment theme is the credibility of a conversion — to mention something. Government parties have also already agreed on concrete proposals that will provide more legal certainty in the asylum process, while at the same time we are committed to ensuring a rapid and effective procedure for those in need of protection. The intention behind the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted to make the asylum process more judicial is, therefore, largely respected by the government platform on which we also stand. I record that the Workers' Party and the Centre's party in the setting have also found inspiration from the government platform in their minority proposal. They therefore wish to review the appeal procedure in the foreign field, which is also intended to increase the use of verbality in the appeal procedure. These are exactly the points I read from the government platform, and the wording is also not very different. That is also why we are not going to support the proposals today, but rather respond to the follow-up that comes from the government. It is also important to mention that if we are to ensure that the asylum process is more effective and remains legally secure, we must ensure that the number of groundless asylum seekers is kept down. That work shall continue with the work of the Government to ensure a more legal certainty of the asylum process, as is also evident in the Government Platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2492	It has been important for this government for a very difficult period to ensure effective management in the foreign field. Despite major arrivals in 2015-2016, the government has made it clear. Legal certainty for asylum seekers in Norway is good. It is well-managed and in several areas it can be said to be better cared for than for others who meet with public administration. Asylum seekers in Norway have a number of complaints procedures, they have a number of opportunities to re-examine their case, they have a number of organisations in their backs ready to help them, and they also have free legal assistance. What we are discussing in the field of legal certainty for asylum seekers is the extent to which one should go beyond it as for example. is in the Administrative Act for reasons of legal certainty. The law of administration is clear – counterjection is part of it. The question is, should we go further to provide better legal certainty than others would have to experience in the meeting with the government? The Progress Party agrees that legal certainty should continue to be good for asylum seekers, because these are important issues we are talking about. It is of great importance to human life, therefore, it is possible that legal certainty is also better than what can be said that it is for others in the meeting with public administration. As others have pointed out, the Government is required to review the appeal procedure in the foreign field. Of course, it is to see whether there are improvements both in terms of efficiency and in order to improve legal certainty if necessary. One thing that's been mentioned in the pulpit here is dealing with matters that have become known to be invalid. This may be a case in which it is not unreasonable to submit to an examination if a decision has become invalid. That's what the government is going to come back to and shed some light on the future. I'm sure the Council of State will also light this up. However, it is not necessary to add an denominator in all cases, for example: if UNE intends to adopt a new decision in favour of the applicant. This is going to be illuminated in the future. To sum up, the Progress Party believes that we have good governance, we have a high level of legal certainty for asylum seekers. That's the way it should be, here's a lot of consideration to take, and it's been well cared for by the government until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2505	Of course, the centre party believes it is important to ensure that foreign affairs are handled in a secure manner, I think everyone agrees. The outcome of the proceedings is of great importance to those involved, and we need to ensure that our system is safe and fair. The proposers from the Christian People's Party believe it requires full opposition, or at least they meant it when the proposal was put forward. The People's Party agrees that more objection and orality are desirable in the proceedings. At the same time, we believe that this would be an unnecessary restriction on UNE and UDI's ability to make assessments of what cases are necessary for full counter-dictation. We believe it is important to create a good framework and provide clear leadership, but when we have a system where everyone who is denied can appeal to UNE, and most people take advantage of that opportunity, it will be an unnecessary resource use and heavy-duty solution to impose demands for full counter-dictation in all cases. The centre party considers that a review of the appeal procedure is necessary in order to seek even greater legal certainty as well as opposition to the cases where appropriate. Furthermore, I refer to the criticism of UNE for lack of orality. I think it is unfortunate if verbality is not used sufficiently if it can help to strengthen understanding between the parties in these cases. Orality and objection are particularly important in the cases where new aspects of the appeal are brought. In those cases, it is important for the anchorer to respond to the factors UNE has taken into account in its treatment, especially if they have based their case on arguments other than those underlying the treatment at UDI. There is a need for a review of practices and, therefore, the Centre Party and the Labour Party are promoting proposals where we ask the Government to: ‘have reviewed the appeal procedure in the foreign field with the expectation that this implies better legal certainty for asylum seekers, including the increased use of counter-dictation and orality in the appeal procedure.’;» Furthermore, I would like to stress that matters which are appealed to the Supreme Court, and in which complaints are supported, must be regarded as important matters of principle. If the decisions in the proceedings have been found faulty or deficient, it is important to learn from them in order to ensure better treatment and greater certainty that the decisions taken are correct. We have heard examples that these matters have been dealt with by the head of department for himself, and the centre party believes that this is unfortunate. We believe that decisions in such cases could gain greater legitimacy if they were dealt with by a denominator of more than one person. That is why, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we are promoting proposals asking the government to come to the Grand Duchy with an amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act so that cases where the decisions of the foreign authorities are known to be invalid in the legal system are not to be dealt with by the head of staff when a new decision is taken. Finally, the representative Holm Lønsenth was out there and accused us of practically plaguing the Granavolden-Declaration in our proposals. Then I have to say it is quite perceptive that the government parties today are going to vote against those proposals, which were then said to be a copy of their own government statement. It's mildly said especially.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2533	Document 8 is the opposition's privilege of promoting issues for the Storting. The opportunity used by the Christian People's Party also when we were in a cooperation agreement with the government – if one can call it a pure opposition, one can discuss. The situation today is different, so today it looks like we're against what we're for. We're not. Our primary policy is still firm, but if you go into a government, there are some commitments to it. Four parties shall cooperate, and it is not always that one party shall have a majority alone. So this makes the Christian People's Party with a certain degree of boldness, and I refer to the Granavolden Declaration, as it has been done before today. What has already been asked in Granavolden is that the government should ‘ensure the rapid processing of asylum applications without jeopardising the legal certainty of asylum seekers’ and that the government will ‘revisit the foreign appeal’. Then we expect, just as we expect, among other things. The Labour Party is making a clear improvement to this, with reference to the Granavolden Declaration, because if we don't expect any changes to happen, there's no reason for the Storting to ask for investigations either. So that's why I have that expectation -- we're meeting that review with great anticipation, so that it'll be properly attended to. The majority of the committee then pointed out the incomprehensible fact that UNE has re-examined an appeal case in which complaints were upheld by the Norwegian Supreme Court. This is the case with Farida, as has been said here before. No, the Christian People's Party has not removed our amazement at the resistance to this and will work for the regulation to be amended so that this cannot happen. It's not fit to create confidence that we have a fair system, and Karin Andersen was in on this. No, the Christian People's Party is not going to promote its own Document 8, but – and I can promise – we are going to work for the government to come back with a proposal that is in line with the original proposal at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2545	I believe that today's UN process provides a good balance between the interests of legal certainty, efficiency, legitimacy and political governance. The counter-dictation clause promoted in the proposal for a representative is inspired by the rules of the Arbitration Act on the Court of Justice, where two parties oppose each other. This is not appropriate for the proceedings of the UN Administrative Board, where the UNE Secretariat is responsible for the internal preparation of the case and where only the foreigner is a party. As in the case of other administrative bodies, the rules of the Administrative Act on counterjection apply to UNE. I have noticed that this is a central wish from among others. humanitarian organisations to provide party access to the UN Secretariat’s internal comments. It follows, however, from the Administrative Act that there is no such right of access to the internal observations of the Administrative Board, and this is good reason for doing so. It is quite normal in the administrative context that the final decision-maker of the management body should have the matter prepared internally. It is important to ensure that internal communication can be open and direct. For example, if the UN Secretariat’s internal comments were to be submitted to the non-resident, it would do so. be difficult for the Secretariat to provide internal advice on the full or partial follow-up of a complaint, since it may be that the facilitator or the members of the denominator disagree. If, for reasons of control, the Secretariat makes recommendations as to what the complainant may be asked to do at the hearing, a right of transparency will enable the complainant to meet with a prepared explanation. However, the Ministry of Justice and Defence is working on a new consultation note, where we are looking at whether it should be made clear in the foreign regulation that reports and assessments prepared by Landinfo on the specific case, as a starting point, are to be submitted to the foreigner. The Ministry should also provide stronger regulatory guidance to define in advance the theme of student meetings in matters of personal presence and to inform the foreigner accordingly. This will make it easier for the stranger and his lawyer to prepare for the meeting. With regard to the proposal of the Committee of the General Court to amend the rules on orality in particular, this proposal would provide a greater opportunity for non-residents to request a hearing. The government will not be in favour of such a provision as the sample has proposed, but we are working on a consultation note on matters where UNE's decision is known to be void by a court. The proposal would imply that, as a general rule, consideration should be given to the adoption of a new negative decision by UNE in such cases. I note that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have proposed a rule that all cases where UNE has lost its place in court should be dealt with in plenary sessions. I understand the intention behind the proposal. However, I would like to stress that in the case where the host will take a new decision in favour of the foreigner, it may not be necessary initially to attend. I also see that there may be a need for other exceptions, and I will come back to this in the consultation note that is being prepared. I would also like to consider a proposal for rules to cover the costs of a lawyer in cases where children are invited to a case-by-case discussion in UNE. The Granavolden Platform has explicitly stated that it is to be attended by the audience with personal presence in asylum cases where the assessment theme is credible in the event of a conversion. In connection with this point and in connection with the follow-up to the Granavolden Platform for Other Matters, the Ministry will also look at other aspects of the legislation on when to hold a public meeting with personal presence. This is why we come back to this in connection with a public hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2569	It is the following proposals which are being discussed by the Christian People's Party: ‘1. The government is asked to take action to ensure full opposition to the appeal proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Study. 2nd@item: inlistbox The size calls on the government to take action to ensure that a significantly larger number of persons are given the opportunity to explain themselves orally through appeal proceedings in the Foreign Office.’ So this is the Christian People's Party's representative proposal that we are dealing with. In view of the proposal we actually have here on the table, can the Council of State give a reason why the Council of State and the Government disagree with the Christian People's Party on what kind of changes should be made to the complaints in the foreign field?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2583	I explained in my article some of the assessments we are making, and I also stress that objection already applies in the Administrative Act. We're assuming that it's the administration law that's going to apply. But as stated in the Granavolden Declaration, we want to go through the complaints and see if we can make improvements in them. The arrangements, with the improvements that we may propose, we will come back to. So we haven't done that review.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2588	However, I would like to hear from the Council of State, which refers to the government platform, and so does the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the document. But can the Council of State not mention any examples of what he might consider? Is it increased orality? Is there an increased contrast? Is it that the facilitator alone should not take a new decision in cases where the decision is unknown in the legal system? Or doesn't the Council of State and the government know what they want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2593	In my post I told you about some areas where we're considering making changes. We'll come up with increased oralism in terms of conversion. We also want a general review of increased oralism in children's matters. But it's not just within this, it's a general review that will be done by the Minister for the Child, and we'll look at other measures that can strengthen this process. I understand that the representative would like me to advance the work that the government is going to do, but I am therefore not able to give any further explanation than what I have already done in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2600	Cases that have gone to the Supreme Court and where complaints have been supported by the fact that the proceedings are incomplete must be said to be important questions of principle. I expect that view to be shared by the Council of State. We see examples of such cases in the case of new treatment in the UN being treated by a tutor entirely by itself. This is what the Center Party believes is unfortunate, and we think that the decision would have been more legitimate if these matters had been dealt with in terms of more people. When a new decision is to be taken in such cases, it is important that we have a decision of great legitimacy. I guess this is a very limited number of cases – it could probably be confirmed or cancelled by the Council of State. Therefore, my question is: what does the Council of State think about the legitimacy of such decisions, and does not the Council of State see that it may be unfortunate that there is an individual who should take such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2607	As I explained in my post, we will produce a consultation note that deals with exactly this. What we've been thinking about here is that it's natural when the principal considers taking a new, negative decision, to have an denominator. However, there is also reason to ask the representative back if it is such that a person believes that if a decision is declared void by the court and the principal believes that a new decision should be taken in favour of the foreigner, we should nevertheless have a hearing. It's these things we think there's reason to ask questions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2614	Firstly, can the Council of State perhaps explain how many issues this applies? So over to something completely different. The representative Holm Lønseth said that our proposal here in the hall today was a plagiarism from the Granavolden platform. What, then, is the reason why the government parties cannot vote for this proposal, which is roughly exactly what is on the platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2621	I don't have the numbers in front of me that the representative wants, but they are quite possible to come back to. It's actually an information on how many cases it's about. Of course, what's on the Granavolden platform is what we're doing for the further work. It's always a bit of a special opposition policy to take on what the government says it should do, and then make suggestions where the government asks the government to do what the government has told it to do. It's also a special form of opposition policy. I think the best thing is to assume that the government will do what it writes in the Granavolden platform, and I intend to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2628	It is true that the words ‘increased the use of opposition and the possibility of appeal’ are different from those of the Granavolden platform. If I understood the statements of the Council of State correctly, he parked both the possibility of opposition and the wish that more people should be given the opportunity to explain themselves personally and orally in matters. Can the Council of State say whether this is a correct perception of the statements of the Council of State, or whether the Council of State is also open to these two concrete points of opposition and increased orality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2634	The important thing for me was to stress that already today there are rules in relation to opposition. It is important that there is no left impression that this is not the case, the rules of the Administrative Act apply. I have also explained in my article some things that can strengthen the possibility of the stranger in a counter-pointing situation, for example. by giving him access to land information, which will be an important part – to tell something more about what theme will be relevant when he meets the topic. These are the things we're assessing. A more important point is to look at the complaint in itself, and we will do that. In my article, I've really just underlined the ways we evaluate. All those roads are intended to strengthen the complainant’s situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2641	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2648	The Council of State tries to create the impression that neither the proposers nor the SV know that the administrative rules apply. Yes, they do, but that's exactly what the Graver Committee has investigated and said that is not good enough in the UN complaint procedure. UNE was supposed to be a court-like institution when it was adopted. A court-like institution cannot be a purely administrative institution, for it must ensure legal certainty in an area where misappropriation is fatal. Ensuring better legal certainty in this area is necessary, and it has been established by the Graver Committee that it is. I hear that the opposition is talking about that there should be free attendance on issues of conversion. I am pleased because more investigations have also been carried out to show that the proceedings in those areas have been very weak. However, that is not enough – it is not enough – there must be the possibility of personal presence in other matters as well, and there must be the possibility of transparency in the information to be answered. I heard that both the Progress Party and the Council of State spoke as if all of these things were about someone trying to trick the system, that they were meeting up prepared and designed. It probably says something about what kind of attitude you have to these things. There's a lot of fake news in today's world, there's a lot of false information in a lot of channels. Everyone may be exposed to it; the authorities may be exposed to it, but the individual may also be exposed to it. There is a need to strengthen legal certainty in these processes and there is a need to strengthen legal assistance. It is not right that the government has strengthened legal aid, the free legal aid is severely weakened in many areas under this government. It can't be that because it's gotten so bad in other areas, you have to make it worse. Legal aid schemes in the field of asylum have been curtailed. It's not just the Graver range that says this. I have been present today where a report on what the Stortinget did in connection with the Storskog cases was presented. It shows that we are far above the edges of our international commitments — and also weakens legal certainty. Finally, nobody wants groundless asylum seekers to come to Norway. I wish that debate were put aside, because that is not what this is all about. This is a matter of legal certainty, and that principle should apply to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2661	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2677	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2686	First of all, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, which deals with a proposal from the representatives of the elderly Petter Eide, Freddy André Øvstegård and Karin Andersen for dealing with serious mental illness in prison. In the proposal for a representative, the proposers stress that the supply of serious mentally ill people in prison for many years has not been satisfactory, and that it has been an increase in the use of coercive measures and in the deviations between the powers and the inadequacies towards adding. The proposers show me more. to criticism from the Civilo Ombudsman and the UN Human Rights Committee in the background of the case. In addition, they point out that staff capacity and building structures prevent the mentally ill from providing a satisfactory supply. Proposalers are probably quite right that, over time and through shifting governments, there has been too little focus on the quality and content of housing for prison inmates. In addition, there is a large maintenance run on buildings, and the conditions in several of our prisons can in no way be said to be optimal on the basis of modern standards. The availability of interventions with mental health challenges is not good enough. They've been falling between two chairs for years. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection are working together to strengthen treatment provision in the field of mental health protection in criminal care, and to ensure better transitions between criminal and health services. I would like to stress that prisons in Norway have the same health care rights as the general population. All host municipalities and health regions have cooperation agreements with their respective criminal care regions. In 2018, regional health professionals were given a clear responsibility to take action to increase the availability of mental health protection for prison inmates through the Health and Welfare Department’s letter of assignment. Both in the Jelaua platform and in the Granavolden platform, the government party emphasises that we want to reduce the use of insulation, and we want to assume that the use of insulation can be harmful to the insertion. There should be a good balance between punishment and rehabilitation, and we will work for a more rehabilitating criminal enforcement system by focusing more on the content of soning. Under the theme of health and care, there is a need to strengthen the provision of detoxification and life-mestering for drug use problems and to strengthen treatment provision in the field of mental health protection in criminal care. The Civilo Ombudsman and the UN Human Rights Committee are taking their criticism seriously. It shows, not least, the commitment of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health and Welfare to these challenges. The rapporteurs particularly highlighted the situation in Ila prison in the draft representative. The creation of an own resource team at Ila in 2014 has produced positive results in reducing the use of isolation and activating its deployment. We also see that the competences that have been built up by Ila will also benefit from criminal services, for example. the resource team’s contribution to the KRUS training. In the state budget for 2019, Stortinget adopted a promise of 18.3 million. to establish a new nationally reinforced Community department for the seriously mentally ill at Ila. This action will improve the physical organisation of prisons, while at the same time the department will be given extra high staff, especially as the health care section is strengthened. I have good faith that such a department will contribute to a significant improvement in the provision of health for a group of people with particular challenging needs. In general, it is important to work to get more people involved in the activity, because we know that this has a positive effect on the mental health of those involved. Crime agencies are working to lower the threshold and increase the activation of vulnerable inserts through, among others. to test so-called shared working days. Substitution of old building mass by new prisons organised for community and activity is also an important contribution to increased activity. The government has taken considerable steps to rehabilitate existing prisons, not least by building new prisons in Agder, which will be ready next year. Many have been done, but we're not in the goal. We've started an extensive race to ensure better and more targeted quality in the supply of prisoners, not least to the group that has the biggest challenges. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the four governmental parties will not support the proposal that is before the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2722	Time is ripe to strengthen the work of serious mental health professionals in criminal care. The theme has been highlighted several times over the last year, including: through the Fengslet and Abandoned documentary, which was shown at the NRK Focus. Both the Civil Ombudsman and the United Nations Committee on Human Rights have identified serious errors and shortcomings. The Working Party believes that serious mental illness should be ensured through the specialist healthcare system and that criminal services should be able to handle seriously mentally ill rapidly in order to ensure a decent and healthy treatment. The increasing use of isolation and coercion in prisons is unsustainable. It is linked to a deterioration in the capacity for treatment and rehabilitation in criminal services, but it is also about strengthening the framework for the treatment of the sick. The fact that the government has now made use of funds to set up new places at Ila for the group of seriously mentally ill in prisons is a proper step forward. But believing that this in itself solves the problem and is sufficient is at its best naive. The Workers' Party agrees with the proposers that there is a need for a leverage to ensure for the future that mentally ill and seriously ill people receive the help and treatment they are entitled to, including in prison. In Norway, we have the world's most educated prison officers. They are schooled both for the rehabilitation of prisoners and for the proper implementation of criminal sanctions. But they are not trained to handle seriously mentally ill people, nor are they seriously ill people. This requires specialist health care and their professional competence. That is why the Labour Party is behind proposal No. 1 by the proposers, to ensure: ‘a stepping-up plan to strengthen the capacity to deal with serious psychiatric offenders in psychiatry and to strengthen treatment provision in prisons’. Furthermore, the Labour Party will strengthen the framework of criminal care, so that good prison officers across the country are better equipped to ensure the proper treatment of serious mental illness. We are proposing a concrete action plan to ensure adequate training of staff in criminal matters in this area, for employees are the cornerstone of strengthening and developing the very resource teams in criminal matters. Criminal protection shall be capable of providing appropriate mental health protection and care through the use of ‘enhanced Community compartment’. If convicted of serious mental illness is taken out of the Community, medical examination shall be carried out by a physician competent to the patient group and shall take place within 24 hours and shall be requested promptly to be admitted to mental health protection — if necessary. Finally, if this action plan proposed by the Workers' Party is to be effective and implemented, the financial framework must be in place. It is therefore necessary to calculate the economic impact and to provide the necessary follow-up in the budget. It has to end with serious mental illness being isolated in criminal custody. People get sick from isolation, and sick people don't get healthy by being isolated. With this I propose the Labour Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2746	The representative of Maria Aasen-Svensrud has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2751	There is no doubt that there is an important topic being debated here today. People with mental disorders who have caused them to be punished and who have to go to prison are a theme that is important for us to address in this room and to look at the treatment these receive. Let me underline that this is not a new theme. I remember that the Workers' Party promoted a big message about the content of compensation some years ago. This theme is not over-mature; it's a theme we've been familiar with. There is a group in Norwegian prisons that is particularly vulnerable, and it is important that they receive a good offer. It is also very important that those who are in prison with mental disorders or complex challenges are entitled to exactly the same healthcare as the rest of the population. It's too easy to say that we can just move them over to the psychiatry, because it's also important that they have people around them, skilled people in criminal matters, who give them the framework they're going to have. Then it's the health service that's going to provide the prisoners with the services. I fully agree with what both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice point out, that this is a group that has often fallen between two chairs. We have also seen that in relation to other services that society is going to provide. We can take care of child protection, where children who have been in child protection and who have also needed help in mental health have often fallen between two chairs. That's why one of the most important things we can do is to get good cooperation. There must be cross-service cooperation to provide services to the persons who need them. That's the way we're going to succeed in this work. I am pleased that the government – which the Council of State will probably also come into – has really taken this seriously and already some years ago spent extra money on this work, which is being followed up in the next few years. Already in 2014, a resource team was set up at Ila. A report on the challenges was also provided in 2016, which will now be followed up, in view of the proposals for action in it. I am pleased that this is high on the agenda both on the Jeløya platform and in the work done by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health. More money has also been allocated to this. Again, this is an important theme. Those who are mentally ill should have a treatment offer, but it is also important that they have a clear and good framework and that this work is done in criminal matters. I agree with the previous speakers: we do have some of the best prisons in the world, and we also have professionals who have knowledge and competence. But they are often in a difficult situation when they get prisoners with mental disorders, and then it's important that they get the support they need in the work they're going to do. Then it is incredibly important that there is a cooperation between those services, that mental health has a good cooperation with the criminal services in order to provide the prisoners with the help and treatment they need while serving the punishment they have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2766	The SV representative’s proposal points to an alarming trend in Norwegian prisons. There has been an increase in power and threats against addition, and there has been an increase in the use of isolation and coercive measures against their insertion. The situation is exacerbated by the lack of resources and too few added resources in criminal services. They will not be able to give in to prison the follow-up they can and will give. Norway cannot accept the situation that we have in prison today. Norway is aware of a humane criminal code, a criminal code that leads to a relapse into crime. Rehabilitation is a primary goal of prison. It is important for social security that those who have their sentence do not reindeer in crime when they come out, and that they are able to live law-abiding lives. It doesn't matter what happens inside the walls of prison, both in the interest of the inmate and of society. When we get right that the increase in the use of isolation both creates and reinforces mental illness among the inmates, there is reason to respond. The use of isolation in prison has been strongly criticised by the Civil Ombudsman, the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights and the United Nations Committee on Human Rights. Due to the lack of alternatives, there are many interventions that are effectively isolated on the cell. Some of these are already mentally ill when put into isolation, and end up getting worse even during isolation. More people who are not already mentally ill can develop mental illness as a result of the isolation they are exposed to. It is well documented that isolation, especially over a long period of time, can lead to long-term damage. It is therefore an important theme of the proposal put forward by the proposers. The center part agrees with the problem description. We strongly support the intentions of the proposal, but we also have some alternative proposals in hand. I am pleased that the government party in its comments stresses that the criticism that has come from the Civilo Ombudsman and the United Nations Committee on Human Rights must be taken seriously. Nevertheless, I would like this to be translated into more practical policies. Special attention must be paid to the supply of those with serious mental illness. It is urgent to put forward an action plan to ensure a real escalation of the supply of health and follow-up of serious mental illness in prison, as a basis for an economic escalation in the annual government budgets to come. The Centre Party has also made a concrete proposal on the establishment of an ‘enhanced Community department’ at Ila. There are some concerns from, for example: The Norwegian Confederation of Prisons and Welfare and the Professional Association of Criminal Welfare that one may end up with a department not owned by the intended user group. It is important that a necessary preparatory work is done here. Professional competence must be involved in the design of a Community department in order to be consistent with the task to be carried out and the design of the Community environmental therapeutic unit. With this, I take up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2783	The representative Geir Inge Lien has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2788	I am very pleased that we are given the opportunity to have this discussion. This is one of the most advanced and vulnerable groups in society. This matter is not very difficult. At the heart of the proposal is that prisons should not take responsibility for those who are mentally ill. That's easy to say: the prisons should not take responsibility for those who are seriously mentally ill. We're going to lose voting today, but I still think we're winning the case, because we're giving this group the attention they need. And I'm a little proud that we've been allowed to be representatives of this group, who don't have any other figures. I experience in this matter that I meet a wall of goodwill. Everyone agrees that this is bad. Everyone agrees that this is bad, but no one will take the necessary steps to change it. The decision the Stortinget will take today is a Norwegian championship in disclaimer and relaxed decision, of the type ‘we shall ask the government to ensure a deadline’. Frankly, President, weak decisions can hardly be made by the Stortinget. There is now a very small group of mentally ill people who are scattered in some prisons, and they are so bad that they have nothing to do in a prison. I was at the Bredtveit prison on Thursday and was allowed to meet a lady there. She barely knew why she was there. She did not know what she had done wrong. She barely managed to prepare for herself and her own story. Honestly, she has nothing to do in a prison. She was largely alone and isolated on her cell. Three times she had been picked up by prison officers because she had tried to take her life. But prison has no other option than that they have to keep her. Staff are screaming for help, they are screaming for us to come and help them now – not until a Community department is established, not until we come back with an action plan. They want help now, and there is no one in Stortingen, except SV, who wants prompt action. These prisoners are so poor that it is impossible for them to participate in joint activities. The result is that they are largely isolated on their cells. In Ila prison, where I've also been visiting, they can tell you about serious mental illness that's been largely locked up on the cell's 24 hours a day for six years. Think about it! That is why I believe that the Stortinget could today make a decision to ensure that criminal justice should be released from the responsibility of this group. The employees will. They're tired of drying blood and faeces and dealing with suicide attempts. The proposals, at their core, are that capacity should be built in cooperation between health and justice to ensure this. There we have received some support from other parties. What we're not being supported for is that there should be legal arrangements, specific regulations, that actually prevent this group from being isolated on its cells. This is in the joint opinion of the Committee, but when it comes to the proposal for a decision, the majority goes away from it. We also believe that arrangements should be made through regulations that prevent psychiatry, once they have received them, quickly send them back to prison, where they will again be isolated after a short period of time. So the bulk of the population says it's too easy – and even naively, we're told from the Workers' Party – to make such kind of decisions. Well, I would agree if this had been big hordes of new patient groups, but it might be about five, ten, or fifteen people. And in a large country with good resources, this is absolutely not an impossibility. The larger number, the larger number, is going to be different. The decision we're going to make today will result in criminal care still, indefinitely, having to take responsibility for those who are the most mentally ill. This is against the will of the employees. They want a completely different solution. Combined with the fact that the government is also making cuts in the appropriations for prisons, this group is getting even worse. So my prophecy is that the five, ten, fifteen, maybe twenty serious mentally ill will get even worse in the years that come, because the Storting does not dare to make a proper decision. With this I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2816	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2821	This case deals with one of the most sensitive and complex issues that we have in society. Follow-up of convicted persons with severe mental disorders requires the utmost of our human vision. Serious mental illness is entitled to adequate treatment even if criminals have been committed, even cruel acts. It's going to be a quality sign of our social view. It is therefore quite alarming that today’s condition is not satisfactory. Something has to be done. We need to balance the health and state of convictions against the needs of society for protection and protection in an optimal way. There is now a situation that requires extra effort. We've received reports that indicate that. We isolate convicted people with special means of power and methods, which require extra political vigilance and responsibility. Also, State Council Höie says today that the offer to prisoners with mental health challenges is not good enough, and that they may have fallen between two chairs. The Christian People's Party will contribute to change and improvement and is therefore very pleased that the Granavolden platform is clear that the treatment offer to this particular group of people should be strengthened, among others. with a new strengthened Community department of Ila, resource teams and cooperation agreements with host municipalities on adapted health services. Resources must be provided and skills developed where background and coherence are assessed in the treatment. There are many demanding elements that can be included in their housing — psychiatry, other health, drug problems and social behaviour that have entered an unacceptable criminal career. The Christian People's Party sees that there has been a long process in the Committee on this matter. We do not have members of the Judicial Committee and have therefore only followed the case from the sideline. Furthermore, I can say that I am pleased that my colleagues in the government parties in the committee are aware that the criticism from the Civil Ombudsman and the UN Human Rights Committee should be taken seriously. It was just supposed to be missing. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals of the government parties in the matter because we have addressed the major challenges. The fact that we are therefore voting against the proposal for a representative is due to the fact that the state budget already this year leads to significant concrete improvements, and that the Christian People's Party will follow this matter carefully further now that we are in government. Finally, I would like to commend and thank the staff of institutions and prisons that meet these major challenges on a daily basis, on behalf of us in the big society. It is the Christian People's Party's wish that they receive the necessary training and adapted and sufficient resources to carry out this important and demanding work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2843	Prisoners in Norwegian prisons have the same right to health care as other citizens. Prisoners shall receive healthcare and other welfare services from the same actors as the other population. Criminal services shall facilitate the reception of services by individual prisoners. As a result, health and care services in municipalities and specialist health services, not criminal services, are responsible for providing healthcare and competence in the treatment of mentally ill people. Health services fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Health. Many of the elements contained in the proposal for a representative relate to or affect the capacity of healthcare. In my written opinion to the Stortinget on the proposal for a representative, I have reproduced the opinion of the Minister for Health. When the Judicial Committee asked for an opinion on the proposal for a representative, I therefore sought the opinion of the Minister for Health. There he explained, among other things: for the responsibilities of the municipality and the health region for prison inmates. Furthermore, the Minister of Health stated that the mission document of regional health businesses for 2018 included action to increase the availability of mental health protection for prisoners and that the Ministry of Health will receive feedback in spring 2019. The statement by the Minister of Health, which I communicated to the Stortinget, further explains the work of increasing the capacity of security psychiatrists and the establishment of a dedicated SIFER centre of competence in Tromsø. SIFER is a national centre of expertise for security, prison and judicial psychiatry. It is also mentioned in the Granavolden platform that the government will strengthen the provision of mental health services in criminal justice and limit the use of isolation. Under the Criminal Procedures Act, isolation may be imposed by the Court of Justice in the context of custody. In criminal matters, the term ‘total or partial exclusion’ applies to persons who, for various reasons, are decided wholly or partly in isolation. In some cases, such exclusion or use of other coercive substances, such as: security cell: prisoners who may be a threat to other prisoners, to employees or to themselves. We have an obligation to also protect prisoners and employees, and then deferrals and coercive measures may sometimes be necessary. The problem arises when excluded prisoners do not have sufficient activation or meaningful human contact. The Government wants to reduce unnecessary use of isolation, exclusion and coercive agents and aims to increase the activation of prisoners. The State budget for 2019 has decided to establish a nationally strengthened Community department of the Ila prison and detention centre for highly aggressive and mentally ill prisoners. This action shall contribute to the prevention and prevention of long-term isolation and will improve the reconciliation of some of the prisoners to whom the main challenges lie. The government is very serious about the criticism that has come both from the civil ombudsman and from other national and international bodies, against the conditions for prisoners with mental illness. Criticisms include: the fact that prisoners with mental illness face coercive measures and isolation rather than health services. There is a need to review the legislation on the use of coercive agents and exclusions from the community with other prisoners. This work is being carried out by the Department. In addition, it is underlined in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare for 2019 that the Directorate is to ensure compliance with the legislation on the isolation and use of coercive agents and that the necessary guidelines are in place. Other issues of the management dialogue are coercion and isolation in prisons. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare works, among others: by strengthening the reporting procedures for the use of coercive agents and exclusions from the Community, and with an action plan for the prevention of isolation. One of the challenges of isolation is that we have prison buildings that do not facilitate community life. Today we are more aware of the importance of community for health and rehabilitation than we were before and when many of these prisons were built. The aim must be to keep coercion and isolation to a minimum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2867	In the context of the budget, the Government has set aside funds for the establishment of a nationally strengthened Community department of Ila. This is good. But does the Council of State really think that this is enough to meet the serious problem of serious mental illness? Does the Council of State think that these places alone are enough to achieve the objective of adequate health care and to avoid the isolation of serious mental illness for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2872	The funds allocated for 2019 to which the representative refers are funds earmarked for mental illness in Ila. In addition, the activities and offers of ordinary health care are made to prisoners. And, as the Minister of Health has explained, in his mission paper he has asked for action to be taken to increase the availability of mental health protection for prisoners. Similarly, in our dialogue with the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, we have asked that they review the legislation for that. So that happens more than just what you see in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2877	Thanks for the answer. Nevertheless, today’s opposition has proposed a number of concrete measures that would remedy the situation of serious mental illness in prison. Both a stepping-up plan, a concrete action plan including, inter alia, training of staff, development of resource teams and clear rules for dealing with serious mental illness are proposed. The games from the right-wing government don't seem to want to support this today. Does the Council of State really think that none of these proposals are good and will be able to help in the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2882	I have a great deal of understanding of the proposals and a great deal of understanding of the concerns that exist, and I believe that the intentions and many of the measures to which they refer are those of the ordinary budgets and of the close governance dialogue through the health authorities and the criminal services. It's not like unless you label something in the Storting, it doesn't happen. The normal thing is that we give appropriations and use the governance dialogue and the mission letters to say what we think is important, and what priority should be given, and both by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, it has been stressed that this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2887	The Norwegian Prison and Free Health Association and the Association of Criminal Services have shown that the joint department currently being built at Ila is only a regular department where no special arrangements will be made to address insulation damage and to carry out the desired environmental therapeutic work. How does the Council of State address that criticism? And will he consider a new start-up deadline to ensure the necessary pre-work, where professional competence is involved in the design of the Community department?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2894	I assume that the Directorate of Crime and Health is doing what has been decided upon in the Stortinget. An enhanced Community department will be built to facilitate this. What is – to say – the responsibility of the criminal services and the justice sector is to ensure that a building mass is provided for it. There will also be employees working on it. It is that the second part of the job is to be done by the health service, but it is the health service that gets into the criminal care system and does a job. That's how the model is. The health service comes in, but we, who are responsible for the prison system, need to facilitate good working conditions for the health service. That's what's going to happen on Ila. I'm assuming that's what you want to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2907	It may be quite disappointing for people who work in criminal matters, to follow this debate, because it seems quite bureaucratic and characterized by great words and technicalities. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice for something a little concrete. So there's a group of seriously mentally ill in prisons now – they're there now – and they should, in my view, be out tomorrow. What will the Minister of Justice do now, urgently, so that we can solve this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2914	I'm a little unsure about how to understand the question, but if the question is that the Minister of Justice is going to make sure people get out of prison, I'm not going to. There is a regulatory framework on how to achieve resolution interruptions, assessed in accordance with clear criteria on how to do so, and with a health care assessment. It is not the Minister of Justice who is responsible for health professionals to assess individuals in prisons, it is the health services and the criminal services that are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2922	I think the Minister of Justice misunderstood the question. Then I have to say it again. So there's a group of seriously mentally ill people in prison. They have patient status, they have patient rights. So they're not going to be in prison, but they're still there. They should be tested expeditiously, in the short term. The plans outlined by the Minister of Justice in his statement are plans that will in some way only be implemented in a long time, but we need a solution now. My question is, what does he want to do for this group now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2929	Some mentally ill prisoners will be treated in prisons. Some people will need to take out and place in the health care system. But these are concrete assessments made by the health service. So there's not a general rule about it, it's a general rule that the normal thing is to get health care in prison. We have to remember that for this reason there is a trial with a court that has passed a judgment, and that sentence is imprisonment. Then, of course, you can take people out and place them in the health care system, if that is specifically necessary, but there should be no general powers about it. I'm going to have one concern that I think is important. Just because we have a health care system and a criminal care system, I don't rule out anyone falling between two chairs, and here we have a coordination problem with who is responsible for a group that needs help from both prison and health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2936	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2943	Over the years, criminal services have experienced budget cuts, including: as a result of the red tape and efficiency reform. This has contributed to low staffing in prisons and cut down on activities. The result is poorer rehabilitation and increased use of insulation. The situation has been strongly criticised by, among others: Prisoners, the Bar Association and the Civil Ombudsman. There is a much higher proportion of people with mental and drug problems in prison than in the general population. It has, among other things, have been confirmed in a report by the Competence Centre for Safety, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry for Health South-East. Prisoners have the same right to health services as the rest of the population. Nevertheless, access to psychiatric health care is more difficult. Instead, many are met with lock-in and isolation, which can lead to long-term damage. Criminal custody should help prisoners to live a better life, without crime, after acquittal. Instead, with increased use of isolation and coercion against seriously ill prisoners, we risk that their condition will deteriorate during detention. Then you don't get better equipped to live a good life after the settlement has been completed. This isn't good for the inmates, and it's not good for society, which they'll once get out again. It is positive that the government has launched some projects to improve the situation of mentally ill prisoners. The development of an enhanced Community division of the Ila prison and detention centre is such a measure. However, it is important to listen to the professional environment in the design of this department. In this way, the department can be adapted to the group it is intended to be. It is also important to remember that the problems are complex, and we need to find solutions at the intersection of health and justice. There is a need for a comprehensive plan to strengthen the capacity to follow up the serious mentally ill prisoners, and this plan must cover both criminal and mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2954	It's a strange experience to listen to the representative from the government parties. It may sound like we're completely in agreement, but when I visit prisons, and when I listen to the employees' opinion about their own working life, this is not entirely correct. When the representative, Melvær, talks about the importance of the content of the compensation, such as: activities, tell employees that the activities have gone from constructive work to card games – or perhaps a short walk. When the Right talks about content and good lifelong programmes, the Employees tell them that they have neither people nor the means to implement these programs. So the right-hand government has no power in these words. Criminal custody is built under Solberg and her multiplicity justice ministers. That is why the Labour Party is strengthening criminal justice. Therefore, we agree with the SV that there must be a distinction between who is to be rehabilitated by criminal services and who is to be provided with assistance in the special health service. It may almost seem that the representative from SV has not got this. I can only encourage him to recognize a political co-player when he sees one. Otherwise, Mr Eide's question to the Minister of Justice is good. The situation is here and now, and it would be great if the Council itself or perhaps a representative of the government parties could establish that the project at Ila, the expansion and the launch, will come in line with what has been said in the budget. [[Representant Petter Eide takes his seat on the speaker's chair down on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2965	I'm going here, and I'm going to get a little closer to the Minister of Justice, with whom I'm going to discuss. When we observe that human rights are broken in our presence and we have seen it over a long period of time, we have a commitment as a state of rapid action. We can't sit around and see that it's a group of people whose fundamental rights are broken. Then we actually have to go in and act. It is precisely this lack of will for the concrete action to end the human rights violations that this group is subjected to, the lack of action to do something about it, which is what I miss from the Minister of Justice in this matter. Then I fully agree that this is not something that has emerged with this government. During the red-green government I also took up such things, but then I was in a different role, not a big-time representative of SV. Then I worked in the voluntary sector and criticised the SV – Arbediderparti – Zenterparti-Registration for similar issues. When we see human rights violations, we have an obligation to act, not wrap this into large, complicated, bureaucratic plans about what will happen in many years – we're going to deal with it now. That's the impatience I miss. What we see in the proposal for a decision here, and also in the proposals made by the Labour Party and the Central Party asking for an action plan, is that there is nothing more irresponsible than asking for an action plan. We know that, we're working on this, that it can take years before we get something back. The proposal for a decision, to increase deadlines, is very low in commitment. None of the proposals that have come up here provides any answers to any rapid changes. Then the representative from the Workers' Party tells me that I have to ‘recognize a political co-player’ when I see one. Yes, of course I do, but I think they are simply too weak in this. I'm much more impatient to solve this, much more impatient. I mean, as I said at the outset, that when we see that the rights of people are broken, we have a duty to act. What the Workers' Party is asking for here is too easy to meet this situation in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2978	There is a need to strengthen treatment provision for prison inmates in Norway and to end the use of isolation for those with severe mental illness. As many people have said, entering Norwegian prisons has exactly the same rights to health as the rest of the population. I would like to pay tribute to the SV, who has put forward this proposal for a representative, because it will at least raise the debate and focus on this group, even if our proposals are put down. The Minister of Justice said in his speech that this is also linked to the capacity of the healthcare system. That's right, and I think more from the Health Committee should have come here today and debated this matter. What is the situation is that general psychiatry is under a lot of pressure today. It's huge capacity challenges. The Health Directorate's figures show that 30 pst. of those referred to in general psychiatry today are rejected. According to 2015 figures from the Security Psychiatry, which is the last number I've seen, four out of ten who are referred to the Security Psychiatry, are denied. It is not surprising that we have such a situation in Norwegian prison, when the psychiatry is as pressured as he is. Half of the beds in psychiatry are built down in 20 years, and this is just going on. At Sandviken Hospital in 2018 there were over 300 patients with severe mental illness at the time. It is clear that this capacity in general psychiatry is going beyond the supply of criminal services and in the security psychiatry. I have read what the Minister of Health wrote in his reply to the proposal for a representative. Sorry, but I have no faith that he has understood the seriousness of what is being taken up here. It was shown that this was a trifle, and there's nothing done to ensure that one can actually get a capacity boost. That is what this is all about. One must have a capacity gain in general psychiatry to provide better health services also in Norwegian prisons. It's not just health care. When I'm out talking to those who work with the mentally ill, they might say one thing that's most important: get the crew in criminal care, get rid of the ABE reform, so that a few hours to prevent them from getting sicker about being there, because that's the situation today. For hearing: The centre party will not produce proposal No. 4; it is taken into account in proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e2995	Thank you to the Committee for a good debate. I'm pretty sure we all have the same intentions – that we want to improve the supply to those seriously mentally ill in prison. So I can't quite let you comment on some points: I am a little pleased that the representative Petter Eide pointed out that this is actually not a new matter. All in 2009 we were able to read several news releases from the then government, including: Amnesty International is accusing the government of the United Nations Torture Committee, with a background on the same theme that we are dealing with today. I think it's a little surprising that the Center Party is so critical of the ABE reform – the red tape reform, because once I've actually done the job, and read the Center Party's alternative state budget, I find 88 – I think it was – a point that is about reducing bureaucracy. And to the Labour Party, about the level of activity in prison: I don't have the last annual report from the Criminal Service, but the annual report from 2017 shows that the level of activity has increased with our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3006	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3011	There are many members of staff from the criminal justice community who are listening to the debate we have this afternoon. They may nod to some words and opinions from both myself and my colleagues in the opposition, but if the representative Melvær believes that the reporting obligation for activities shows the real picture of the activities of criminal services, I think neither employees nor inmates will nod to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3016	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3034	On 14 May 1796 is a brand day in the history of medicine and human beings. That day, English village doctor Edward Jenner put his first vaccine on an eight-year-old boy. Jenner's vaccine against cups is called the first big victory of play. Jenner chose the word ‘vacca’ since the infected material came from a cow and cow in Latin is called ‘vacca’. The vaccine was with that invented. The terrible disease of cups is now eradicated globally. A number of vaccines are now our common defence against the greatest killers among us, namely pathogen microbes. Last century gave us antibiotics, and for some decades one lived in the error that infectious diseases are not lethal. Antibiotic resistance is considered to be the climate crisis of medicine. We are soon at risk of being without active agents against a number of microbes. This will mean the end of modern surgery, cancer therapy and transplants, while common infectious diseases can again become fatal. Vaccines are one of the hopes for the future. Norway is a long way to go in the field of vaccine work, and we have a high proportion of vaccinated. Without vaccines, infections remained the main cause of death in Norway. Vaccines are the basis for much longer living today, and today there are many diseases that do not exist in Norway due to vaccines. Those who don't choose to vaccinate their kids help disease-causing bacteria and viruses to live on in our population. Vaccines help to keep the microbes down and out. One may be depressed by reading about parents who deliberately fail to vaccinate their children. Child diseases are a must, asserts the vaccine resistance, while they are, in fact, involved in undermining the vaccines, which is one of the greatest advances in medicine. The boycotting of the vaccine programme is not just a choice on behalf of itself and its children, it affects all the inhabitants, not least the newborns, and it affects those who for medical reasons cannot be vaccinated. Once most of the population is vaccinated, diseases cannot spread. It's a defense against multiple infections. The problems we see include: in the United States, occurs when too few are vaccinated. Preventing the spread of infections and keeping infected will also reduce antibiotic use and thus prevent the development of antibiotic resistance. A global example: every day, about 400 children die of measles. It is not the measles themselves, but the secondary infections such as diarrhoea, pneumonia and meningitis that kill. It must therefore be a priority task to work for high levels of vaccine coverage in the population, both nationally and internationally. One argument that the vaccine opponents would like to put forward is that vaccination can cause undesirable side effects. But the risk of vaccines is not at all related to the diseases they protect against. Can anyone imagine living in a society where polio, chick cough, measles, tuberculosis and other diseases are spreading? I would argue that the movement that fights against vaccines is fighting for more infectious and fatal disease, more suffering in the population, greater pressure on health care and more use of antibiotics. The vaccination programme is such a central part of our prevention service that vaccination should ideally be a prerequisite for access. Vaccines could be the public health entry ticket. However, it would be immoral not to treat children because their parents make poor choices. There is therefore no good solution to the problem posed by vaccine opponents. But it is a paradox that while care failure can lead to parental withdrawal, it is quite possible to expose children to the risk of not being vaccinated. It is absurd that some Norwegian parents are running campaigns against vaccination, while Norway is contributing financially to more poor people in developing countries receiving the same vaccines. Ensuring a high level of openness about the vaccination programme is about trust, Community feeling, solidarity with the world around us. Force is therefore a bad tool. But we win if the vast majority who see the importance of vaccines are clear to those who work against the vaccines. We all have a responsibility here. Those who do not vaccinate their young help pathogens and viruses. To boycott the vaccine programme is not just a choice a taker on behalf of himself and his children, it affects all the inhabitants. In Norway, the uncertainty of parents and the fear of vaccines should not affect children’s right to health care. UNICEF believes that preventing children from being vaccinated is a violation of children’s rights. In a message from the WHO we can read that they have seen a negative trend, that more and more drops of vaccines are so-called philosophical. In the light of the alarming developments, the organisation has placed vaccine resistance on the list of what they consider to be the ten main threats to global health in 2019. Vaccination is the medical sacrament that corresponds to baptism," said Samuel Butler. Arguments of vaccine opponents must be strongly remedied. The alternative is that we all have to pay the price, with increased mortality and the emergence of diseases that are now almost eradicated in Norway. Then I repeat my question to the Minister of Public Health: what will she do to increase the level of vaccination and prevent vaccine opponents from becoming a major threat to public health?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3062	Vaccines are among the most important measures for good public health, and I would like to thank the representative of Stensland for putting the theme on the agenda of the Stortinget. In the Granavolden platform, the government emphasises that we should continue the work on a good start to the paediatric vaccination programme. We will also consider new measures to ensure this. Vaccines are a very effective form of disease prevention. Measles, red dogs, diphtheria and polio have almost been eradicated in Norway following the establishment of the paediatric vaccination programme. It's a paradox, but this success is probably one of the causes of the vaccine creation that exists in society – because when the diseases go away, the knowledge of them also disappears, and we risk forgetting how serious these diseases can be. I therefore share with the representative of Stensland the concern about global vaccine skepticism and the emergence of infectious diseases caused by this scepticism. Last year more than 82,000 Europeans were infected with measles, according to the European Office of the World Health Organisation. That's 3 times as many as the previous year and 15 times as many as in 2016. These are serious numbers, because measles are no harmless disease. Last year the disease killed 72 people in Europe. These are completely unnecessary deaths because we can effectively prevent measles with vaccines. Vaccines not only protect those who are vaccinated, but also the very few of us who, for various reasons, cannot take vaccines. This applies to some patients with severe immunodeficiency and also to the smallest of our children. When fewer people are vaccinated, it is especially the most vulnerable among us who are exposed. The World Health Organisation now mentions vaccine skepticism as one of the ten main threats to global health. Globally, vaccination can prevent between two million and three million deaths each year, and a further half a million deaths could be prevented every year if vaccination coverage had been even higher. This takes the government seriously. In Norway, the situation is better than in large parts of Europe and elsewhere in the world. One important reason is that we have good coverage in the paediatric vaccination programme, and vaccination coverage has been good over several years. In fact, the population has increased in recent years, according to the national vaccine register SYSVAK. I would like to point out four points that explain this and that we are going to continue to ensure good vaccination coverage. The four points are knowledge, trust, organisation and information. Let me take the first point. We must work to ensure that vaccine information and communication are knowledge-based. That is why we have commissioned the National Institute of Public Health to monitor attitudes towards vaccination in the different target groups. The Institute shall also analyse the risks and vulnerabilities of a weakening of the vaccination recommendations we have today and of the years to come. Such screening is relevant for all vaccination activities and for vaccination programmes involving different target groups. Knowledge of where target audiences collect information and what governs their decisions may form the basis for proposing and planning the necessary measures. A multidisciplinary approach involving the target groups will be important in this work. A more targeted information and communication work can be one of the actions. Strengthening the follow-up to vaccination coverage and ongoing efforts to follow-up on target attitudes may be other measures. We also want to facilitate an evaluation of the impact of the measures we are now going to take. Secondly, I believe that trust is a very important reason why we have such a high coverage in the paediatric vaccination programme here in the country. The population has great confidence in vaccines and in the recommendations of the authorities, and they have great confidence that health care professionals and other health professionals will ensure that the population receives the vaccines they need. I would like to stress that the Public Health Institute, the Health and School Health Service and also health professionals in other parts of the service are doing a formidable job to ensure continued high levels of vaccination coverage and that people have confidence in the need to vaccine themselves. So to the third point, good organisation of the vaccination offer. All children have the right to receive the vaccines in the pediatric vaccination programme, and all those who have been previously unvaccinated can accept the offer until the age of 20. In addition, parents have an obligation to contribute to health control for children, and then we are at the heart of the interpellant’s questions. Health centres have procedures for informing parents who do not want to be vaccinated and for following up children and parents who do not meet up to hours or constantly shift their schedule. Through the vaccination register SYSVAK, municipalities and cities receive twice a year a list of children and young people aged 2, 8 and 15 who have not been vaccinated according to recommended programmes. On the basis of these figures, healthcare can call for and follow up on the lack of vaccines in current legislation and practice. The fourth and last point to go on is about information. The Public Health Institute and Health Centres are systematically informing the population about the benefits of vaccination and also motivating parents to participate in the paediatric vaccination programme. Knowledge-based information is available in several languages both in health stations, in the school health service and on the Public Health Institute’s websites. Vaccination is – and must remain – a good thing for individuals and for public health. We have come very far with voluntary vaccination, and we have a good overview and a good system of the paediatric vaccination programme. I am sure that mandatory measures are not necessary, as the situation is today. The representative of Stensland has also shown that he does not support compulsory vaccination in the paediatric vaccination programme. But I, like the representative of Stensland, follow this development carefully – I think we are also obliged to – and regularly assess whether new measures need to be taken. Studies comparing vaccination coverage in European countries with countries with compulsory vaccination have been conducted. The study shows that there are no indications that compulsory vaccination provides better vaccination coverage. In the case of compulsory vaccination, those who do not want vaccines will be able to find means of escape. One example is California, where they removed the possibility of exemptions from vaccination on a personal basis. In retrospect, California has experienced an increase in the number of exemptions from vaccination on a medical basis. Although the situation in Norway is better than in many other countries, this shows that we can learn a lot from the experiences of other countries. Among other things, the EU has taken initiatives to strengthen European cooperation on vaccines and vaccination. A European Joint Action on vaccination shall include: analyse the current situation and consider possible measures against vaccine skepticism in Europe. We will do this together and on a broad front with the European countries. Norway has a very central role to play in this work, and we are leading several of the work packages that it has been decided to work with. I believe that we should continue to base our vaccination policy on knowledge, trust, good organisation and tailored and targeted information. Mandatory measures are not the way to go, as the situation is now, but we need to ensure more knowledge about the causes of vaccine skepticism and how we can cope with this scepticism. This work is well under way, and I can assure the interpellant that we will have constant attention to the work of maintaining a high degree of vaccination and preventing vaccine resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3094	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough answer. I fully agree that the compulsory vaccine is not the way to go, with one exception, and that is for health professionals. Health professionals are important premiscuous providers in these debates, and when health care professionals do not accept the vaccination programme, why should Norwegian patients accept it? There I believe that the government can be a little tougher, and there is also a majority in the Grand Duchy. At least the last time I checked, the majority of the parties agreed with me that there is a basis for claiming vaccination, i.e. the paediatric vaccination programme, for health care workers. One also needs permission for those who are health care managers, so that they can obtain the status of their employees. I would not have accepted it if a nurse who was infected with measles was to care for my sick child – I don't think anyone had. There we have to be absolutely certain in public health, so there is some disagreement between the undersigned and the Council of State. With regard to the other measures she points to, I fully agree, but I want a few things on the way, as said, compulsory vaccination of health professionals and permission to get a status report. In addition, in the state budget, we have opened up the possibility that a person can claim influenza vaccine directly in a pharmacy, that someone will not walk around a doctor’s office to get hold of it. There are also majority comments on the state budget that I hope can be followed up. It is now about adult vaccination programmes in the government platform. It's important. Many think they're protected by what they got when they went to school, but it's not always like that. It is a work that I see with joy to get started. I'm also glad we got the HPV vaccination of boys in place. I know it's cost a lot of money, and it's going to be part of the big priority, but I would like, if I were completely free, to get the HPV vaccine recovery program for boys, as we did for the girls a few years ago. Trust is essential for the completion of the vaccination programme. Trust is essential because people want to go to a health center, doctor — wherever they have to go — and get stuck in their arms to avoid getting sick. If that trust is broken, there's no reason for it to go. Many of those who oppose vaccination are involved in a conspiracy, that this is the great state that is doing an assault on the population. It is then clear that coercive measures are not the way to go — that will only help to strengthen this conspiracy idea. That is why I am very pleased with the basic attitude of the Council of State, namely that trust-based and knowledge-based policies should apply. We don't have to go further than to Italy, where there were political parties that used the vaccination case, and that pointed to vaccines as a state attack on the individual. We must not come to Norway with yours.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3109	I thought I would make a small summary related to what the representative mentioned. Now some new moments were brought in that are not directly related to the first posts of the interpellant, including the interpellant. against health professionals and compulsory vaccines, where we have started a good job of monitoring health professionals, so that, as it stands today, they have an opportunity to move, and we are also doing other interventions. I think it's a good start, and then we have to see where we land, to see if this should be made mandatory. It's not like we're completely disagreeable, but I've started at one end to get enough knowledge, to see what should be done. We also have, as was correctly said here, on the platform a point relating to the adult vaccine programme. It's very important, not least against the vaccination of our new compatriots, who very often don't have a basic vaccination in place. So this with HPV: Now it's mandatory for boys – when they get in the seventh grade – that they also get the vaccine. But this is being evaluated. I hear that the interpellant is concerned about all of these who choose not to vaccinate their children, and that you can look at different measures in that context. I am, as I said, sure that mandatory measures are not necessary, as the interpellant also says, so I believe that sanctions in this case are not the way to go. We need to work to maintain the confidence of the population in vaccines, to ensure the continued good organisation of the vaccine supply and to provide knowledge-based and trust-based information. There are various reasons why children are not vaccinated, including: frequent movements and stays abroad. Children who move frequently and children of parents with poor Norwegian knowledge or low social networks are at risk of falling out of the health centre’s activities. The second reason is illness. But this is a small group – a maximum of 1 to 2 pst. of the children in each year's coal are not vaccinated because of the underlying disease. The third group is the one that we may have mentioned most here, children of parents who do not want children to be vaccinated. Several parents will make a reservation when media attention is paid to serious adverse reactions following vaccination. This may lead to reduced vaccination coverage during periods of months and years. In addition, organised anti-vaccine movements provide information that often contains both misunderstandings and perhaps deliberate misinterpretations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3126	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for raising this important question. We in the Workers' Party largely agree with the interpellant on the challenges outlined, and also on the solutions that lie there, that organisation, information and trust – as supported by the Council of State – must be based. The working party has also stated that a collection programme with HPV vaccines for boys should be in place. As it is today, it's great that boys get this opportunity through the pediatric vaccination program, but in the name of equality, it should really be lacking that boys now have an opportunity to pick up in the same way that girls have had. The children’s vaccination programme is a right for all children – universal and independent of residence and the socio-economic background of parents; it’s great. As we've heard so far, there's a huge and broad political uprising around the baby vaccination program; it's great. We also see it in the numbers: many people choose to vaccinate their children. But as it has been stressed, there are movements around us and in other countries in Europe. It is paradoxical that when diseases disappear as a result of good vaccination programmes, the motivation for using them through vaccination also disappears. According to WHO – as has been pointed out here – measles are in strong growth in Europe. When parents say no, it's what the interpellant has stressed, so that our flock protection is reduced. But after listening to the debate, I hear it's more of the same. I call for new measures and new ways to obtain more information on how to strengthen the paediatric vaccination programme when we see the movements and campaigns around Europe. I lack political power in this debate, and I lack motivation to be able to do something new. There are not many weeks since we in this room considered a document 8 proposal from the Workers' Party to enable municipalities to introduce a compulsory trial project with vaccination of children. By means of a mandatory convocation, I think we could put in place new information – through the trial project – that could be useful in the paediatric vaccination programme. We know that there is a high degree of vaccination in Norway, but also pockets where we are far away from where we should be. In the municipality of Oslo, we know that the degree of vaccination varies between the districts. In 2016, the vaccination coverage of 16-year-olds was 94 pst. in one part of the city and 77 pst. in another. At the same time, we know that the Institute of Public Health says we need to have a vaccination rate of 95 pst. in order to have adequate flock protection. The growth rate is too low in some places. There are pockets, there are environments, and there are some urban areas where it's not high enough. I fully support the inter-pellant and the Council of State that we need to build trust in information, and we need to have a good organisation. But I also believe that we need to be politically open to looking at trial projects, new methods and new solutions in order to obtain more information. In order to prevent and reduce the inequality in the degree of vaccination, the Labour Party has proposed that test projects with mandatory convocation should be made possible. We also fully follow the Council of State and the interpellant that compulsory vaccination should not be an alternative. However, it should be possible to make it mandatory to convene, just to give an extra incentive to these parents who choose not to attend the health centre. As it has been taken up here, the scepticism of vaccines is growing in several countries around us. WHO was well on track with the goal of eradicating measles in Europe by 2010, as they managed with cups by 1979. Due to the spread of false research — anti-vaccine propaganda — vaccine trends reversed in 2009. It should be in our common interest that we look at trial projects and new opportunities and get more information, at the best of our children, just to get the baby vaccination program in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3147	Thank you to the interpellant, who has raised a debate which is unfortunately topical. Thus, vaccine resistance is distrusted against the artificial immunization of human beings, and reads a medical history, this is nothing new. It has been in existence since the first vaccine. Experts today say that the vaccine has been a victim of its own success by the fact that later generations do not know or think of the situation that existed before we had effective vaccination programmes. Several have said that the World Health Organization has now defined vaccine resistance as one of the ten major health threats in the world. It makes one of us wake up. They also claim that vaccine is one of the most cost-effective measures against disease and that vaccines prevent between two and three million deaths per year. If the vaccine coverage had risen globally, more than half a million deaths in the year could be pre-population. Measles have increased by 30 pst. on a world-wide basis. Fortunately, we are not there in Norway today. The Norwegian National Institute for Public Health is concerned, but states that the vaccine coverage in Norway is still good. We can talk a lot here, but when we're talking about vaccine resistance in itself -- that's for no reason, but scepticism about vaccine -- I think the Institute of Public Health has some very simple, but good advice on how to prevent it. That's four points. They say: One should listen for the questions asked. One should take the concerns seriously. Our health centre needs to be able to provide professionally informed and accurate information. We must inform ourselves about the risks of vaccines, because they exist, but one must also inform us about the risks of disease. At least it exists. Fear is not appropriate. This must be done in a trusting way. One needs to be up-to-date in the healthcare system in meeting these, so that we have enough knowledge to answer parents' questions, preferably enough knowledge to recognize the background for questions and enough knowledge to meet a lot of people from the Internet. I have great faith in them. I do not believe that there are mandatory measures to be taken. We had a debate in this room a few weeks ago when the Workers' Party suggested that one introduce something they called compulsory vaccination. I have not yet understood what it really meant, but the Country Group of Health Sisters was clarifyingly clear in its hearing that introducing mandatory vaccination is contrary to what is the place of both health and school health services today, i.e. a voluntary offer based on trust. Introducing something mandatory would violate this voluntary principle and the principle that health care should be consent-based. The Labour Party also suggested that sanctions should be attached to this, but it must never be the case in Norway that we link health care to sanctions. I am pleased that the Council of State is aware of this today. We don't know how lucky we are in Norway that have vaccines available. I said in the debate we had a few weeks ago, that I had measles myself when I was not good enough – I'm so old that that time everyone had it. I think I was very bad. I'm very happy that my kids get the vaccine, that they drop the disease, that there's good babysitting coverage in Norway, and that parents largely follow up on what's the public babysitting program. We have to talk about that. Then one must take those who are concerned about this, seriously, meet them with knowledge and take the fear seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3173	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important topic in the interpellation. I very much agree with most of what the interpellant said, and also what the representative from the Central Party, Kjersti Toppe, said. I want to stay a little bit at what she started with, that the success of vaccines may be the biggest problem. I'm well among the oldest in the hall here -- maybe next to the president -- and at that time, in the 1950s and right after the war, there were many who had very frightening experiences with disease and infectious diseases. In addition, there was experience that antibiotics were not exactly adapted and functioned so well, and that they might not even be there. It was enough vaccine resistance then, too, it existed enough, but I think the vast majority then was very happy that the vaccination programs came, and looked at it with great joy and relief. I agree that this with mandatory problems has a lot of problems, and I understand all those arguments. At the same time, this is a child's right, and the rights that a child has sometimes conflict with the freedoms that you want. That makes it more difficult for the health service to think that more people are reaching by the method you are using now. But obviously more action is needed, and then information is one of them. It's enough in the first place to reach the group that's falling out, that's going a little bit out of the country, and that's not getting caught up in the system for different reasons. The group of vaccine opponents I'm probably a little more uncertain about how easy it is to reach, but it may be possible to reach the children when they get to school sea – that they can want this. For the first group, I think it's very important that we also get more information that it's not just about not getting measles or polio – which was definitely present in my childhood – it's also about that if more people get this and you use antibiotics even more, we're even more likely to get more antibiotic-resistant vectors. In the next round, it will frame all medical treatment and make the situation quite serious and critically different from what it is today. We are struggling enough to limit the use of antibiotics in the treatment we have today, if you don't want to increase their use even more – because it occurs in these situations because the diseases we are now vaccinated against are diseases that are quite serious, as the representative Toppe said. I was also of those who had measles, and it was quite serious. There was no joke. And more of these other diseases that we're vaccinating against are even more serious. So I think it's important for more people to get the information about the scope of this. I also think there are actually a lot of people who know that there are some people who don't tolerate the vaccine, and that they will be extremely vulnerable to disease if the majority sees this a little bit lightly. If the level of vaccination in society falls, it will affect the few who cannot be vaccinated for other and health reasons. There's a risk that I think you should at least have the opportunity to think that you're contributing to if you don't want to vaccinate your children. I have great faith in information to the group that falls out of a little bit of diffuse causes. As far as vaccine opponents are concerned, I'm probably a little bit more in doubt, but I think the authorities' information on social channels can be important, because at least you have to hope that there might be someone around here who's catching this up and can help these children also get their rights, namely being vaccinated and getting rid of these diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3188	Thank you for a nice debate. We could almost call it a 'round' – we might agree. Maybe that's the problem, that we've become the compact majority, and then there's someone who doesn't entirely believe in us, and who makes up the small percentage of vaccine opponents we have. I've been a lot in the media for vaccines, and once I was quite frustrated, I was recommended by a party colleague to see a documentary on Netflix called Earth is flat. I'll recommend everyone to see it. It is about the so-called "flat-earthers", which claim that the earth is flat. They have some common features with some people who think things that might go across science, that is, conspiracy theorists. There are some mechanisms in this that make that whatever you make of arguments, it's used to substantiate the conspiracy. It's okay to mean what you want, it's okay to think that the earth is flat, but it's not allowed to put its own and others' children at risk. That's why vaccine opponents are dangerous, unlike those who think the earth is flat, it's something completely different. But these are the same mechanisms. The Dunning–Kruger effect on cognitive bias, which means that those who are incompetent will have little insight into their own incompetence, is much mentioned in that documentary. We'll see about that. There was one post here that there was some disagreement around, and it was related to the Workers' Party's proposal for mandatory convocation. Like Kjersti Toppe, I have trouble understanding what it is. We had a good debate on it, and the health sisters also warn against it. I also know that there is disagreement within the Labour Party about this. Health care professionals and health centres have all the tools they need to call those who don't meet. So we don't have to make symbol politics out of this. In the case of action, a part has been done in the field of vaccines. I need to tell you when you are being attacked for lack of action. In recent years, HPV vaccines have been introduced for boys and girls in terms of HPV, and it has been opened for one to place influenza vaccines in the pharmacy. In addition, in winter, in the context of seasonal flu, there are some health establishments that have more than doubled the number of doses of influenza vaccines. So there's a lot of good going on in this area. We have to take with us that there is one leading global politician who has gone into the brink of the vaccine opponents, and it's Donald Trump, who thinks Mr. Andrew Wakefield is an excellent guy. We just get to say that we at least disagree with Trump in it, if not in everything. We don't have to substantiate terrible research that is really the starting point for too much of the anti-vaccine debate: Wakefield's unfortunate research on the triple vaccine, where he claimed there was a connection between autism and the triple vaccine, which is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3203	Now I'm not going to repeat my post, where I really summed up some of both what we've done and what we're doing. We want to identify attitudes in different target groups, we want to analyse the risks and vulnerabilities of further weakening, we're on the precautionary track, we're monitoring where the different groups are picking up their information, and we're also monitoring what it is that governs the decisions. We'll have to target the measures based on what we figure out. Then it becomes a little unreasonable when the Workers' Party's representative, Björnebeck-Waagen, launches the well-known proposal of the Workers' Party for mandatory convocation as the good and the best. It's said a little bit eaten, I'm fully aware of it, because we've had that debate, but it sounds a little thin. The last new thing, which I think is a little bit interesting, is all that's happening online. We all live through the web. The latter applies, inter alia, to: YouTube, that when one is on digital platforms like YouTube, one should not be able to link references through the web to special vaccine propaganda out there. So something happens, and it happens exactly on the basis that we who are sitting in the hall are busy. Then I thought in the spirit of public information that I should mention a few points that relate to what is the reason parents don't want to vaccinate their children. And what's in the Public Health Institute's vaccination counsellor? I think it's important to keep it a little bit in the spinal cord. One is anxiety about the side effects and doubts about the long-term effects of vaccines. Vaccination is considered to be a higher risk than the diseases against which it is vaccinated. Disease statistics are not expected to represent the average population or to apply to own children. Avoidance is preferred to active action – believe that even in a healthy lifestyle, it can prevent children from being infected and prevent complications if they are infected, believe that flock protection is sufficient, distrust of authorities and perceptions of public health as opposed to the welfare of the individual. There may be disinformation, misunderstandings and horror stories about vaccination and that health professionals can provide vague, deficient and poor information about the disease risk. This I think it's important to bring with me when we're now discussing this, and we're taking the next round with us why parents are going to the step not to vaccinate their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3216	The debate on substance is closed. So 10 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3232	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3245	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3283	Case No. 2, the foreign policy statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3292	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a case concerning the signing of the Treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the participation of the Government as an observer in the meetings of the States Parties to the Treaty.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a new investigation with a broad consultation round in which all aspects of the case can be fully elucidated.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3328	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3464	The second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 24 shall be deleted. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3479	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3489	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3499	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3508	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Bengt Fasteraune on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasteraune on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a view to improving the framework conditions for commercial bus transport.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3541	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose the introduction of a scheme to compensate bus companies for social discounts on express bus routes [[reduction for children, students, pensioners, dependants, etc.]] The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3564	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for advanced road pricing in areas where there are good alternatives to private cars.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3593	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and plan the introduction of satellite road pricing in Norway to replace the current tolling system.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3610	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for unearned road pricing to compensate for current tolls and other operating car charges.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3634	The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3652	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to take action and, where appropriate, to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure the right to full objection in the proceedings for appeal in the Foreign Office.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the necessary measures and changes in the rules to ensure that a significantly larger number of persons are given the opportunity to explain themselves orally through proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Department.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3685	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a review of the appeal procedure in the field of aliens with the expectation that this implies better legal certainty for asylum seekers, including the increased use of counter-dictation and orality in the appeal procedure.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3714	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3733	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3749	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Geir Inge Lien on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 5-8, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will state that proposal No. 4 were drawn during the debate. There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different measures to ensure mental health protection for mentally ill convicted offenders, such as the use of accomplices. Section 459 of the Criminal Procedures Act.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3783	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that serious mental illness is not placed on a single room or security cell because of unrest, violent detachment, self-harm, suicide risk or attempted suicide while in the custody of criminal services.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the regulations, practices and necessary resource use in order to avoid decisions on the isolation of mentally ill people.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for safe solutions to ensure that all convictions taken out of the community due to a serious mental illness are immediately submitted to a medical examination and requested to be admitted to mental health protection if necessary.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3812	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2019, the government is asked to draw up an action plan to strengthen the capacity to follow up serious mentally ill prisoners in both criminal and mental health care. The action plan must contain: An objective to reduce the use of isolation in prison and that serious mental illness should not be isolated in solitary or security cells in Norwegian prisons unless specific reasons in the emergency situation of the prisoner speak for it and that the use of long-term isolation must cease. Ensure that serious mental illness in prison is offered to other well-suited services and health care in the same way as others. One way to ensure that all prisoners in Norwegian prisons can be provided with appropriate mental health protection and care through the use of ‘enhanced Community department’, without imposing a requirement that all prisons have to have a separate department. Strengthening and developing the resource teams in criminal care. Calculation of the economic impact on criminal justice and mental health protection in order to provide the plan with the necessary budgetary follow-up. Adequate training of criminal officers to implement the action plan.’ The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3848	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up an action plan on criminal law in order to ensure the sound management of serious mentally ill offenders and to avoid isolation. The action plan must contain: Adequate training of staff in criminal services to implement the action plan. Strengthening and developing the resource teams in criminal care. Measures to ensure that criminal services can provide appropriate mental health protection and care through the use of ‘enhanced Community department’. Measures to ensure criminal convictions taken jointly because of serious mental illness, medical examination of a doctor within one day to seek prompt admission to mental health protection, if necessary. A calculation of the economic impact on criminal law so that the plan can be followed up as necessary.’.» The centre party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3884	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a stepping-up plan to strengthen the capacity to deal with serious psychiatric offenders in psychiatry and to strengthen treatment provision in prisons.’ The centre party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3909	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3923	In Case No. 10 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e3933	Case No. 11 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the law decision 42. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-05.ana.ud222e4009	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? It doesn't look like this. - The meeting's been cancelled.
