ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e73	The representative Tuva Moflag, who has been licensed, has taken the seat again. The following shall now be called up by the alternates: For the Province of Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm For the Nordic counties: Kjell-Idar Juvik and Rita Lekang For Telemark County: Olav Urbø From the first deputy of Akershus County, Sheida Sangtarash, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Nicholas Wilkinson from 19 November until further notice, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be processed immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Akershus County, Torleif Hamre, are called in to meet during the leave period from 19 November until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e122	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e127	Soon the winter will come, soon it will come cold, nice time and hopefully many beautiful ski tours. But with the winter and the skis and the competitions, the pollutant fluorine also sneaks into some of the paints. That is why, on behalf of the representatives of Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård, Mona Fagerås, Petter Eide and myself – and all the ski enthusiasts – I would like to put forward a proposal to ban the use of fluorine walls at all sporting events in Norway, national as international, for young people as for the elderly. With that, I wish the President many beautiful, non-toxic ski tours for the winter!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e134	The proposal is managed in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e152	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, six series of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Torstein Tvedt Solberg, on behalf of the spokesman for the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e161	I take the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Ms Sandberg, from the Labour Party, who unfortunately did not have the opportunity to be here today. The Training Act requires all school owners to provide appropriate training adapted to the individual student. Adapted training is one of the key principles of the common school. The requirement shall ensure optimal benefit for all children from the training. The adaptation is essential to ensure equal opportunities and equivalency for all pupils and apprentices. Therefore, Dyslexi Norway’s work on dyslexic schools is important, and it is based on a desire to shift focus from all that is difficult to what works. Together, pupils, parents and professionals have developed criteria for dyslexic schools, which are about systematic efforts at pupils through, for example, the use of drugs. anchoring in school management, plans for skills enhancement, good educational materials, a good learning environment, monitoring and follow-up procedures, organisation of tests and good school-home cooperation. In the Workers' Party, we consider this to be the work that has been done and not least a work that works. Dyslexive schools have good systems for following up all students with difficulties. Systematic work for no one to fall from will benefit all students, and therefore, in consultation with Dyslexi Norway, we are now proposing that this proposal for a representative be extended to include specific language difficulties. A more systematic effort is needed to enable all schools to have competence, method, systematics and resources to capture pupils with dyslexia, dyscalculia and specific language difficulties. We believe it is time to act. Therefore, it is also a little disappointing that the Right will vote against the proposal today. As late as the 2017 election campaign, the Right ran its own campaign around Norway for dyslexic schools. There was a look-up in e.g. Lindesnes, Oslo, Inner Fozen, Sola and Fredrikstad. In the same election campaign, the Right Oslo municipality criticized the fact that there are “astoundingly assuming that there are only 5 schools in Oslo today certified as dyslexic”. One might then ask himself, "What's the point when the Right Party and the other government parties are going to go against our proposal today?" We from the Workers' Party agree with the Right election campaign statement that a dyslexic school is a good school where all students experience knowledge and mastery, not defeat. We had seen to it that the Right in Government followed up its own election campaign, and we had hoped that they would vote for the proposal today, which had made sure that more students experienced knowledge and mastering. Unfortunately, they don't. With this, I address the proposal that the Workers' Party has together with others in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e178	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e183	Right wants all schools to be dyslexic and dyscal. The goal must be clear: all children must feel mastering and learning joys from kindergarten and throughout the education cycle. We must have reinforced early efforts, adapted education for all children and work targeted in municipalities and counties in order to create the best possible growth for our children. It is therefore very easy to be in favour of the proposal for a representative to be discussed today. At the same time, let's not forget that schools don't become dyslexic and dyscal just because you decide they should be. Working outside school owners, pressure from school management, cooperation in professional communities at schools and systematic work are some of the answers. How this will and can be solved will depend on local resources. Developing a time-table, as the proposers want, is hardly a good time-use to help our schools improve. True medicine, I think, is more likely to be found in the recently submitted Storingsmeldung Tætt on – early effort and inclusive community. Here we find a number of measures that will help us get a school day and growth policy that will provide the basis for more people to feel mastery and not least to enjoy learning, in interaction with municipalities. It is also important to stress that good work is done in many schools already today — and not least stress that all schools and school owners are obliged to ensure that students with reading, math and writing difficulties receive appropriate education. At the same time, it is important to mention that the diagnosis of dyslexia or dyscalculia is not necessary in order to adapt education and that schools should not be dyslexia and dyscalulative in order to comply with the training law. It is the school owner and teacher responsible for adapting education, and students are entitled to special education and expert judgement through the PP service, if the adapted education and training does not provide sufficient benefits for the students. The right and government parties are systematically working on schooling, and in particular on early work and organised education. One of the first things to do when we took up the government offices was to reintroduce the free PC system to students who had dyslexia, after the red-greens removed this offer during their period. In recent years, we have delivered historical efforts, with everything from several teachers, master and further education, skills requirements and a number of other measures. The right supports that all municipalities and schools should take responsibility for good quality and training for all pupils, without the government deciding how this should be done in each school. At the same time, we are facilitating that all schools be able to carry out such a promise. That is what we see in the big message, and I look forward to dealing with it here in the Chamber in order to continue the important and not least good work that we are doing to lift all schools in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e200	All school owners are required to provide appropriate training for all student groups. It is clearly stated in the Training Act, and in this way all schools in Norway are obliged to be dyslexic and dyscal. We know that the most important thing for students' learning is a good teacher. The Progress Party is therefore pleased with the efforts we have had on teachers over the years we have been in government, and the systematic efforts to identify and disseminate good learning practices through continuing education. The aim must be that all teachers can help children and students to go to dyslexic and dyscal schools, so that more students can complete their education in the best possible way. We're changing special education, as the representative Gudmundsen said, and we've submitted a message that we're going to deal with in this session. It is primarily about ensuring that special education meets the students it is going to meet. It is about ensuring that the person providing special education has sufficient competence. According to the Children's Ombudsman, 50 pst. of special education given by teachers without sufficient qualifications, and it is unsustainable that those who need the most help are taught by temporary workers and unskilled workers. It is also about preventing special education from becoming an additional burden for the student. We are committed to strengthening early efforts throughout kindergarten and school. All schools and kindergartens shall have special pedagogical competence. Children at risk of language difficulties must be identified as early as possible. They must receive the necessary follow-up and be closely integrated into the pedagogical offerings of the nursery. We should move the help closer to the children by transferring resources from the state educational support system to increased competence in municipalities and counties. Those with the best specialised pedagogical competence shall leave the office and enter kindergartens and classrooms. Nor should we forget the importance of new technology as a tool in both kindergarten and school. The re-introduction of support for computer equipment for students with reading and writing difficulties from the autumn of 2014 was an important contribution. In recent years, the Edtech industry has increasingly contributed to products that are good aids, especially for those students who have difficulty reading, writing and calculating. The Progress Party will also underline the importance of further work by the government to facilitate access for school owners, school leaders and teachers to the entire toolbox with tools to provide students with good basic skills. I would also like to remind you of the responsibility of the school owners. The government has increased the free resources of municipalities, and it is therefore important that they give local priority to schools and provide them with the means to provide all appropriate training under the Training Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e217	The school shall have room for all students. Teachers must have the tools and means to make the frameworks for learning and development safe. We think dyslexic and dyscal schools are such a tool. One out of five goes out of school with general reading difficulties and general math problems, one out of twenty has special reading and writing problems, called dyslexia, and one out of twenty has specific math problems, called dyscalculia. Half of those outside the labour force have difficulty reading. At the same time, there is reason to believe that there are more than those that are being uncovered today. The school has to be able to catch these and help them get the skills needed to get a job and get a good life. For many children, it is important that the school work systematically with the basic skills and early efforts and in this way exposes and succeeds the students who need extra help or instruction. For many children, varied education and adapted training are important. A systematic effort to follow-up students for more motivation and mastering than terping and testing is important. Now that new curriculums for the entire educational cycle and the learning message of early intervention have been presented, it is appropriate to look at the support system around the students and teachers. Professional renewal shall make the content of the school more relevant to future challenges, combined with the focus on the five basic skills of reading, writing, billing, oral and digital skills. Measuring of basic skills is contrary to dyslexia or dyscalculia. We have to have room for everyone. As the representative of Gudmundsen from the Right says, it does not hold to adopt this; political ambitions must be put in place. We look forward to further debate related to the EEAA on early action. The government's objectives seem to be in line with the Stortinget, but the instruments of the position are different from those of the opposition. The Centre Party will have concrete proposals and a timetable for all schools to become dyslexic with a focus on specific learning difficulties, so that all students get the right help. The center party will always work to lift students' skills, both practical and theoretical.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e230	All children should thrive and learn a lot at school. Then more teachers are needed, and they have to have time to follow up on each individual student. The children need healthy food and more time to move. That's good for learning, and that's good for health. Children learn in different ways, and teachers must have time and opportunity to follow up. Learning basic skills such as reading and writing is important for working in modern society. Poor basic skills in reading, but also in writing, billing and language, are very exclusive to participation and social participation and to be able to complete secondary education and take higher education. It is one of the greatest societal challenges of our time, and action must be taken already in school. About 5 pst. of the student mass has dyslexia, which is a specific difficulty. Dyslexia Norway has been working for 14 years to certify dyslexia schools which, according to established criteria, meet the requirements. There are now over 100 schools called dyslexic. In the problem of dyscalculi, no similar work has been done, but there is now work on having revised criteria where dyscalculi and specific language difficulties are also involved. This work has started, but work on more research and development needs to be started in order to systematise work on dyscalculi as well. The competence of teachers in dyslexia varies greatly. For example, the subjects of reading and writing difficulties are the subject of teacher training. There are students with such challenges in all classrooms, and then it's a problem that not all teachers know anything about how to meet these students. In very many fields, more systematic work is needed to enable all schools to become dyscalculi- and dyslexic. It's time for it to be traded on this. Therefore, it is very disappointing that we could not get a total increase in support of this proposal from SV. I really don't understand why. Last Friday, the Minister of Knowledge spent the whole day on being in all the country's media and proclaiming that it was to be put on early work closely. All the fine words in the big message make no sense when the same government parties today do not want to take part in this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e245	We in the Christian People's Party are positive to the intention behind this proposal for a representative. It is important that we focus on our expectations of the schools of political groups, and it is important to facilitate the proper participation of children with dyslexia in education and to be part of the professional community at their school. Schools already have a responsibility to ensure that they have the skills to adapt to the needs of pupils with difficulty in reading and writing, language difficulties and maths, by adapting training for all students. One of the main challenges for getting this done has been that there are too many students per teacher. We in the Christian People's Party have made many thoughts about dyslexia and dyscalculia, and we fell to a different conclusion than the one contained in the proposal we are discussing today. We thought about this at the time we decided to bet on a new minimum teacher standard in school. We made an overall assessment of what a teacher's norm would have an effect on, among other things. reading and writing training. Research shows that students succeed better in schools where they feel seen, valued, and get good mastery experiences. Fewer students per teacher imply better prerequisites for the teacher to see and understand the needs of students. In addition, of course, they need to have knowledge of good practice in order to help students achieve their school goals. Such an approach is, as we see it, part of facilitating dyslexic practices. We can understand the impatience of the proposers on behalf of the students who are struggling with dyslexia and dyscalculia. But the government parties have made their priority. We don't get 16.4 students per teacher in ordinary primary school without any clear priorities. Because there are now fewer students per teacher than at any other time in the last ten years, and I'm glad that we've got this together with the other government parties. This government has focused on more teachers in school and higher teacher density because it provides better conditions for adapted training while reducing the need for special education. In addition, a new big message, focused on early efforts and how we build teams around the student and contribute to inclusion in the professional and social community has been presented. In addition, adapted education will be underlined in the forthcoming reform of skills and in the renewal of the profession. We pride ourselves on dyslexic practices, but believe that this will be done for the future with the measures the government is taking today and is planning for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e260	The government wants all children to have a good and inclusive school offer, and that they should thrive, learn and develop at school. The aim is for all students to master basic skills well when they leave primary school and develop them further through secondary education. It is positive that schools choose to be certified as dyslexic and dyscal schools. These schools systematically follow up students with learning difficulties, and can be good examples for others. But it's not a goal that all schools should work exactly the same way or with the same program. It is vital that schools work systematically with the basic skills and early efforts of all students. Many students who struggle with reading, writing and billing are getting help too late, and often the help is not good enough. The government has already put in place many measures to help adapt training for students. The government has, among other things: introduced an obligation for schools to provide intensive training for 1–4 pupils. steps that are at risk of being suspended for billing, reading and writing. We are engaged in a historical effort to further education of teachers in school, where Norwegian and mathematics are among the priority subjects. In the Annual Report on Early Efforts and Inclusive Communitys in Kindergarten, School and SFO, we warn. that the government will look at the intensive training for 1–4. Steps shall be extended to several stages, and we will introduce teacher specialists in initial training in all schools by 2025 – that everyone should have access to a teacher specialist – and an obligation for municipalities to assess all children’s Norwegian skills before school starts. One of the most important steps in the notification is a historical competence effort in the field of special educational support and inclusive education. The objective is to increase competence and improve training for pupils with special needs and to better adapt their education in all municipalities. Through the initiative, we'll make sure that the competence gets closer to the students. Yesterday we presented the new curricula. The five basic skills – reading, writing, billing, verbal and digital skills – have been continued and made clearer. Professional renewal should ensure that all students learn more and learn better. The government will facilitate all schools in all the municipalities of the country to work systematically to develop a good offer for all students. At the same time, municipalities and schools have to take responsibility for the quality of training for all pupils without the State deciding how to do so in each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e273	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e279	Once again great ambitions and many praises, and we also know of the government's work so far that there are many selections, strategies and promotions. In the letter of reply, the Council of State also states very clearly that the goal of the government is that all schools in all the municipalities of the country must work systematically for a good training offer for all students. Today, the Central Party is presenting its alternative state budget, where we are presenting billions more than what the government is doing, just to the municipalities and states, in order to be able to follow up these laws with action. How does the government feel about providing municipalities and counties with the ability to follow up on these big ambitions when they do not provide more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e286	The municipalities get more money, and there is a good municipal economy under this government. I fully agree that we have great objectives, but we also have concrete action. I believe that it is important that we now carry out an assessment of all children’s Norwegian skills in good time before they start school, because it is important that students receive early help and support in language development. It is essential that we have an obligation to provide intensive learning in reading, writing and billing for students who are going to be following. It is important that we make clear in the curricula the emphasis on basic skills. The effort we are now making in continuing education, both in Norwegian and in mathematics, is absolutely crucial, and also the effort we are going to make in special education. We have to make sure that the competence is moved from meeting room to classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e297	I must admit that my patience with this is over. So here we let kids meet a school that we know doesn't have systematics or competence on one of the problems that make a lot of these out of school, and also out of work afterwards. One of the people who has this is right here, but there's been a lot worse with many of the others. This is about creating a timetable to ensure that students who have these problems, specifically, receive the training they are entitled to. So I wonder, how long does the Council of State think it's going to go before students with dyslexia or dyscalculia meet a school that is practically dyslexic and has teachers who know anything about these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e306	My patience is over a long time ago. This is the background for concrete action by the government. It is very nice that SV wants a timetable, but we are taking concrete action. I pointed out some of them in the previous line change, among other things. that students’ Norwegian skills are assessed before they begin school. It's important. It is important that we have an obligation to provide intensive training, and the training we undertake is also crucial. In fact, the training of teachers in the current year was strongly cut. We are stepping up our efforts, especially in the field of special education, and we are ensuring that teachers receive good further training. We simply have to make sure that the competence is where the children are. It has to be tight, in the sandbox, in the classroom, and help support and help the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e315	That's exactly what this proposal is about, and that's exactly what the Council of State and the majority of the population are now saying no to: having that system in place, throughout the system, and ensuring a timetable so that we know that it's implemented, and implemented, throughout the system. I'm talking to a lot of kids, and if you ask them when they're six years old what they're going to be when they start school, everyone says they're going to learn to read and write. It's pretty bad that we allow you to meet a school that doesn't have these skills and systems in place, and it won't be with the government's proposals either. So my question to the Council of State is: why is the freedom to train teachers who don't know anything about reading and writing difficulties – that is, it's an electoral profession – and the freedom of the municipalities not to have this system in place, more important than that the students who have these learning difficulties actually meet a school that can help them with the problems they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e324	I totally disagree that the bulk of the population now refuses to work systematically on this – on the contrary. It is after we got a civil government that we have started working systematically on these issues, precisely by ensuring that the competence is close. Greater emphasis is now placed on initial training also in teacher training. I hope SV will support the government's proposal that all municipalities should have access to teacher specialists in initial training by 2025 – preferably before, if possible. We're also going to give the school a follow-up duty, where you can, among other things. shall follow-up students who are away from school. Too often, we see that these challenges are linked: that students who have small challenges that are allowed to grow large also get higher absenteeism. We want a school that is close to the students, that follows up the students, whether they have professional or social challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e335	Teachers' skills in dyslexia vary greatly. For example, subjects such as reading and writing difficulties are only a choice in teacher training. There are students with such challenges in all classrooms, and then it should also be that all teachers had competence in how to meet these students. In addition, we know that in the introduction of master’s training in teacher training, the field of education has not been strengthened. Does the Minister have any thoughts on how to strengthen the pedagogical profession in this part of teacher training, and specifically: How will he strengthen the special pedagogical competence of teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e342	Now the representative is aware that what she is asking questions is under the auspices of another State Council. But in the big news, we're going to talk about how we're going to strengthen the special pedagogical competence. It's a problem in today's school that many of the students who have the biggest challenges get their training of assistants. We're going to tighten up the law, clarify the law, so that it becomes clearer what kind of competence students are going to meet, especially those students who have special challenges. I think this is one of the most important things we do, by helping students who are struggling, whether professional or social, also meet teachers with relevant skills. We have a plan for this, we explain this in the Storing Message Tightly, and we also take action by clarifying the responsibility between Statped and the PP service locally. This will help students get closer follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e351	This government has spent billions of dollars on continuing training for already qualified teachers in Norwegian, English and math. I think there would be a greater need to use some of these billions to re-train and re-train teachers in the special field of education. How does the Minister see that more teachers are to be trained in special education and pedagogics?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e358	This is explained in the Annual Report Closely, where we take important steps to strengthen the competence of municipalities and counties, in kindergartens and schools. We make clear the division of responsibilities so that Statped is given a clearer and narrower mandate, and it releases resources to be used locally for the enhancement of competences. We have to remember that already today it is the responsibility of municipalities and states, but the reality is that the competence is often too far away, and that it is too random what kind of competence the students meet. That's why we're sketching what's going to be a historic boost to special education skills, so that those students who are struggling, whether they are in kindergarten or in school, can meet teachers with the relevant skills. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e365	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e371	Earlier this year I was visiting Søvik School in Haram Municipality, and I was very impressed by the work they and other schools in the municipality do to help children with reading and writing problems. 9 out of 13 dyslexic schools in More and Romesdal are located there, and these schools can show very good results for children with reading and writing difficulties. By certification from Dysleksi Norway, schools are given a stamp of approval that tells them that they work well and systematically with reading and writing training. Dyslexible schools have no more time or resources than other schools, but they put knowledge into systems and create good practice. Dyslexia Norway is doing a very important job, but it is not that schools need to have this particular certification in order to be dyslexic. The important thing is that students with challenges get good and proper help early in the educational cycle, so that they do not become attached. The longer we wait, the larger the gap goes to the classmates. All children must be followed-up from the start before a dyslexia is available. A dyslexia diagnosis can only be made after the initial reading training is started and at a time when the students are expected to have broken the reading code. Normally it's at step 2, but it could be later. Then the child has already missed a lot. Children who have come a long way in their reading and writing development may also fall away because of poor motivation. These children therefore need additional challenges. Children must be followed up where they are at all times. Researchers assume that around 2-5 pst. there is some form of dyslexia in the population. Which school you go to should not determine how fast you get caught or how good you get help. The right goal is that no one should go out of primary school without learning to read, write and calculate properly. We once decided for all spring 2018 that all children should be seen and given the help and support they need, and at the earliest possible time. At that time, the Stortinget decided to support the government’s proposal to introduce a new obligation to provide intensive training to students between 1 and 4. steps at risk of being followed. All schools and school owners are obliged to ensure that students with reading, math and writing difficulties are given appropriate training. It is an important proposal that is being debated here today, and I hope the municipalities will make sure to follow up their commitments to the children without having to set an absolute deadline for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e386	Which school you go to should not determine what kind of training and help you get when you get there, just said the representative Synnes’ Emblem wave. That is precisely what this proposal is about. It's about the municipalities having this duty, but they don't take it. I record that many here have an incredibly great patience with the municipalities, while SV and I believe that they should be concerned that the students actually get the instruction they need, and that the competence that needs to be provided is in place. It was also shown that the dyslexic schools are doing well. Yes, exactly! They're doing it. They can help these students who, some of them, would otherwise deter schooling and learning for the rest of their lives, to put it that way. But if they get good help, this can go really well. It's impossible to understand why you don't want to set a time-table goal in order to achieve this. There's been coals coming for coal with students. There's plenty of them, and they've been waiting long enough. They have to get this now. We also have to look at teacher training. It can't be that we train small school teachers who don't know anything about dyslexia and dyscalculia. That's the first thing you talk about when you're going to school. I record that the Right and the Civilian talk a lot about them being so busy that children will learn to read and write. Yes, I will guarantee that I am too, because I know everything about struggling with it, and how stigmatizing it is in both private and working life when you make this mistake. I also know that there are ways to improve this that Norwegian students today cannot access because someone is sitting and saying that we cannot make a plan, we cannot impose this on the municipalities. They have this responsibility, but we cannot impose it on them. Well, we can, and we should because the students need it. Nor will the government implement a timetable for schools to be universally designed for children with different types of disability. What is this? Aren't we going to set these goals and implement them? In fact, this goes all the way down to the violation of the human rights of students who are not allowed to attend their secondary school or who are not given the training they are going to have – despite all these big messages, despite all the big words and all the big plans. What we are proposing is to set a deadline and implement a plan, so that all schools should have this competence in place and prioritize it – and not have the freedom to give it priority. That's SV against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e397	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President takes note of the fact that case No. 9 will be dealt with before case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e416	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e433	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e440	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its work on the proposal for a representative and, in particular, for the indifference shown by the opposition when I, as the rapporteur, completely forgot the deadlines for comments. The issue today is about school structure and the prohibition of profit. Here it is not surprising that there is a dividing line in the hall, and I assume that the parties themselves will explain and justify their proposals and comments. The prohibition of dividends has been laid down in the law since 1970 and has been clarified and elaborated in later legal works, for example. with the amendments to the Law on Vocational Training in 2015, when new transparency requirements were introduced and increased record-keeping obligations for the post-secondary schools were introduced. A thorough review of the legislation was then carried out to ensure the intention of the law that grants should benefit students. Schools approved under the Law on Free Schools are entitled to state grants, but they do not have the right to make dividends. In the post-secondary sector, supervision and controls are carried out which reveal actors using state subsidies in breach of the law and the supervision is, as the majority of them state in their comments: ‘more and more professionally and accurately, and experience with previous offences means that potential offences can be followed up more effectively in the future’. We therefore believe that there is no need for more stringent legislation today, because the law of high school regulations has clearly indicated what schools are allowed to use grants and student payments for. In the Progress Party, we are very concerned with diversity in the school sector, and we were very pleased with the changes in 2015 that opened up so that private actors can start schools such as real-time and vocational schools. Increased diversity is important. It gives more freedom of choice for families and students and more learning between schools. Results from Sweden show that the final characteristics are improving in areas with fresh schools, and not only in primary schools, but also in public schools, which suggests that competition is positive. This proposal for a representative attacks freedom of organisation, while making everyday life more unpredictable by shifting the authority to reduce the number of student places to municipalities and counties. Among other things, you jump. review the principle of allowing a municipality to reverse a decision taken by a governmental administrative body. We are sceptical of such a restriction of freedom of organisation. We do not believe it is obvious that a requirement for fresh oils to be organised, for example. a foundation would be a greater guarantee that State grants would benefit students or that State grants would not be used contrary to the law. We will not support the proposals that have been made in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e462	I think we can agree that we have a pretty good law, but it's a continuous development. There has been a development since 2015, and our goal is that this law should be better, and that one must close holes – and in several areas. For example, the Workers' Party believes that a hole must be closed against commercial operators who take dividends. There is one clearly not in the goal. The law has weaknesses. In the autumn of 2017, the state lost an appeal against the Academy. The Ministry of Knowledge called back government grants after supervision had been carried out in which a thought grant was used in violation of the law, i.e. one did not use it for the benefit of the students, but the state lost. That's why we have a proposal to do this that makes a tighter hole and ensures that all state aid goes to the best of students, and I hope the Council of State in its speech can say something about its follow-up to the Akademie case, where the state lost. The other applies to organisational forms. For the Workers' Party, it is important to avoid getting huge and complex organisational structures where one can hide away with sub-companies, and not least that one hinders transparency. For this reason, we have a proposal together with the Centre Party and the SV to ‘explore new forms of organisation to run private schools that facilitate non-profit activities while at the same time ensuring public transparency in the use of public funds’. We believe that this is necessary. The third, and perhaps most important and most topical now, is local self-determination. The Labour Party believes that the school structure is best localised, and there is no doubt that there is a need to tighten up the legislation. Last week's evening post could make a serious discovery that new private schools are pushing public schools out. That there has been a huge increase in the number of private schools and private schools under this government, we knew, but this case reveals that the Right has driven with a deliberate snuff privatisation of School-Norway, and abused, I mean, the room of discretion in the law to implement ideological, right-wing decisions contrary to professional advice. The law firm of Raugland has assessed these matters and believes that they are poorly justified and that the ministry has answered clearly in advance. So the right-hand side is running a deliberate snitch privatisation that is in conflict with the professional advice. The working party will do it differently. We will not weaken the general public school. We believe that the school structure is best determined locally, and has arranged for a local veto right, so that you cannot sit in the department in Oslo and determine the school structure in Stavanger, in Flekkefjord or in Hadsel. That is why we have a proposal on this. Our intention is to close holes and expand and improve a good law. It is a pity that the government is so satisfied with its own efforts that you have not been willing to comment on any of the opposition's proposals in this matter. With that, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e479	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has drawn up the proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e484	First of all to the representative Tvedt Solberg: I would recommend him to read the follow-up in the evening post of the Minister of Knowledge on the wording related to the handling of postgraduate applications. Then he will see that the matter is a little different from what was first submitted. I think it is a little unreasonable to bring that matter forward on the wrong premises. But what we are going to discuss here today is really the principle of whether we should be able to have a diverse school sector. There's no doubt that for the Right it has a self-value. Not least the right of parents to have alternatives. This is even enshrined in international treaties. For the Right, it's important that we have this right, but of course it's also very important that we bet on and have the best possible public school. This is precisely why the Right in Government in recent years has had a massive and strong commitment to many measures to raise public schools and schools in general in Norway. I want to say that we see results, because the students read better, learn more, we have fewer who fall off, and more who get a letter – just to mention something. I would also like to remind you that it is not so many years since we have been dealing with the law of high school that we have today. There was an intrusion of the law after a thorough review of the legislation that was dealt with here in this Chamber – Prop. 84 L for 2014-2015. Then we made a series of intensifications into the legislation to ensure that the intention of the law on grants – that money should benefit students – was taken care of. In fact, there has been a ban on dividends in the law since 1970. In later legal work, we have clarified and elaborated this, among other things. by introducing new transparency requirements and increased documentation obligations in 2015. In summary, I would like to say that much indicates that today's law of free school and the system works as intended. Supervision and control have revealed schools that have used state subsidies in breach of legislation, and supervision is becoming increasingly professional, effective and effective. A restriction on freedom of organisation, such as: The proposal for a representative on the organisation of foundations does not provide any evidence that there will be a greater guarantee that the state grant will benefit students or that the grant will not be used in any other way. There are many factors that affect the quality of the overall school supply in a municipality or a county. There is no doubt that a reduction in the number of pupils in fresh schools rather than other measures will improve the quality of public school provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e497	Public schools have been and are still of enormous importance to ensure that all children and young people growing up are offered a good school offer. Historically, the provision of school and education in itself was a major step forward, while in these days there is constant development and improvement. The law underpinning the responsibility of municipalities, counties and states is important. The requirements for the practice and development of education through the Training Act, together with the Higher Education Act, are good. Private initiatives complement the public offer in several places. When the Education Mirror shows that almost one in four high school students are private and at the lower end of one in ten students go there, we have to discuss the direction. In fact, municipalities and counties must be able to offer what they are required to do. The public education institutions must be good. The tax entrance must be managed wisely. Trust is essential. In addition, private deposits contribute to a valuable offer. The problem is when a few unprofessional actors speculate in this market that the right-wing government wants, where students and students become customers in the school and education markets. We need to put in place clearer boundaries for different forms of private schooling. Ideal businesses must have a clear framework and be in a special position among the private sector. Furthermore, transparency is a prerequisite for a modern, democratic society. The funds that go to school are going to benefit the students and the students. Therefore, it is also very important that municipalities and counties have real influence over school places and the offer they are required to make. This applies both to expansion and to cutting school places and services. Fewer students and low birth rates are a fact in most municipalities around the country – which has consequences. The nation state protects us all, and the government of the people is a fundamental value we have to care for. It shall be possible to influence decisions in local communities through elected bodies. The operation of schools and educational institutions is one of the most important things for the public, and then governance must also be close to people throughout the country. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e514	Then the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has drawn up proposal No. 5, from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e519	Private schools or colleges receiving state subsidies are not allowed to collect private profits. Nevertheless, in recent years there have been a number of cases in which such schools have had to pay back state subsidies after supervision has revealed that the school owner has made various profits based on school practice. Despite strict rules against private profit, private school and college owners manage to raise money through complex corporate structures and transactions between them. The detection of such offences requires large amounts of public expenditure for supervision and control. For example, the Education Directorate had to: use seven annual works and approximately SEK 850 000 in external assistance to detect and collect the 12.5 million. kr The Academy had to pay back, according to information in a reply letter from former Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to Stortinget. What we needed now was an open and democratic debate on the use of public funds when private actors operate services on behalf of the public. The government should follow its own promises, the legislation should be clearer and tightened up. A review should lead to increased requirements for transparency and transparency of transactions in large school chains and groups, so that the general public can be made aware of the activities. Complex ownership structures can often be accompanied by comprehensive tax planning. The weaknesses of the current model and the cost of supervision mean that SV believes that changes in the organisational framework conditions for private schools and colleges should be considered. It is then easy to refer to the scheme they have in Denmark, where all private schools receiving State grants are required to be organised as foundations themselves. I believe that introducing a Danish model with clear organisational requirements for private schools will make clear demands on what non-profit schooling should mean. A new non-profit form of organisation should therefore be explored, in addition to its formation, which can provide greater transparency to the public while at the same time being a simple and good form of operation for schools. Clear requirements may also reduce the need for supervision. I take up a loose proposal on this matter on behalf of SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e534	Then the representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up proposal No. 6, from SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e539	For the left, there is no doubt that it is always most important to bet in public schools, and the large, large majority of Norwegian students go to a public school. I notice that there are representatives here who use words like ‘snick privatisation’ about what is going on in the Norwegian school. It's a concept that I think is very strange to use, all the time the large majority of Norwegian children still go to public school. The second point: I don't think anyone here is trying to do anything behind anyone's back or keeping their policies secret. I feel that the majority parties – Left, Right, Christian People’s Party and the Advance Party – are quite open that we look positively at a diversity in the Norwegian school offer, and that we want it to be an element of fresh schools, but that of course we are betting the most at public school. I also react a little when it comes to the importance of transparency, and how important it is to work against profit, because no one has raised the opposite – namely that we should not have transparency and that we should have the opportunity to profit. The fact that it is not possible to take out the profits of post-secondary education is a policy of which there is a broad disintegration. That is why there are very strict rules. I believe that the examples it has been shown, that it has been found by oversight that someone has made a mistake, show that the system is working. It is absolutely right that if someone has made a mistake, it should be discovered, and then they should be taken for it. What neither the SV, the Center Party, nor the Workers' Party talk so much about is freedom of choice and parents' right to choose education for their children. It's a right that the Left believes is very important. It is quite right that municipalities should have a lot of room to control school policy in their municipality, but sometimes I believe that politics is also about safeguarding minority rights. An example from Lærdal: A single-voice cross-school was closed – from the Senterpartiet. You can then ask yourself if it is always right that the majority of a local government should be the ones that decide – above all, in all towns and cities, throughout Norway. Or is it also true that we have some kind of emergency valve in democracy that says that if parents in a community want to go together to maintain the branch school, will they be allowed to do it? Isn't that really okay? Isn't that a way in which the majority can actually protect minority interests? I think that both the posts and – perhaps in particular – the proposal from the Swedish authorities are suspicious of those who run private schools and fresh schools. I think most of us who have visited many of these colleges and seen why they're so important to people, realize that they all, most of them do because they believe that this is a very good education for the kids. I also believe that the proposals represent a strong intervention in their ability to manage their offer for the benefit of the young.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e553	A wide range of school services benefit families, municipalities and not least children. The Christian People's Party believes that schools with alternative pedagogy or a life-vision basis are an important alternative to public school. But most importantly, free schools guarantee parents the right to choose training for their children in line with their own beliefs. This enriches and broadens education opportunities in Norway. In a case like this, it's important for me to go back a little bit in time, because the Christian People's Party has a long and proud history that champions predictable conditions for the colleges. Already back in 1970, the Christian People's Party, with Kjell Bondevik as State Council, had passed on the country's first law on private schools, which replaced a system that until then was based on discretion. In 1995, the Christian People's Party fought for a better state funding of private schools, to ensure real parental rights by not relying on parents' finances to choose school. Free schools have a self-esteem that needs to be protected. They are key contributors to innovation, to diversity and quality in the Norwegian education system. Free schools are not an unregulated field, as today's debate may sound like the opposition parties, with profit-based owners who need to be affected by new structures and additional profit bans, beyond what we already have today. I'm proud that we have a law of free school that is quite clear that state subsidies and school money in their entirety are going to benefit the students, and that it is forbidden to make dividends. The dividend ban has been enshrined in the law ever since we got the first law in 1970. At the same time, the law on early school leave has been both clarified and elaborated, and one of the changes that have been made is that, as of 2015, post school leavers were subject to public supervision and control through new transparency requirements and increased documentation obligations. The Christian People's Party has opposed previous proposals that have intended to give municipalities and county municipalities the right to veto the establishment of new health schools. With the introduction of such a veto right, as SV is actually proposing in this Document 8, we in the Christian People's Party fear the eroding of an important democratic principle and thus the rights of a minority in a democracy. This would clearly threaten parents’ right to choose training for their children in line with their own beliefs. It worries us. We believe that the parental right, as enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Declaration of Human Rights, is at risk of having municipal review. We therefore vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e566	I would first like to stress that the main job of the government is to strengthen the public school and enable it to lift all students independently of background and residence. At the same time, parents and students who wish to choose something other than the public school should have the opportunity to do so. Publicly funded fresh oils contribute to increased diversity and are an important complement. Today it's 3.2 pst. by primary school students and 7.2 pst. by high school students attending fresh schools. Free schools take on an important social responsibility. Therefore, strict requirements are required to obtain approval. The legislation provides a basis for careful and concrete evaluations, which balance the considerations underlying the establishment of a post-secondary school with regard to public schools and their operation. The government establishes a reasonable balance between the host municipality and the host state on the one hand and the ability of pupils and parents to choose between different schools in the other. There are several challenges to a legislative amendment which means that an authorisation decision can be converted. On a principle basis, it is problematic whether a municipality or county municipality should be able to reverse decisions taken by a governmental administrative body. It will also be difficult to establish a right of conversion without, at the same time, weakening predictability and legal certainty both for parents and for students who have chosen to be students at a post-secondary school. The prohibition of dividends is clearly stated in current legislation and, in the event of a breach, the legislation opens up to different reactions, including withdrawal of the authorisation. In 2015, new transparency and documentation requirements were introduced for the post-secondary schools. We now have a legal basis that ensures the necessary transparency. The general rule that an approved post-secondary school cannot carry on any other activity was continued in the 2015 Act, but with clarification of the rules on permitted ancillary activities. Clear regulation reduces the risk of cross-subsidisation and illegal use of State grants. The amendments to the 2017 Act now require that all government grants and school fees should benefit students. This applies irrespective of the form of the company. It is serious when approved fresh oils misuse the confidence they have gained in managing Community funds. The regulatory framework shall prevent various forms of abuse. Therefore, the legislation was tightened in 2015. However, requirements for the use of a particular form of company are not appropriate to reduce the risk of such transfers to other legal entities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e587	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e592	I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on the revelations that came in the evening post last week. It was revealed that the Right deliberately privatizes School-Norway, and abuses the space of discretion in the law to implement ideological, right-wing decisions contrary to professional advice. So it's up to the Education Directorate to deal with applications to start fresh schools in Norway. In the event of rejection in the Directorate, the Department shall decide. With the Right in Government, the Ministry of Knowledge has tried out the professional advice of the Directorate in a majority of cases. The law firm of Raugland has assessed the cases, they consider that they are poorly justified and that the department has answered clearly in advance. The Minister of Knowledge would not answer or interview the case – refused to answer the evening post’s questions. That's why I want to start by repeating what I think is one of the most important questions the evening post tried to ask: Does the Council of State think it is immaterial whether the establishment of these private schools has negative consequences for public school provision in the municipality in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e599	I assume that the representative Tvedt Solberg has also seen that the evening post has complained about parts of his report. It is not that I refused to answer any questions. I have answered the questions I have received. I have also not seen the statement it refers to from the law firm. It is not the case that the Ministry has an easy way of dealing with these matters — on the contrary. The Ministry has a thorough handling of these matters. I think the average treatment period is about six months. So it's like the department's dealing with the law. We are dealing with the preparatory work and the Committee's comments. This balances the consideration of the host municipality and the host state against the interests which can speak for the school to have its application fulfilled. It is of course done within the framework of the law, and the room of discretion that the ministry has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e608	I'm not asking if the department is thorough in its assessment, I'm really just going to take that into account. I would like to make it clear to the Council of State that the evening post has been lamented is the process – that Raugland's assessments were not submitted to the Council of State in advance. But the evening post says they're 100 percent behind the content of the case. So I think it's important to stick to the realities of what's sorry, and not overplay it. My question, and as I think is the case, concerns what lies behind the Ministry's reasoning when you politically review the professional advice. The Minister of Knowledge himself has said that the law uses discretion to land on another assessment. But what is the rationale of the Council of State for changing the decisions of the professional bodies politically in the department, and what lies behind this judgement, which leads to a political review of the professional councils, and thus ignores the negative local consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e615	The representative forwarded claims that it was not a thorough treatment. I would strongly distance myself from that. There is a thorough treatment of qualified lawyers in the Department of Knowledge. Then, of course, the law and the law-former – both what is in the proposition, and the comments that have come from the committee. Then it is that the law opens up a judgement, and then there is a concrete assessment in the individual case where the consideration of the host state, the host municipality, is to be weighed against what can speak for the establishment of a school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e622	The realities of some of the individual matters are quite different from what the Council of State now says, and what he has said before. In Flekkefjord, for example, you said no locally. The Ministry of Knowledge said in its reply that it was not likely that a school would be closed for which the municipality argued. So now the reality is that you have to drop out of public school. The ministry looked away from it and thought it wasn't likely, but now it's the reality. So you have ignored the important wording of the law that says that it should not go beyond the local school structure. Then I believe that the Council of State is only left to argue that it is ideology behind – when one clearly ignores the arguments of the municipality that this is going to go beyond the school structure, and when one checks the local self-government and the professional advice of the directorate. Is there anything else in the individual matter that the Council of State has seen, that has not come forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e627	The representative mixes two questions. One is the political debate on the extent to which it should be opened up to incubators. There's the four government parties and the red-green parties disagree, and I think we're still going to be. The second question is the treatment in the ministry when there is a complaint on a case. Then it is up to the department to evaluate all the aspects of that case, and we take the starting point of the information that comes with the individual case. In other words, a specific assessment of the individual case is made. This is based on the law – the wording of the law that it should not go beyond public school provision – and it should be weighed against the considerations that speak for, as explained in the bill’s preparatory work and in majority comments that the Workers’ Party has also participated in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e632	If we assume that we distance ourselves from profit and support the possibility of alternative offers in addition to the public school system/educational provision, I still think that we have to assume that it is quite different across the country and that they know the best. Local elected representatives have enormous responsibilities and should also have the means and authority to manage that responsibility. The right tends to speak to the municipalities and local maritime councils, and I can only wonder what the head of the KS, Højres own Helgesen, thinks about the statements made by representatives of the government parties here today that it is important that national decisions taken by local councils should be overturned. I'm simply wondering if the Council of State would say anything about how far this possibility should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e638	It depends on the law, but also on international human rights. The parental right is fundamental – I thought the centre party also joined it. But then I'm going to admit that it's a dilemma – there's no doubt about it. In many places, we see that the municipality has completed the primary school, and then we see that it is a strong local parental exposure to establish a boarding school. Then there is a balance between the reasons that the municipality brings forward and the consideration of the citizens of the area who want to establish a free school. It is the concrete assessment and weighing that the Ministry makes within the discretionary room for which the law opens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e643	Municipalities and county councils have a right of objection under the Law of Secondary Education when schools apply to start up or extend the number of students. The law states that authorisation shall not be granted if the establishment has a negative impact on public school provision. In many municipalities and county councils, the approval of health schools has created major challenges for public school provision, even with a relatively limited decision. I and many politicians in our municipalities and county councils therefore believe that the law stands in the way of the possibility for elected representatives to make the choices that they think are best for their students. And now I want the minister to put on the boots, stand on the kaikant and say something about what he wants to say to the people elected around in the whole country with the boots on the kaikant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e648	First of all, they do an important job for their community. However, the question raised relates to the situations in which the municipality, for example, have completed a primary school, and they want to establish a school locally in that branch. As I said in my previous answer, it's a difficult balance. Sometimes the municipality's argument is so clear that we follow the municipality, in other cases we can follow those who want to establish a school. It is in line with the majority, including the Workers' Party, who wrote in 2007 in the position of Stortinget: ‘The majority have noted that the opinion of the host municipality or the host state is not to determine whether an application is to be granted or not. It's the law's purpose to facilitate alternative schools. The majority consider that a no to an application cannot be justified by the budgetary situation.» There has been a broad majority in Stortinget which has just pointed out that it should be the discretionary room and the balance that the ministry is making in concrete terms, and that it follows the law and regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e658	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e665	The Labour Party is committed to having a good public common school while we have private schools as a supplement that allows parents to choose educational or religious alternatives. When today's government parties changed the law of free school in 2015, it was a liberalisation, although it did not go as far as under the Bondevik II government, when Kristin Clement was the Council of State. In 2015, among other things, it opened. in the case of so-called profiling schools, i.e. a private school which in practice differs very little from the public offer in total. Profile schools can be offered in almost any area, and the difference between them and the public school does not need to be more than two hours a week. Private vocational schools shall provide the same training programme as the public school. Then private schools are no longer a supplement, but a competitor of public school. The results after these years of a Right-led government are clear. On Erna Solberg's watch, it's almost 40 pst. several pupils in private primary schools, and this government has approved more than three times as many private schools per year as the red-green government did. In many cases it is against the will of the municipality, even against the recommendation of the Education Directorate. This is a sneak privatisation of the Norwegian school, and we believe that the government has committed to a development that slowly undermines the public school. Maybe there are no alarms now, but I want to say that evolution is alarming. What government parties should do is take over the situation out there in many Norwegian municipalities. The pupils' development shows us that in the years to come there will be a decline in the number of students in many municipalities. Once private schools have passed their schooling almost forever, it is the municipality that has to reduce the capacity of public schools. One of the most important tasks of our local politicians is precisely school structure. They like to have thorough debates and make difficult adjustments to change the school structure of their municipality or county. When the government approves private school places against the wishes of the municipality, even against the recommendation of the Education Directorate, it makes the job of the municipalities very difficult. Every now and then, we politicians discover that our rhetoric doesn't fit completely with reality. That's what happens in this case: the fundamental and ideological arguments of the Right Party and the Advance Party meet reality in the municipalities, and what happens now if progress continues is that the public school offer is being undermined in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e680	There were some statements here that I needed to answer and elaborate a little bit. The representative Gudmundsen asks me to read the evening post's complaint. I almost have to return that to the representative Gudmundsen, because, as I said to the Council of State, what the evening post has lamented is that they did not have a simultaneous attendance, as it is called in the media language. They did not complain about the content of the matter, that is not the basis for it, and I think it is strange that the honourable Member's representative claims from the Parliamentary Chair. The council thinks I'm mixing. I disagree with that. I might even say that it's the Council of States that mixes. I agree that there is a political disagreement about private schools. We are happy to take that debate every day. But that's not what I asked for in the line change, and that's not what I'm concerned about in this Evening Post case. What I ask questions about is the use of discretion, and if the Council of State thinks those questions are unpleasant, it doesn't mean that I mix. It just means I'm impatient and asking for answers. I believe the matter concerns what lies behind the Ministry of Knowledge's reasoning when a political review of the professional advice and ignores the local consequences. My claim is – as I said – that the only one left in argument is the ideologically motivated sneak privatisation of the schools. I just want to note that I have asked the Prime Minister and the Minister of Knowledge about this, and we have not yet received an answer as to what lies behind the use of discretion that the Council of State elaborates. He can answer now if he wants to. In any case, we will follow the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e689	I think it is regrettable that we are going to have an exchange of words where we are obviously trying to misunderstand each other. It was quite clear from the Council of State that neither the opinion of the lawyer nor the question was presented. It was quite strange to hear the representative Tvedt Solberg claim that the Council of State would not respond. I think there's a contradiction in what's pretty obvious. That's why I think it's very sad that we're trying to draw attention away from what's at the heart of the matter here today, namely whether we should be able to have a law that opens up so that we can have a diversity in School-Norway, and that framework should facilitate the implementation of international agreements such as: the parental right and the choices we as parents should have. I would also like to remind the representative, Mr Tvedt Solberg, that the Workers' Party has been involved in the committee's examination of the law on early school education that we have today, in order to facilitate, for example, the provision of vocational training. the finances of municipalities alone shall not be decisive in the exercise of discretion to be taken into account when the Ministry — or the Directorate for that matter — deals with a free school application. There are, as the Council of State itself was, obviously some dilemmas on which to deal with any application: there are different local circumstances, there are different considerations to be taken into account. It would obviously be impossible to go into this in general, you have to go into each case to make the right choices. That is also what lies in the nature of the matter. If you look at the number of complaints to the directorate, it's not like you've had a hundred percent in the Department of Knowledge. You haven't gotten that in a long time. This shows, as has also been the case here today, that there is a thorough, long and serious treatment of all individual complaints to the ministry based on the legal framework and on the principle of diversity in the school sector where there is a local need, for example. to challenge the school because you have a different view of how to operate a school offer or where the municipality is setting up a community school and it will be very demanding for the community not to have an offer in their community. This I believe is values and principles that are completely fundamental, and that I thought there was a broad consensus here. It would have been interesting to hear whether the Workers' Party now believes that this international law, the right of parents, and this diversity should be totally disregarded, and that it would be preferable to see that all schools in Norway were run by municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e700	The answer to the last question from the representative Gudmundsen is no. This matter is not about whether one willfully misunderstand each other or not. It's about how to manage the school offer in Norway. The dilemma in school policy with regard to the balance between public school provision and the recognition of private school places is a dilemma that government parties do not seem to recognise. One can sit in a local government and have long debates about the school structure – either because the number of students changes and you have to do something about the professional environments, or because of the economy – and between those debates there can also be a choice where people have voted on the parties they agree to in school structures. Then a private school is established. It is approved, and then the whole debate on school structure is almost put in the drawer. It's a big dilemma for many of the country's local politicians. In practice, this development means that elected representatives do not have the governance of the school structure that should be in place. What's worrying is that it's a challenge that's going to increase because the number of students in a lot of municipalities in the years to come is falling. That dilemma does not see the Right Party and the Advance Party. Even the recognition of a limited number of private schools can create quite major challenges for a municipality and for public schools. It's not like there's either a magic money bin out there that just finances the private schools, or we have a surplus stock of teachers. That's not how it is. Every single penny that goes into state aid to private schools comes in practice from public budgets. Teachers and others do not automatically arise simply because the department has approved a private schooling place. Since 2013, the right-wing government has argued that priority should be given to local school structures. In practice, the right-hand government has approved more than 20,000 new private schools, 150 new schools, and the number of pupils in private primary schools has increased by almost 40 pst. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that it is important that the elected representatives should have better governance of the school structure in their municipality and do what they think is necessary. In an age of increased diversity and polarisation of the public debate, it is even more necessary and important that we maintain and strengthen the public common school as an arena where all pupils meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e709	I got a question from the representative Tvedt Solberg in his first post about a legal case that the Ministry of Knowledge should have lost. Let me just make it clear that it is wrong to say that the Ministry of Knowledge lost the matter. The Ministry of Knowledge was given the right to agree to the principal, but some of the repayment requirements made some of it invalid. It has now been finalised in the administration. Then the question is how the department has followed up the judgment in Borgarting Lawyers' Law 4 September 2017. What I have done is to ensure that guidelines have now been developed for the trading of post-secondary schools and the assessment of market prices. This is an important measure. We have also informed the Education Directorate that applications for new schools and applications for operational extensions should not be considered in all schools within the Akademite structure until the ongoing supervision of the schools and the Akademite structure for 2012–2014 has been completed. This is important. Where there's a reason not to use public funds properly, we'll do it. And then we're going to continue the political debate here in Stortingen on how wide it's going to be open to incubators. I have answered the question about the exercise of discretion. I have also explained this in response to the Committee on the basis of this proposal for a representative, in which we are dealing with the law, to the preparatory work of the law, both those included in the proposal and those included in the Committee's position. There is a concrete balance in the individual case where there is room for discretion, and it is the consideration of the host municipality and the host county that must be balanced against the consideration of those who have complained about the establishment of a new school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e718	For me now, it is important to highlight the link between the national requirements and the leaders we put here from the Stortinget, and the conditions under which they are actually enforced outside the municipalities, how norm requirements, skills requirements and continuing training for teachers affect school structure and the actual school policy out in the municipalities. The more standardised and imposed from here, the more demanding it is to enforce and implement this in practice in each municipality and at each school. This is part of the school structure debate. In addition, it is clear that birth rates, student drop and demographic change are a major challenge. We all know that sitting here on Stortinget. I also want to draw up a quote that the Council of State used when he presented the curricula. He quoted Jan P. Syse, who said we're often against the sum of everything we're for. And there's exactly one of the issues here today: we're presenting enormous demands and expectations, but we're not giving the municipalities the opportunity to enforce them and take them as best they can. The framework conditions for running school are laid down by Stortinget, and then we must actually ensure that the instruments and framework conditions in each municipality are also able to meet the requirements we make from this. I almost feel that there is a sort of undertone that the municipalities do not want to respect human rights. Of course, the municipalities and the elected representatives want to do that, and also the individual central party, for all things. It's also important that we don't assign them any other intentions than that they want to do the best they can, and that they are sincerely concerned about running good schools around the country. It is also important that we do not waive responsibility for what is happening, because what is happening around the country related to school structure, we are also part of. It's clear that the sum of everything we're in here can have negative consequences, and then the Center Party believes that we need to have framework conditions and laws that enable one to regulate and care for the best possible local ability, because it's the locals who know best what the stand is like.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e729	The representative Knutsdatter Strand said that it is the locals who know best what the stand is. I agree with that, in many things, but can't you go even a little further and say that it's the parents who know best what's best for their children, and that it's the local people in a branch who know best what's good for their branch? I agree that local politicians should have a great right to control school policy in their municipality. That's why it's also part of the law that if a private school has a negative impact, it can of course weigh in, but it can't be the consideration that trumps everyone else. We also need to be able to take account of the individual. All the time I've been to a montessori school or a rock school or other hospitals around, because it's pretty often what it is, they're talking about a lot of the kids who go there, either coming from the small community, or there's kids who often don't get along in public school. In many places, the little incubator is the only option they have for a large public school, and if that school had not been found, that family – the parents and the student – had no choice. Traditionally, there has been a broad consensus that we should have the opportunity to establish fresh oils in Norway. Luckily, they all, most parents choose the public school, and I'm very happy about that, because it's an important common arena. But I think – with the posts coming from the red-green parties – that you are moving very far towards actually wanting to restrict the possibility of establishing fresh oils. I believe that this is a very worrying direction, and I do not want us to go into this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e741	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e746	What I think we have not received answers to today, and we have not received in other debates, is: if the argument for today's private school law or for voting against the proposals that are in the Chamber today is diversity, why is it that the increase in private schools under this government comes first in schools that are almost exactly the same as the public offer? They are almost like a competitor — either profile schools, which can in practice be distinguished by two hours a week, or vocational schools that have the same educational programmes as public schools. When the changes were up in Stortinget in 2015, the argument from the Right was that it was among other things. had to be more involved in real science. You should get more real-time colleges, was the sales argument. The fasitite so far is that there is one real science gym. The big change is, among other things, that many youth sports schools have come up with an offer that is virtually not different from the public offer. I believe there is reason to ask if there are schools that offer something significantly different from what the public school should offer. It'll be a competitor – not a supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e753	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e758	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer to the challenge in the Akademie case. I think it was a good clarification and not least a good follow-up from the department on how that matter went. So to what was discussed here at the end. The Labour Party has looked at developments that have occurred. It's been a huge increase. It is also seen to be governed by the right-hand government in such a way that you are locally deprived of control. So you don't listen to the people locally. That's what we've chosen to do, and that's why we've adopted policies that we want a local veto right, because we think it's best to determine the school structure locally. Of course, we don't put human rights aside, but the question is whether the government is completely ignoring another, equally important, paragraph of the law as to the local school structure. In this debate, I wish, as Henriksen also said, that the government parties had been honest that the enormous increase and snuff privatisation we now have is ideologically and politically justified – instead of hiding behind the law and discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e767	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e772	It's unfortunate to note that representatives Henriksen and Tvedt Solberg are really saying that just because you have no more than a couple of hours difference on the timetable, the rest of the school can't be quite as different from what you get in public school. I think that's a pretty strong assessment of the didactic work, the methodology, the organisational and the way you actually work out there in the diverse Free School Norway. In fact, some development work is being carried out that can contribute to bringing Norwegian school as a whole forward. I think we should praise and highlight that, because it's just this diversity that makes us see a new kind of development, which might not have happened otherwise. Not for that, it happens in public school as well. But the principle here is to have the right to this diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e777	The representative Guri Melby has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e782	I would also point out that I think the representative Henriksen has a very narrow definition of what constitutes diversity in a school. I've met teachers and principals at fresh schools who aren't most concerned about having other subjects or other hours on the schedule, but like for example. believes that they work in a completely different way from what you do in public school. They have a completely different system of follow-up for the individual student. They may have flexibility and practice it in a completely different way than in public school. Teachers may work in a different way than they often do in public schools. I have met with the principals who have previously been employed in the public school who have now started their own fresh schools, just to get the opportunity to work in the way they think promotes the best learning for the students – not to have as many different subjects as possible on the schedule, but to help support the development of children in the way they think is best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e787	I'll be brief. That this debate reveals different views about the place of colleges in our society, we've probably had to deal with already before. But I must say that I am surprised when the Central Party goes to the pulpit and argues so strongly that the municipalities and county councils should have full authority over the school structure. The question then has to be asked: Where does the right of parents and the rights of the minority in a democracy become if this principle is to be taken to the fullest extent possible? In my opinion, it is a direct violation of principles that the Centre Party has held in the past and has been a defender of. I think we should note that in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e792	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e807	It has been interesting to follow the debate on diversity in Norwegian school. First of all, I should like to hear to what extent the Council of State sees a connection, a kind of bridge, between that question and the next topic, what we are about to deal with. In several headlines in the NRK, we've got a sad insight into closed networks in social media, where the despair of young people sharing their heavy thoughts about self-harm and about taking their own lives. For many, such online communities are a place where you seek comfort and support to cope with evil and difficult feelings. Both suicide, suicide attempts and self-harm are a cry for help from despondent young people who need help to deal with difficult feelings. It is disappointing for all of us to witness that children and young people see no other way out than to end their lives. We can't sit still and let happen, we have to act. Suicide numbers have to go down. I have been introduced to a deeply tragic case that has moved me. In 2015, Mia, a 12-year-old, took her life. The parents have been affordablely open and have let us get an insight into her story. As far as I know, the councils have also had a meeting with them. There may be many reasons why children are struggling. For Mia there was bullying at school, a feeling of not belonging, for others there may be quite other reasons why they want to take their life. What's common is that they need help, and they need an environment that looks at them and can follow up. They have to be guaranteed a good psychosocial environment in school, they have a right to do so. In recent years, all the counties have received their own bullying agent. The annual report of the bullying officer in Akershus for the 2018–2019 school year states that there are many and serious violations of the Education Act Chapter 9 A, and the necessary action is sought. The bullying agent writes about large variations in the school’s management of bullying, and there is a great need to strengthen the school’s work on the psychosocial environment. Children and young people spend much of their time at school. It makes school one of the most important venues to discover children and young people who are struggling, and it's in school that we have to work systematically to build robust children. To dare to see and to dare to act is important. The point is that the school should have acted earlier and taken action for Mia. How do we avoid getting more stories like Mias? The parents of Mia put bullying on the agenda in 2015, and the documentary of the Innafor editorial of the NRK on social media suicide networks, recently shown, only underlines the importance of working with the psychosocial environment at school. It involves a fight against bullying and alienation every day. That is why today, with the support of the Granavolden Declaration and, to some extent, with the address of the Minister of Health, I will ask questions about how we can get the best out of our children and young people by getting a good suicide prevention job in school. I think it'll be important to reduce the number of suicides and attempted suicides. There are several such programmes with proven effectiveness, but the developers of the programmes experience falling between two chairs, more specifically between two sectors — health and education — and struggling to get these effective programmes out of school. It's my opinion that we can't get enough done to create a good and developing learning environment where everyone has a place and feels belonging. How will the Council of State work to ensure that knowledge-based and effective suicide prevention programmes, such as: YAM – Youth Aware of Mental Health – can be used more actively in school? This program is under the direction of the excellent Mental Health organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e830	Let me first of all thank the representative Carl-Erik Grimstad for addressing a very important and also very worrying topic. The fact that the question and the interpellation is addressed to the Minister of Knowledge underlines some of the key points in this case, namely that here we must work across and not within each of our sectors. We have to build the team around children and youth. Through, inter alia: The NRK documentary Trigger Warning has given us insights into difficult situations in life and suicide, which have affected too many young people. Studies have shown that many young people are mentally struggling and that more than before they report having mental disorders of different kinds. The NRK documentary also shows that many of the people mentioned had had contact with the psychiatry. When we talk about mental health challenges and suffering that this documenter addresses, these are challenges that health care needs to meet. The representative of Grimstad points out that work on suicide prevention in schools can be an important step towards reducing the number of suicides and attempted suicides. I agree that the school can help prevent mental health challenges. At the same time, we also have to be careful about transferring all responsibility to the school. I believe it is important that we work across sectors. Everyone who works with children and young people has to take responsibility in this important matter, and then it is we who belong to the public, who have to make sure that we build it around children and young people who are struggling. We know that people with suicidal desires or who commit suicide have often been plagued by mental problems. Children and young people need to know how to handle demands and expectations that meet them, both at school and elsewhere in life. This is where the school can contribute. The school's purpose paragraph states that students should develop knowledge and skills and attitudes in order to master their lives and to participate in work and community in society. Through the new curricula, we are now introducing public health and lifelong learning as a multidisciplinary theme in school. Both public health and lifelong learning have an individual perspective and a social perspective. Social fellowship and support are important for the individual's well-being, joy of life, mastery and feeling of self-worth. Public health and lifelong learning as a multi-disciplinary school theme shall provide students with competences that promote good mental and physical health and that allow them to take responsible life choices. In childhood and youth, the development of a positive self-image and a secure identity is particularly crucial. The multidisciplinary themes are defined in the curricula where they are relevant. For public health and lifelong learning, I can for example: social sciences. In the mention of the multidisciplinary theme of public health and lifelong learning, it says among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Intellect into how relationships and associates are affected by interaction with others, including digitally, is part of the competence of the subject. The course shall help students to make good choices in life and to address challenges related to sexuality, personal economy, intoxication, outreach and digital interaction.’ Social sciences also deal with the use of digital media and have a special responsibility for students developing digital citizenship or judgment. Of course, it is not just social subjects that are responsible for this multidisciplinary topic. I can also mention the subjects of physical exercise, KRLE and natural sciences. However, it is up to each teacher to design the training and how it is implemented. The representative Grimstad asks about how I will work towards knowledge-based and effective suicide prevention programmes such as: YAM, Youth Aware of Mental Health, can be used more actively in school. There are many different programmes that can be used for health promotion and prevention in schools and in other arenas where young people are gathered. I'm glad there are, and many schools are already using different programs to work with the learning environment and the student's self-image. However, I cannot go out and instruct the schools to implement programmes. From the national level, we put the leadership through the curricula, and then it's up to the individual school how they're going to work to achieve the goals of the curriculum, and to facilitate a good and safe learning environment at school. We have also done this by strengthening the school health service. It is important that different skills are around children and young people, and that there is a low threshold, so that students can get the help they need. We are not in the target in this area, but we are building this important support device for the students. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that the government has started work on a new action plan on suicide. The Ministry of Knowledge participates in this work. The Ministry has also entrusted the Education Directorate with the task of developing a network resource for the prevention of self-injury and suicide in schools. In the network resource there are examples of free resources that schools can choose to use. The network resource has been developed in cooperation with the Health Directorate. It is underlined that if schools need to work on such topics, it is recommended that schools work interdisciplinaryly with other disciplines and sectors on these issues. The school’s mandate is to contribute to the empowerment of students to understand and influence factors relevant to the individual’s life. This is about being able to handle emotions and relationships, passion and adversity. Of course, if teachers see that students are struggling, it is their job to get hold of it and help or help students get help in a different way. I am pleased that we have now presented a curriculum that has taken these questions into consideration as an important part of the training. I hope that it can contribute to increased attention and knowledge of mental health challenges and how the school can help students to gain skills that enable them to make choices that promote good health, and that it is possible to get help and get on with themselves when life is known as the darkest. We will take care of children and young people, and the school will take its share of responsibility. I would therefore like to thank you again for this important theme going on in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e856	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and thorough presentation on this difficult and serious issue. I think maybe he didn't get the question I initially asked in my previous post. It would have been interesting to hear the Council of State's thoughts on how diversity in school can bridge over to the work of improving the mental health of children and young people. I do not agree that there is no target for mental work, the goal must be to reduce the number of suicides among the young people who shoot in the weather. We can't live with that. Then I have to say that today, 19 November, we mark the International Human Day here at Stortinget, among others. with a seminar in the direction of the Left and the Mannsforum – so congratulations on the day, President. As the Council of State remembers, the Stoltenberg Committee delivered its report on gender inequalities in the Norwegian school in April this year. It paints a sad picture of the situation for the boys in meeting with the schoolwork in many ways. Girls have a consistently better understanding of language than boys at the age of four to six. The gender differences in reading and billing are small at the beginning of primary school, but evolve for the better for the girls in the teens. Nearly 70 pst. of those who need special education in primary school are boys. The girls' grades are better than the boys'. Absence in high school is clearly highest among boys. Far more girls than boys take higher education. Differences are increasing, which is particularly serious in tomorrow's community of competences, where knowledge is being sought more than today, while employment in what is today the human-dominated industries is decreasing. Men have lower life expectancy than women; men are consistently more childless than women, especially men with low education. This can obviously be linked to suicide and suicidal thoughts. At the age of 15 to 24, there are two times as many boys as girls who commit suicide. A total of two-thirds of men take their own lives, and the median age for suicide in Norway is 47 years. The left has been working for a long time for an escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. For many of our voters, and for me, it was therefore a disappointment that it was not possible to make a significant financial effort in combination with the escalating plan that finally came. This is, of course, a wish that the Left will take into account in future budgetary negotiations. We cannot let go of this, for example. because early intervention for mental health is clearly linked to the sad statistics we experience in the case of self-injury and suicide in the younger generation. I hope I have the support of the Council of State in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e873	Of course, the representative has the support of the Council of State in this important work – not just of this Council of State, but of the entire government. I understand that it is a common project that we are going to make sure that children and young people thrive in school and that they have safe school days. It's a prerequisite for learning. I believe that the representative raises an important question when asking questions about diversity in school can help bridge the gap to make more students feel secure about their identity, and that you are good enough. I believe that the representative is concerned about something very important. Many students, many children and young people, experience high demands and expectations, not only about what they should learn and what they should be able to do, but also about how they should be. I then agree that respect for diversity — and diversity itself — can help to give students security for their own identity and self. So the question is also the human perspective, or the boy perspective. I believe that we are now taking two important steps in the Storing Message Tight – on early efforts. It's about relocating your children's skills. Many children in kindergarten and boys in school experience meeting assistants where they should have met adults with relevant skills. Good special education, support and assistance from adults with the right skills is essential for raising the boys – and all children. We are now also proposing to introduce a follow-up obligation for schools. Children and young people often experience that small problems are allowed to grow big. What may have started as a small challenge that is not addressed is growing widely, and in youth it may have very negative consequences. Now we're going to drop a follow-up duty for the school. That means that if a student, for example, is a lot away from school, the school should get hold of this. There may be challenges at school; there may be challenges outside school. The fact that the school is given this follow-up obligation means that we can also contribute to the fact that the problems are not getting bigger. We have to make sure that the competence is close. That's the best help and support we can give to both boys and girls, that's the best help we can give to any child.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e882	Thank you to the representative, Mr Grimstad, who addresses a problem that is really topical, unfortunately, and which concerns too many. It may be impossible for us others to put ourselves into the pain that can drive a human being to take his own life. It may also be completely impossible for us others to see how painful it is for parents and relatives who experience someone who is struggling like that. This is really a challenge for those concerned, and it is also a challenge for society as a whole. That is why I believe it is absolutely right to lift this debate into the main hall. I agree with the Council of State: all responsibility cannot lie in the school in this context. But at the same time, the school is an excellent arena to take up this subject, and in the new curricula that have just come, as the Council of State said, public health and lifelong learning are an important part. What is public health and lifestress if not suicide? And when we look at mental health as the challenge it has become, especially among young people, it really has to be something to do with public health and lifelong learning. There's been a big debate and a lot of talk about physical activity and fruit in school. It must be at least as natural to prevent mental illness and to prevent suicide in school. When so many young people are struggling that this is perceived as a phenomenon, when we see suicide groups on social media, we need to strengthen prevention and not just treatment. The government has done a lot already. We have received a significant number of health care professionals and community psychologists. From the next year, all municipalities shall have access to a municipal psychologist. These are important measures. But I agree with the interpellant, who wants to get more attention on some of these programs, which are well documented. The interpellant pulled out the YAM itself. I will commend Mental Health for the work on that program. It's a program I think absolutely has a place in this work. So we get to work on this. They need resources to get it in place. I hope that one in the government's work on the prevention of suicide will also include the role of the school, and preferably through these kinds of programmes. It's perfectly legitimate to talk about physical activity and fruit in school, and it should be at least as legitimate to talk about the prevention of suicide in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e895	We all have a visible and invisible health, a physical and a mental health. It makes us whole people. The challenge with what doesn't seem to be difficult to address. It's harder to stand up to. But we have no one to lose. In the last decade, more and more young people have reported mental health disorders in studies. School is a major part of the young people's lives. What happens at school means a great deal about how children and young people with different backgrounds, different assumptions and prospects will get the best possible tools in the toolbox to build their future. Lifelong learning is now given a far greater place in the curriculum. In parallel with the last decade, the Internet, social media and smartphones have taken the train into society. Digital skills must be tapped both at home and at school. I notice that the Minister for Digitalisation believes that children should not get smartphones until they are in high school, at the same time nine out of ten ten-year-olds have smartphones. In research, the school situation appears to be one of the main causes of stress-related health problems. Motivation is extremely important for students to feel good and susceptible to learning. Lack of motivation and mental problems are the main reasons why young people do not complete secondary education. In a study from the University of Southeast Norway, the USN, seven out of ten people are asking that they experience schoolwork as stressful. Three out of ten are so anxious that it affects the quality of sleep. Many feel powerlessness when the number of samples and submissions accumulate. Teachers also report time pressure and too many demands to meet too little time. Measures must be taken in place. As I understand it, the USN was committed to adapting the YAM program to Norwegian conditions. The municipality of Kongsberg, with a skilled Senterpart rapporteur at the head, will now be on a pilot to test out the YAM programme together with Mental Health. I'm glad. The challenge to this great YAM initiative is that when they contact the Ministry of Health, they are sent to the Ministry of Knowledge. They fall between chairs, between ministries and between state councils. This is Despite YAM being based on a research study and broad documentation Despite the fact that we know that prevention, broad and universal action is what brings the best health benefits Despite the fact that the previous public health communication, the mental health strategy and the new public health communication point to the school in order to prevent: Despite the fact that the government is working on an action plan Despite the student organisation's belief that the school is one of society's most important arenas for preventing and detecting youth health challenges, and to a large extent prevention of suffering among young people Measures to improve people's daily lives must take place at many levels, especially in municipalities. A large proportion of municipalities reported mental health as one of the main public health challenges they face. In the previous public health report, Mental Health suggested that we need more openness and normalisation around mental disorders. The theme had its own chapter. In the most recently submitted public health report, mental health and the learning environment in schools do not have the same focus. We still have to work to master mental challenges as a society. There are many other promises to address health challenges and to work at school. The question then is what we see again of practical measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e932	I thank you for the good and useful contributions from all sides in this matter. It's important to focus on this, because it includes so many more than just the nearest ones. It has been estimated that there are between 5,000 and 6,000 relatives, related and survivors who have problems in Norway today following a suicide. It's important to bring it with you. Then I thank the representative Knutsdatter Strand for deepening the content of the YAM program. I didn't realize that until this year's budget consultation. It made a deep impression on me how it was presented. It is not just about therapeutic or prophylactic treatment in high school — it is also about creating a knowledge base, which I understand is what the Council of State is asking for. Mental Health requires 10,000 children, in quotation marks, to implement this program. In the opinion of the organisation, it will mean a lot to provide a basis for how to continue working on these matters. I notice that public health and mental lifelong learning are an essential part of the new curriculum. I welcome that. I look forward to getting better at it. The following questions then arise: How are we going to train teachers to do this? What basis of knowledge should we base ourselves on? It might be interesting to hear the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e941	I think we have a good knowledge base. What is often the challenge is that knowledge and competence are too far away from children. One of the things our government has been concerned about is that we need to bring more competence to the children, for example. by providing a stronger school health service, where appropriate in cooperation with different types of competence. There has been too much sector thinking in this area as well. A child or youth with challenges usually has not only one but several challenges. Then it is important that we work across sectors, and we represent the public, which is responsible for coordinating the various services. It is probably a challenge that many, both youth and parents, have experienced — that they suddenly have to coordinate the different services. There's a way to go, and that's a question that's high on the government's agenda -- how we can build the team around children and youth. So the different sides of this. One is our basic work to combat bullying and create a better and safer learning environment, which must be at the bottom. The second is the more systematic work that needs to be done to help and support children and young people who are struggling. The Ministry of Knowledge also asked for a knowledge overview of concrete advice on what schools can do to combat stress, which is also an element of this. Then we got back four specific advice. One is engaging education. The second is a good learning environment. The third is even workload. The fourth is to avoid the development of stress culture at school. These are four concrete advices that the school can work with as the basics to contribute to a good learning environment. Then we have to work systematically to help and support the students who are struggling. Not least we have to see them early. There I believe we have contributed both the standard of living and the norm of pedagogical education in kindergarten – several safe adults in kindergarten, and also the standard of teaching, for which the Christian People's Party was passed, and for which the government has followed up, which also contributes to the fact that there are more adults around the smallest children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e950	The debate on substance is then closed. 3 out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e966	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to three lines with replies from members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e973	I would like to thank the Economic and Social Committee for its good cooperation in this matter on the vote on the proposal for a representative, which contains a total of 15 proposals, either directly or indirectly, on agriculture and food. The Committee would stress that agriculture issues are important for the whole of our society. It is primarily about agriculture's main task of just producing food. It's about where people are going to live in our country, that we're going to have jobs in all parts of Norway. It is about being able to manage biodiversity through, for example: gravitation. And it's about security – and security in the face of a more unpredictable climate. In Norway, we have authorities that provide up-to-date and good, professionally trained dietary councils. It has been shown that they have been very successful, and the Committee stresses that many people in Norway have a good and varied diet. That's also one of the reasons we've experienced increasing life expectancy over the last decades. The Committee would stress that diets are also about culture. Both in different parts of Norway and in the world, food habits and food culture are influenced by the types of raw materials available and suitable for cultivation in different parts of the world. The same is true of our country: there are geographical differences in the composition of diet, but the Committee also stresses that different nuances of diet can provide good health. The Committee notes that the proposer has positive objectives for increased food production on Norwegian resources, which is an objective of the nutrition committee which appears to be very important, and which are also fully in line with adopted policies by the Stortinget, inter alia. in the processing of the agricultural notification. So I'll go over to the proposal of some of the committee's members, including the Labour Party, which I represent. We want to point out that it also has positive effects on the climate if one increases the proportion of Norwegian-produced food, so we want to get a case that can show the climate effect of it. Then it is important that we have the tools that are needed politically to produce food in Norway. With that, I would like to address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e990	The representative Nils Kristen Sandrøen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e995	This proposal for a representative is part of the so-called fight against meat, which has been the great sin of the climate in the public debate. I want to hold on to the fact that what has created the climate crisis, which we have to take for granted, is an excessive consumption of coal, oil and gas. It's not that we've had grazing animals in Norway, which has done it. It is also worth noting that agriculture is actually one of the sectors that have had a decline in CO 2 emissions. When it comes to dietary councils, and what a good meal to eat, and what a good deal to do, the Center Party thinks it's a personal choice. The authorities will provide advice – and have advice in the form of dietary advice – but I think we should limit ourselves to that. For the Centre Party it is a goal to release from Norwegian food production. We choose to measure it in terms of emissions per unit of output, i.e. how much or how little a unit of output is when one produces 1 kilo of beef, 1 egg or another agricultural product. That must be the goal. One of the proposals that we have mentioned is that we need specific climate advice on each individual gardening, and that must also be the basis for research. Therefore, the Centre Party strengthens the climate research before agriculture. But we don't know that Norway is a country that consists largely of grass, and where we grow grass. That grass can't eat us like people directly; it must be translated through an animal to make food off. If we are going to use the Norwegian resources, we have to use our grassland. We have to use our pasture. Then it's not right to start a fight against meat. I lack something about fish and seafood in this proposal – climate-friendly food is not mentioned. There was also no mention of fish and seafood when one of them was going to introduce a meat-free school meal in Oslo. And I have to say that I think this debate has spurred a little bit of even having a meat-free day has been almost a way of life. No one has come to realize that having pancakes on a Monday would have something to do with lifestyle – it's about having something for dinner. I would like to say that we all tend to focus on what is the target, that we should have the strongest possible agriculture, and that Norwegian agriculture should strengthen its climate advantage for years to come. That is what will be the central party's starting point for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1015	In the case currently under consideration by Stortinget, a whole 23 proposals have been made – originally 15 from Une Bastholm on behalf of MDG and 8 from the rest of the opposition. The intentions are undoubtedly the best, the main aim of which is to pursue and strengthen a food and agricultural policy that meets sustainability objectives in a good way. Nevertheless, it becomes problematic when a target is set to decide what people should eat on given weekdays, where the public is responsible for food, change the tax policy, convert the system of customs duties on agricultural products and impose detailed guidance on future agricultural settlements on the government – in one and the same representative proposal. The main task of agriculture is to produce healthy, nutritious and safe food for Norwegian consumers. Norway is a country characterized by mountains and valleys, fjords and outland, and only 3 pst. of our land area is cultivated. Of that area, only one third can be used to produce cereals, fruit and vegetables. The remaining two thirds of the agricultural area is mainly only suitable for grazing and grass. In order to exploit this area for food production, a producer must produce meat and milk in Norway. This is simply about having a living agriculture throughout the country. The Christian People's Party believes that it is up to individuals to take care of their own health through a healthy diet. At the same time, of course, the choices made by consumers will necessarily also affect producers in the value chain of agricultural products. Norway has good national dietary councils with recommendations for a healthy diet from Norwegian health authorities. Dietary councils are well documented, and they are changed regularly, in line with new knowledge. What consumers choose to buy must initially be up to each individual. Nevertheless, we have a national action plan for better diet in the population, which was launched by the government in March 2017. The action plan, jointly drawn up between seven departments, sets out a number of objectives and measures, including the objective of increasing consumption of vegetables, fruit and berries, coarse cereal products and fish by 20 pst. The plan is based on the national dietary councils developed by the Health Directorate. The action plan shall contribute to healthy diets and meals in order to promote health and to prevent diet-related diseases. The action plan for diets also has sustainability as an important element and indicates that a plant-based diet and increased intake of fish will contribute to achieving both health and climate policy objectives. Of course, the government will continue its work in line with the objectives and measures set out in the Better Diet Action Plan. With regard to the means of achieving the policy-specific objectives of agricultural policy, the increase in the production of cereals, fruit and vegetables or the striking balance between the price of cereals and forage, we believe in the Christian People's Party that this is something the agricultural settlement parties must agree on in the annual negotiations. Allowing Stortinget to provide strong leadership in this area will in the long term help to weaken the negotiating institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1028	In Norway, like many people, we are going to produce healthy, nutritious and safe food, and so are we. What you and I choose to put in the shopping basket when we stand in the store must be up to each of us. In fact, Norwegian shops have a lean sample compared to most European countries. As you know, there are only three people in Norway — one from each of the three major actors Coop, the Norway Group and REMA — who decide what you and I find in the store shelves, but there is another discussion, to which we will probably have plenty of opportunity to come back. Within what we can actually choose from, the Right believes that there must be real freedom of choice. At the moment you agree that you should be allowed to make your own choices, it also demands respect for what you might think is the wrong choice. If you are meat hungry and want meat, whether there is liver pox and turkey ham on the bread roll, meat soup for lunch or a piece of reindeer from Finnmark on Friday evening, then of course it should be quite fine, without being suspicious or being covered with shame. It's also going to be okay regardless of all the phases of life. It is not a public task to force an 87-year-old at the hospital to have a vegetarian day a week. For many it will be alienating, and it will also be an intervention and a restriction of one of the few benefits that may remain in the late phase of life. The right has helped to establish and develop an action plan for better diet. It saw the light of day earlier this year. There are a number of measures to turn the diet into a healthier and more sustainable direction. The consumption of fruit, berries and greens shall be increased, coarse cereal products and fish as well. Healthy diet and meal happiness are the goal. It shall not be reached with whips, but – appropriately – with carrots. Norway has very good dietary councils that are regularly reviewed, as we gain new knowledge. It even looks as if the Right and Government policies work. Meat consumption goes down slightly, fruit, green and berries go up, and so does the placing on the market of protein-rich vegetarian products. This is not something I think of, I have taken this straight from the text of the representative proposal we are discussing today. The proposer believes that we should only have as many livestock as there is a resource base for in Norway. This would result in a dramatic reduction of the current livestock population, if introduced. In addition to making wastelands in the Black Death class, it would also lead to increased imports of meat, because people do not stop eating meat even if it is not from Norway. Then the question is, what in the world is sustainable with this proposal? We are too happy in meat – and I want to end with a quote from John Kleese: If God meant we weren't to eat animals, why in the world did he make them of meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1045	This year, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has called for food alarms and reports to show that we need to transform agricultural production globally, cut meat consumption, reduce food litter and eat more plant-based. Norwegian agricultural policy also needs to be transformed in order to be able to operate a sustainable agriculture where food production is based on Norwegian resources. Today, the North eats 40 pst. more meat than the world average. It is unfortunate for the environment, food safety, public health and animal welfare, but also for self-sufficiency. Norway needs to implement measures to free Norwegian agricultural areas suitable for growing more cereals, fruit and vegetables. The meat we are about to eat in the future should be based more on Norwegian resources. Today's meat production depends entirely on imported feed raw materials. At the same time, Norwegian grasslands are decommissioned. By moving our land use out of the country, we also create a double environmental problem. We're increasing the pressure on the world's rain forests, and we're letting species-rich Norwegian cultural landscapes disappear. With the purchase we get a large-scale centralization and less self-sufficiency. That is why the Green Party is presenting several proposals here today to reverse developments. In the agricultural debate, many people struggle to have two tanks in their heads at once. Increased grazing and reduced meat consumption are possible at the same time. That is about what will be the result if the House agrees with the ten solutions I present here today, as well as the three minority proposals that take account of part of the original proposals of the Green Party. I believe it is particularly important for us in the field of industrial policy to adopt a policy objective that is consistent with the recommendations of the health authorities on meat consumption. If this is combined with wise agricultural policy, we get a higher degree of self-sufficiency and live builders on the purchase. Important instruments are enhanced customs protection of meat, fruit and vegetables and the abolition of VAT on fruit, vegetables and meat substitutes. The socio-economic benefit of following the dietary advice of the Health Directorate is enormous. Unhealthy diets are unevenly distributed, but it still costs the state 154 billion health bills every year. Even if we're not going to go into detail, business interests are not going to dominate the knowledge of the Nordics about food. Price campaigns around Christmas and the barbecue season are examples of this. Then the food chains sell meat far below the purchase price, which leads to losses, which in turn is compensated for by increasing the prices of other goods. With that, I will take up the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1060	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1065	The main task of agriculture is to produce healthy, nutritious and safe food for Norwegian consumers. Individuals must take their own health into account, and evaluate for themselves which choices help to influence the environment and climate from their own point of view. Consumers' choice is the central precursor to both the agricultural planning of their production and the authorities in the formulation of agricultural policy. Food security in Norway is ensured through national production, trade and good resource use at all stages, and by stimulating increased production of goods that people want. The action plan for better diet, drawn up jointly between seven departments, is based on the Norwegian dietary councils and includes, inter alia: the objective of increasing the consumption of vegetables, fruit, berries, coarse cereal products and fish. The Norwegian dietary councils are well documented and regularly changed in line with new knowledge. The figures for real consumption of meat in Norway show a decrease. That means people follow the advice given. There are good opportunities to increase the production of fruit and vegetables in Norway. As a result, the green sector has also been a priority in the last agricultural operations. In addition, an advisory panel has been set up which looks at the possibility of increasing Norwegian production of fruit and vegetables. Over the years, agricultural policy has focused on increasing food production on Norwegian resources. Together with the objective of agriculture across the country, it requires a clear priority in the use of agricultural land, between grasslands and areas suitable for the production of cereals, fruit and vegetables. The best third of the agricultural land we grow is mostly used for cereals, for human food and for animal feed. Growing grain for animal feed is absolutely necessary to exploit the soil resources we have. Norwegian meat production is also based on the fact that we are actually dependent on importing protein raw material, but a lot of research is being done to find protein sources for animal feed from other sources in our country, such as seaweed, seaweed and wood, just to ensure that one does not replace this with soya imported. And we're using our land to graze-- 85 pst. of our sheep graze in mountains and fields. It's the right use of resources. That is why I do not need to change agricultural policy on the basis of what is the UN's sustainability objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1086	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1092	One of the most important climate measures we can implement in the view of the Centre Party is to strengthen customs protection so that we can increase consumption of Norwegian meat, Norwegian fruit Norwegian vegetables, because there is no doubt that these foods, produced in Norway, have a lower greenhouse gas emission than the corresponding imported ones. My question is, in fact, two-part. Will the Council of State know what it will mean for greenhouse gas emissions to increase the Norwegian part, and does the Council of State see the need to strengthen customs protection in order to exploit this potential in terms of reduced greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1097	In terms of both customs protection and imports, this government has been very concerned, especially with meat, because there is climate pressure in Norway much less than the climate pressure from abroad. We know that imports of beef and sheep have fallen in recent years because one has actually been aware of that policy. It gives less climate pressure to produce in your own country. So yes – I am concerned about increasing production in my own country and expanding so that we can sell Norwegian products in our own country, to ensure that we get the lowest and lowest climate pressure. It needs Norwegian agriculture, and it needs the world. The UN has challenged us to use the resources that are in its own country, and then we have to take that responsibility, precisely because of the climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1102	I thank you for your answer. We were in a situation some years ago where we had undercovered the Norwegian product. Now we have a market balance and perhaps even overproduction, at the same time as one has imports. In the climate battle we have to turn all the stones, and then my question is again: will the Council take the initiative that we get a number on the table that shows how much we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we, for example. increases fruit and green by 20 pst. or 30 pst., and if we increase the supply of Norwegian meat by a certain number? Governments are right not to give large new quotas to imports, but there are no increases in customs protection either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1107	I want to start at a slightly different end in the answer. We have concluded a climate agreement with agriculture. Then we have to look at what opportunities we have in our country to produce with the lowest possible climate pressure. At the same time, we are the country that exports most per capita. That means that we are a trading partner, and that someone wants to sell something to us again, and as a trading partner we have to be predictable. But for me, it's important all the way to focus on getting a lower climate footprint, because it's our common responsibility whether we're in agriculture in Norway or internationally. As the facts are now, we can help and reduce, and agriculture can be the solution and not just the challenge, as the representative himself said from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1112	The debate will always be slightly different when it comes to meat. I've made some reflections about it. It is quite true that it is a rather new matter that something that is perceived as so private, some of the closest thing – what we put on the table in front of us, what we serve our children, our culture, the math we have – is politics. It is because it affects self-sufficiency, it affects animal welfare when there is high price pressure in agriculture, and it affects our ability to respond to major needs in the world to produce more food. I really just want the Council of State to reflect a little bit around this that we politicians have a responsibility when our private elections together have such a big impact on the community. The Council of State agrees that the objective of industrial policy is also to pursue health policy objectives and other objectives, such as: for self-sufficiency in Norway, or does the Council of State think that how much meat we put on the table is a purely private matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1117	I have been so lucky to work in Norwegian health care for quite many years and have more experience from there than I have as a politician. The Norwegian people are very concerned about getting knowledge of what's tricked them into putting on the plate to get the best possible counting in their health. I would say that the Norwegian farmer has taken that knowledge into account. That's why we've seen a change. They produce more with fewer animals. They've taken on board that we're going to have a lower fat content. They have taken over a greener shift by producing more fruit and green for just to satisfy what has been the issue of health policy. So yes, those things are related, but it must be people's choice how they prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1122	Then the line chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1129	It is a very important debate The Stortinget has on our meat consumption, so I will also take the proposal SV has promoted in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1134	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1153	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1158	Air pollution in Norwegian cities has long been a serious health problem. We have long had national targets for safer air, and although air quality in Norway has improved overall in recent years, many cities are still struggling with heavily contaminated air several days a year. Bad air has direct consequences for the population. Young people, pregnant women, the elderly and people with diseases such as asthma and cardiovascular diseases are particularly vulnerable to this air pollution. Sometimes air pollution is so severe that it is encouraged that small children and other vulnerable groups stay indoors. I have to say that I am stunning every time I hear these messages on the radio. We ask small kids and vulnerable groups to stay indoors to allow the cars to operate freely with their exhaust gas. It should have been the other way around. It is well documented that air pollution contributes to the death and loss of healthy life years here in Norway too. And it is good to see that an overall committee agrees that it is road traffic that has to take primary responsibility for the harmful air. It's through particulate matter, through abrasion on asphalt, tyres and brakes, we get part of this pollution. Cars with internal combustion engines, especially diesel cars, emit harmful particulate matter, such as oxides of nitrogen, and therefore a joint committee believes that good measures to prevent air pollution, inter alia. are restrictions on cars, lower speed and the development of public transport and pedestrian and cycle routes. I must say that I am pleased that a unanimous committee is so clear that these are important instruments. This was not the case 30 years ago, when the rapporteur of the case, as an activist in Nature and Youth, stood with a gas mask in one of Trondheim's heavily polluted streets and protested against the pollution from car traffic. In addition to road traffic pollution, we know that refuelling with old ovens and long-distance air pollution are also significant sources of pollution. In recent years, several municipalities have introduced different instruments to reduce air pollution, such as environmental shipping limits, restrictions on car traffic, zero-emission zones and maintenance restrictions. These are effective measures. In spite of this, the entire Committee considers that there is a need for much stronger national action. The Committee's disagreement is about the speed with which it is felt that more needs to be done. The impatience is divided differently. I'll bring it up to the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1173	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1178	In Europe, bad air takes up half a million lives every year. In Norway too, many people die prematurely because the air is too poor. It is as case-rapporteur Lars Haltbrecken said in his excellent speech, that there are days in the year when people who have health problems, or young children, are asked to stay indoors. I think, like what Haltbrecken said, that in 2019 is not acceptable in Norway. What is the good thing is that in many places local politicians have done a great job of improving the air for their inhabitants. In Oslo it has been assumed that under the previous city council there were 200,000 people who were hit by bad air, that today there are only 10,000. It is a formidable improvement that shows that local politicians are taking their job seriously. And thanks for that will go to brave politicians who are able to make choices that make the air cleaner, and to people who take responsibility for their local environment. Although there has been an improvement in many places in Norway, we are very close to the target. Today, the Labour Party is voting for several proposals that oblige the government to do more and that give local politicians more tools to do something about it locally. We propose, among other things: that the government has to submit a plan of action to ensure that we do not exceed the national targets. It should really be a matter of course that goals should be achieved, and when they do not, we need more policies that do something about it. We also believe that every year the government must report on the work done. This is one of the most important health challenges we have in Europe. Then we have to expect people and politicians to get an overview of what the picture is. We will also give local politicians the opportunity to have local restrictions on the days when the air is badly polluted. Local politicians have been elected to take care of their citizens. Then it's frustrating to get measurements that show that the air is so harmful to health that all you can do is ask people to be indoors. Unfortunately, it does not seem that any of the proposals promoted by the various opposition parties will be supported by the majority today. The majority of right-wing parties, once again, with their four votes overweight, will say that it's the ones who know best, and that they won't do anything more. With that, I take up proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1193	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has drawn up the proposal he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1198	Air pollution affects people's everyday lives and health; there's no doubt about it, and most of us know someone who has this kind of plague. We also know that people's lives are being shortened, and we know that this is a major public health problem. However, when the centre party does not go into the concrete proposals today, it is a question of whether this type of listing of different types of measures is the best tool for achieving the objective of cleaner air. The centre party is pleased that many municipalities themselves are implementing concrete measures that have led to a significant improvement in air quality in cities, agglomerations and municipalities – measures that are often adapted to local reality. We're probably sceptical about whether there's more national governance that's the way to go, but rather we want to give municipalities more space for action. On the other hand, we agree that there is a problem with different limit values based on different objectives and legislation. Following the tightening of the maximum levels in 2016, efforts have been made to update the knowledge base to see whether the maximum levels should be tightened further. In view of the work under way and not least the need to harmonise the limit values, the Centre Party considers that a case should be submitted to the Stortinget describing the status of the matter and how the different national regulations, targets and advice should be coordinated and harmonised in order to allow air quality to be regulated by a comprehensive regulatory framework and limit values system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1209	The main task of the world is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This takes the Left seriously, and our policy has this as its main objective. That is why we are fighting for this goal in government and in local policy. There is no contradiction between global and local pollution. It's the same source. This is the car that is the main reason why this occurs. We know what to do. We know what's going on. The policy we have pursued shows good results. The left has fought for and received an impact on very effective action. We have a historic commitment to public transport. We have historically clean air in the cities right now and world record in emission-free cars. We have cities with good public transport, we have collective coverage in the cities that have the best transport offer. It's faster, it's cheaper, and it gives good air and fewer traffic accidents. I know Trondheim best. The representative Mr Haltbrecken refers to the previous debate. I have been in this debate for quite many years, and the main source of pollution in Trondheim is the spike decks. It's the spikes that swirl up the suspended dust. As the representative Haltbrecken said, when we get the discussion that yes but we can't move the nursery next to the road that is the most polluted, the answer is that of course we can't. We have to solve the problems. We have to take the challenges, so that we actually don't get that pollution along that traffic year. It is quite clear that the charges for driving with tip decks have helped. It has helped both in Trondheim and in Oslo, which I follow closely in the statistics, and certainly elsewhere as well. In addition, tunnel solutions have been chosen for transit traffic in Oslo. This is a good measure, because then you get the air cleaned before you get up to the inhabitants of the city. I really hope that we can continue with this offensive policy, not least these measures and the charging system. It's clear that it affects the use of tipping tyres, and we have to keep doing it even though there are some batches in this room that seem to have become too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1220	I want to thank the proposer, who is raising an important topic, and that there will be a good debate out of it. But always when you have these point lists from one or more of the opposition parties, it's made so that if you don't vote for all of these points, you're not too intent on getting cleaner city air. We all agree that it's going to be cleaner in the city. So the question is, do you think that such bullet lists, which are repeated indefinitely in the Storting and perhaps especially in our committee, are the best way to get to the bottom of these problems? Let me do a couple of things. In recent years, considerable efforts have been made to improve air quality in cities and agglomerations. Data from the Environment Directorate show that road traffic emissions are falling in all the largest cities in the country and that air quality is better than in many years. We have the historical investment in public transport, where the number of passengers has increased by 21 p.m., which has a significant impact on the air quality of cities. The Environment Directorate is also working on several tools to influence local pollution work in municipalities, and they already have the opportunity to impose sanctions on those municipalities that do not follow up decisions under the pollution regulation on local air quality. Local authorities also have the opportunity to apply for support for action, and it is a well-functioning reward system for municipalities. Several members of the Committee were visiting the Meteorological Institute on 17 October this year. Then we were informed that air quality information will be included in dry.no in a few months. For the public, this is a major step forward, and it shows that the public sector, in cooperation with patient and user organisations, is developing new services and is aware of exploiting policy appropriations according to their intentions. I do not think we should polarise a debate on air quality in cities. I don't think that's necessary. So the question is, are such bullet lists the best way to achieve the goal? There's already a lot of work done to solve this important problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1233	Sophistication causes more people to lose their lives too early in respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases or lung cancer. The National Institute for Public Health has estimated that approx. 1,500 people died prematurely due to air pollution in Norway in 2015. It's as many people as it lives in the entire Folldal municipality. Environmental status.no states that 14 000 healthy years of life were lost in Norway in 2016 due to fine particulate matter. There are as many people as there are today living in Holmestrand municipality. Bad air has direct consequences for the population and public health. Air quality in Norway as a whole has improved somewhat in recent years, but more cities and agglomerations with heavily polluted air are still struggling for several days a year. The Greens believe that we need to do more to improve living conditions for children, pregnant women, the elderly and people with asthma, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and respiratory diseases, which are particularly vulnerable to air pollution. In this case, the entire Committee says that there is a need for stronger national intervention to ensure clean air for all citizens. But no asthmatic children or sick elderly people get better air quality if we do not adopt just stronger national measures — and implement them. The ruling majority, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, neither supports the Green Party's proposals for cleaner air nor proposes its own. It is a disclaimer from a totally unsustainable situation for the lives and health of citizens, and it gives very strong signals that the government parties prioritise car traffic, especially in cities and towns, in front of public health. In 2014, the Environment Directorate, the Road Directorate, the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute recommended tightening the limit values for permitted levels of particulate matter. On a proposal from the Green Party, the government then followed up with changes in 2016. In this connection, Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft said: ‘It has also been decided that further tightening will be considered from 2020 onwards.’;» A premise for the consideration of the Greens' proposals today has been that an updated knowledge base should be provided by the government for which maximum levels for particulate matter should apply from 2020, possibly with a recommendation to amend the maximum levels from 2020 onwards. The deadline for this was postponed until 1 November, but we have not yet seen anything about it. Now it is unclear whether it will happen at all in 2019, and I believe that the climate and environment minister has to clear up in Stortinget here today. The government’s summer meal to improve the air quality in Norway is going down on life and health. The Green Party therefore supports a number of proposals to prevent harmful air in cities and agglomerations in Norway, among others. by lowering the limit values for particulate matter in the pollution regulation from today’s level so as to comply with national environmental objectives and the recommendations of the Public Health Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1253	Air pollution is a serious environmental and health problem. Air pollution, such as nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter, can lead to or exacerbate both respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. It is therefore very gratifying that the air quality in the large cities has improved. Both national and local authorities have worked actively over several years to improve air quality in cities and agglomerations, and measurements now show positive results. Several municipalities have made extensive efforts to improve local air quality. In 2018 it was historically good air quality in Norway. All municipalities that measured air quality remained within nitrogen dioxide limit values. That's the first time since they were put down, 16 years ago. All municipalities also remained within the maximum level for particulate matter in 2018, with the exception of Elverum and Hamar. These municipalities broke the limit value for the first time last year and therefore have to prepare, in accordance with the pollution regulation, an action study to reduce the level of suspended particulate matter by the end of 2020. The government prioritises clean air and has put in place a number of new instruments in cities and agglomerations, and many measures have been implemented both nationally and locally. The Environment Directorate has played an active role in guiding and monitoring the work of municipalities on action plans. These include: develop a new national estimation tool for use in the work of municipalities on action plans, and a new air portal with daily air quality warning has been launched. There is also an ongoing effort to assess both the specific limit values, existing legislation and other instruments. Municipalities are entrusted with the task of pollution authority under Chapter 7 of the pollution regulation on air quality. As part of this work, municipalities shall manage the work on action plans and ensure that the various site owners/pollutants implement the necessary measures. However, the state is an important partner in this work, including: through Enova, such as has supported the provision of shore-side electricity in ports and electric buses in different cities. The Government has also provided funds under the Climate Change Scheme for actions that have contributed to improving air quality, including climate-friendly construction sites, collective hubs with bicycle and electric car parking, and electric goods cars and taxis. Urban growth agreements and incentives are also crucial to improving the quality of the air in cities. Efforts to ensure that all citizens can breathe clean air and cut emissions are often linked. Climatic triggers may also provide cleaner air. We aim to reduce the emissions from the transport sector by 50 pst. by 2030. We now have over 250,000 electric cars, which make up almost 10 pst. of the passenger car park in Norway. Through Enova, we have created a zero-emission fund with a total framework of 1 billion. kr over the two years 2019 and 2020. That's how we step up the commitment to zero-emission technology. It is also a commitment to public transport and rail. This contributes to fewer cars on the roads and cleaner air. Also through the Environment Directorate, the State has several tools to influence local air quality in municipalities. From 1 January 2020, the government also introduces a ban on the use of mineral oil for heating buildings, and we have recently had a consultation ban on the use of mineral oil for construction drying and building heating.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1286	My good colleague from Trondheim and the Parliamentary Party trap, Jon Gunnes, pointed to the serious air pollution caused by the heavy-duty industry in Trondheim. The representative of Gunnes is quite right in saying that it is a serious problem for air in the city – in fact, so serious that in the political environment in Trondheim, the possibility of increasing the annual heavy duty charge is being discussed. It is today that the heavy-duty tyre charge is regulated by a regulation, and the government must therefore give the municipality the opportunity to increase the heavy-duty tyre charge. Therefore, my question to the Council of State: if there is now an enquiry from the municipality of Trondheim that they will be allowed to increase the heavy-duty tyre charge in order to combat harmful air pollution, will the Minister for Climate and Environment ensure that they are allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1291	Now I do not know the specific discussion in Trondheim, but I have been involved in both introducing heavy-duty tyres in Oslo and reintroducing heavy-duty tyres in Oslo – after first getting down on heavy-duty tyres, and then it went up again, and then the fee was reintroduced to combat heavy-duty tyres. In such questions, the goal that must be decisive for what means you need to use, so of course I will listen to what you think locally in Trondheim about what is necessary to get the use of high-pressure tyres down enough, and I am open to look at that question and the changes that would be necessary to achieve the goal of cleaner air.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1296	I thank you for the answer and think it was an uplifting answer. So then we only look forward to such an enquiry possibly coming from Trondheim and from other cities, and that the Council of State then looks at it and gives them – if they want it – the opportunity to increase the fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1301	On these issues, I think it is important that it is a local responsibility, and it also depends on that it is a local initiative. And if such an initiative comes from Trondheim, of course, we have to look at it and evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1306	It turns out that it is possible to agree with the line change. The next replicator is Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1313	Then I can start by agreeing even more, because I would like to congratulate, on behalf of the Stortinget and, in particular, the citizens of Oslo, the Council of State on getting started planning the Eastmark as a national park – it has nothing to do with the matter, but I think it should be said, and I am very happy to say that. To the matter: State Council Elvesuen promised in a letter to the Committee in connection with the examination of this matter an up-to-date knowledge base by 1 November, which is a few days ago, which would provide us with information on the limit values for particulate matter and whether they should be tightened. The background for this is a suggestion we received in 2017, from the Council of State Sundtoft that time. My question is whether the government will update the limit values – tighten them up – for particulate matter from 2020, in line with what has been proposed by the Stortinget for many years, and if not, why not the Council of State Elvesuen has informed the Stortingen about this before dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1320	It is true that the Directorate-General for the Environment, the Directorate-General for the Road, the Directorate for Health and the Institute for Public Health have a task to assess the potential for raising the limit values in the light of technological progress and new knowledge of actions and health effects. It is also true that the deadline here was 1 November, but the agencies themselves have asked to postpone the deadline, so it has now been changed to 1 April 2020. It will then normally be assessed and, based on the content of the assessments, we will of course also consider whether to tighten the limit values.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1327	That was clarifying. We now expect an up-to-date knowledge base by 1 April 2020. This is a case that has been exposed several times, but then it is very important that it comes. And I'm still wondering if the Council of State has the intention of tightening up the requirements for legal participation, or concentration, of particulate matter in cities, i.e. these limit values for suspended particulate matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1332	I can promise that all the agencies involved are really actively working on the assignment, and that is from there the wish for postponement has come. It is pointed out that in 2016 maximum levels for particulate matter were based on a simplified methodology, and now more advanced methods are needed to assess the air pollution situation, including with and without action. Then, not only are you going to propose what are the new limit values, but you're going to look at what we're going to do to achieve them. And of course, we'll look at the advice we get, and follow them up, so that we can secure good air and continue the good development we've had with improved air in Norwegian cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1338	I am very pleased that there is a comprehensive political environment that is occupied with cleaner air in the cities. At the same time, we know that there are strong interests and political priorities in the government to increase car traffic into cities. Therefore, my last question to the Council of State Elvesuen is whether it is such that he also has the support of the rest of the government to put the health of urban people first in such a situation if the updated knowledge base shows that it is necessary to tighten the requirements for particulate matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1343	It's with this government that we've decided that the zero growth target should be fixed. It is with this government – and this majority – that the commitment to public transport has been so strong in the big cities that we have set a target that it is only a zero-emission vehicle to be sold in 2025 that we now have an oil-fire ban in place until next year, and that one has that effort from Enova in return for a conversion to only zero-emission city buses in the big cities. So there are measures that follow that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but that will also provide cleaner air in the big cities. We've also got in place, after a long process, for example. this with shore-side electricity for cruise ships in Bergen, and there are shore-side electricity projects also in several other cities. So we're going to follow this up, and of course, the recordings and the investigation we're going to get, we're going to follow up as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1350	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1369	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1376	Let me start by thanking you for a good cooperation in the committee – which we always have in dealing with all sorts of issues, and which we have also had in this matter. There is no doubt that we are facing a global climate crisis. It has also been written in a note by the majority – the government parties, the Labour Party and the Centre – the last time we dealt with a similar matter, because this matter is largely similar to a proposal from the Green Party, which we discussed before the summer. If the Storting decides that there is a crisis or an emergency in the way you want here, it is a very dramatic step for a parliament to take. Normally, in such cases, there will be a time-limited crisis that poses an immediate risk to life and health, for example. a natural disaster or a war situation. In that case, it is close to thinking of situations described in the Act on Special Counsellors in War, War Danger and Similar Matters, the Emergency Act, where, as a result of the emergency situation, the Government can use special powers and decisions normally taken by the Storting, for example. to make provision for legislative content. We who represent the government parties, and I guess it also applies to other parties that are not going to vote in favour of this proposal, are not willing to remove the powers of the Stortinge. We need a decisive increase in the fight against climate change. We need a big deal that works together. We need a rise that adopts measures to solve the climate problems. So we don't want to deprive Stortinget of powers, which is the consequence of such a proposal. But we agree that it is a global climate crisis. That is why we also repeat that in the comments on the matter we are dealing with now, and refer to the comments we had in the previous case we discussed on this. Then there are some other suggestions here, among other things. a realistic and binding domestic greenhouse gas cut plan of 60 pst. by 2030. The government has already over-achieved the objective that I agree with the EU on: we say at least 45 pst in the Granavolden Declaration. Cut by 2030. Now there will be a comprehensive climate policy for all sectors in Norway. There is something new in Norwegian climate policy. It is the work called Climate Change 2030 – precisely to achieve the 2030 climate targets. What is also new in Norwegian climate policy is that Norway can get sanctions on itself if we do not reach the climate targets. It is also historical in Norwegian and international climate policy contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1389	It was a hysterical funny clip in the TV 2 program The Kingdom’s Røst 12 years ago that Pia Haraldsen was going to explain this with the climate crisis. The feature starts like this: a smoking factory and a sweaty polar bear – these are the pictures I get when I apply for global heating in the TV 2 news archive. Well, that's probably in the paths that we think about when we hear about climate. The ice melts, and the big city air hurts to breathe in because of, among other things. too much and too poor production of goods. It's definitely part of the problem, but smoking factories and climactic polar bears are not isolated phenomena. It's because of external influences and that we live in a society that allows large companies to use natural resources to earn wealth without taking environmental into account. Warmer temperatures and contaminated air are becoming increasingly severe, along with more extreme weather, more instability and more extinction of species. Only in the last year have more depressing reports come from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Intergovernmental Panel and the Intergovernmental Panel, to name a few. Among the facts that are established there, we find a point that says we know about eight million species on Earth, and one million of them are endangered. I even slept through some of the natural sciences, but I have nevertheless come to realize that the diversity of species and ecosystem services are absolutely essential. In Norway, we are happy geographically. Although we are among the largest contributors to climate change, we are – unfairly enough – among the last to know the greatest impacts. However, even in Norway, food safety is already challenging due, among other things, to: flood. Having food is, of course, fundamental things. It is in the position that the majority of the committee will note that declaring a national emergency is a very dramatic step for a Parliament to take. That's it, but there's no argument against doing it. On the contrary, this is the most accurate analysis of the situation. It's a very dramatic situation, which requires radical action and a full conversion of everything, really. The way we've been going up until now, doesn't work for the world. The planet needs both politicians, private businesses and consumers to make good and environmentally friendly choices, but there must never be any doubt that we as politicians have the greatest responsibility. We also put the leads for the rest of the chain. We distribute concessions to companies for even more oil drilling. We have a lack of regulation of the trade in goods that makes it cheaper for consumers to buy new things than to repair what they have. It's not a responsibility we can run away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1404	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1409	Yes, I would like to comment on the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1414	The representative of Solveig Skagvoll Foss has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1419	The man-made climate change is the biggest problem facing the world. Climate change will have a major impact on food production, biodiversity, housing patterns and living conditions worldwide. There is no doubt that we are in a climate crisis. It's a crisis that's been warned by scientists for decades, and it's a long-standing crisis that has consequences for the ecological balance of the earth, which poses a serious threat to the survival of a number of species and to the living conditions of us humans. The latest reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tell us that it's urgent. We're the last generation to solve the crisis. It gives us a responsibility to act now. The reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and not least the huge youth exposure we have seen in the last year, have seriously set the agenda for climate change. It is probably the most important thing that has happened in the fight against climate change since the Paris Agreement. Greta Thunberg's mind in the UN is justified, and the science to which she refers is correct. It's her and future generations' freedom this is all about. If we can get to change quickly enough, what we'll be measuring in the foreseeable future. Even though we are in a global climate crisis, I do not believe that a decision of magnitude declaring the climate crisis a national emergency is the way to go. The crisis is already a fact, and what we need is action. To achieve the Paris Agreement temperature targets, the solution is both comprehensive cooperation across borders and strong emission reductions and migration in all countries, including Norway. Therefore, this government focuses both on international climate cooperation and on national emission reductions. Norway is an active driver of international climate negotiations. Next year, the parties to the Paris Agreement shall notify new nationally determined contributions. Norway has already communicated that we will strengthen our climate target to the UN in 2020, and we are working in a targeted and broad way to make countries more ambitious in climate policy and implement good climate action. The preservation of rainforests is a good example of this. But we must also take responsibility for our own emissions. Fortunately, the arrows are now pointing in the right direction: for the third consecutive year, Norwegian emissions went down. But the pace of the conversion has to rise. Therefore, the government will report a reinforced Norwegian climate change target under the Paris agreement next year. We also have to present a plan to cut emissions in the non-quota sector by 45 pst. compared to 2005 levels. The Environment Directorate is now working with other departments to provide us with an up-to-date professional basis for this plan. To succeed, we need to build on what works in Norwegian climate policy. We need to extend the electric car success to heavier vehicles, shipping and after every aviation. On behalf of the government, Enova has set up a zero-emission business transport fund with a total framework of 1 billion. kr. The Zero Emissions Fund enables Enova to escalate its commitment to zero-emission technology in the commercial transport sector. We have also significantly strengthened the environmental instruments, including Enova. The government recently presented a low-carbon strategy that will give direction to climate policy in the future. In the strategy we warn that we will strengthen the climate target for 2050 to 90–95 pst... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1442	So it's going to be a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1447	The climate challenge is the main challenge facing this major challenge, and probably most of the major ones for many years to come. To do something about the climate challenge, the environmental movement plays a key role. With today's government, we have been used to a sharp attack on the environmental movement of figures from government parties. What's new is that we now also see it from government teams. Last week there was an attack by the climate minister’s colleague Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, who put the environmental movement as a threat to human dignity in line with right-wing extremism. My question to the climate minister is whether he wants to distance himself from the play that Kjell Ingolf Ropstad had last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1452	It is climate change and global warming that is the biggest problem we are facing. The changes it will bring about if we do not reduce emissions are also the biggest challenge to the political systems we have, and ultimately also the greatest threat to human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1458	I think the Council of State will have the opportunity to answer the question, because the question that was asked was whether he would distance himself from the concept practice, and I would ask you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1463	I say that the greatest threat to human dignity is the global warming we have, with the consequences it brings – both how it stresses communities, what changes it will lead to, and how it is ultimately also a threat to human beings and to human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1468	Thank you for a kind of drag, President, for getting answers from the Council of State. We've gotten used to the fact that the Council of State answers quite unkindly, but I choose to interpret him in the best sense, and even though he didn't choose to say it, it sounded like he took a sharp distance from it. I have another question for the Council of State, and it goes on to say that in a number of areas in Stortinget we have annual presentations. We have it, among other things. by the Minister for Gender Equality, who explains the gender equality situation in Norway. We are talking about European policy, and we are talking about development policy. All the time we think the climate challenge is the biggest challenge in our time, does the Minister for Climate Change think it would have been an advantage if the Minister for Climate Change made an annual climate statement to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1475	In the context of the budget, climate legislation provides a separate assessment of climate policy, both with a projection and with what results it will produce. It's given every year. The majority also has the opportunity to make a separate debate on this. This year we have presented our own low-emission strategy as a separate annex, which also provides an opportunity for the Committee, if you want to set this up as a separate discussion. If the Stortinget wants its own debate on climate, I do not at all disagree with the fact that we could have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1484	If we are to be able to resolve the climate crisis, it is incredibly important that we also bring Norwegian society to this – environmental organisations, trade unions, businesses and others. The Government of the Elvessu State Council shall, within a short period of time, deliver a climate plan to the EU. My question is why the Council of State chooses to keep this plan secret and not send it to the Norwegian community for consultation, as is done in other EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1489	Just one question to the replicator: Does this have to do with this matter – the climate crisis as a national emergency?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1494	It has to the greatest extent to do with the climate crisis and how Norway will achieve its climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1499	We're going to put forward a plan for the Storting, and we're going to do that next year. We now have a comprehensive basis in the climate cure, and we come up with a plan to reduce by at least 45 pst. until 2030 for the non-quota sector. Otherwise, Norway is not a member of the EU, i.e. the agreement on joint implementation was only approved in the EU at the end of October and has not yet been adopted in all of Iceland. So this is a separate deal. In this agreement, we have also said on a voluntary basis that we should present a plan for achieving our objectives. It has to be done in a very short time horizon because it has to be sent before 1 January. The EU Member States have had the basis to have a much more comprehensive process for this, as well as the possibility of making a different progress from what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1506	My question to the Council of State is then whether he has examined with the EU the possibility of a short delay in the submission deadline in order to send this matter to a hearing in Norway and get important input from the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1511	Under the agreement, this is not a requirement of which Iceland and Norway are part. There is a plan that we voluntarily agree to deliver. What is important is that we follow the same timetable as EU countries, so that we also deliver the plan before 1 January. This will be simplified – and much more simplified – than what we will bring to the Grand Duchy next year, which is, of course, the big plan for how to achieve our goals in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1516	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1522	Norway and the world are now experiencing a climate crisis in which large areas can gradually become uninhabitable and with enormous extinction of plants and animals as a result. It happens right in front of our eyes and is well documented through, among other things. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Intergovernmental Panel on Nature. 30 years ago, when the climate panel was formed and the first warnings came, we all thought that the climate crisis was a gloomy future scenario for our children and grandchildren. We thought for a long time that we were the last generation that didn't experience what we then called climate change. But we are already experiencing the climate crisis. And it's too kind to mention this as changes, like climate change. Change is something that happens slowly over a long time, which we can easily adapt to. Unfortunately, this is not the climate crisis. Now we are in a situation where man-made greenhouse gas emissions must end if we are to avoid the most disastrous consequences. Therefore, there is a need for an extraordinary effort over the next few years to get out of the emergency situation we are in. It is essential that our top democratic body recognizes that the country is in an emergency situation that requires radical action. We need far greater efforts to tackle the climate crisis than we have seen. We need a new climate settlement that cuts Norwegian emissions vigorously. Our youth needs to see that the national assembly of the country can stand united in the fight against what threatens our – and their – common future. So we're not talking about using the Emergency Act and setting aside ordinary laws, which the majority argue with. We're talking about using democracy for the best of our citizens and our future. I would also like to point out that several of the government parties have participated in adopting similar opinions around the country's county council and local government in the last year. But strawmen are apparently the new thing in Norwegian politics, or strawman argumentation. There is no one in this case who has proposed to deprive Stortinget of any power whatsoever. On the contrary, the opposition with SV in mind has several times proposed to use Stortinget and to cooperate between the parties on the Stortinget on a national ambitious climate settlement that cuts emissions. Unfortunately, we note that this time again and again the government parties have voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1533	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1538	I believe that anyone who has been involved in Norwegian policy for more than a few weeks knows that strawmen are not new in Norwegian political debate. I can mention, for example: The strawman we hear from the left is constantly giving priority to tax cuts for those who already have the most, rather than good welfare services. It's a strawman. Or, as we also hear from the left, there is nothing happening or there is a paralysis in climate policy – it is a strawman. And it comes from representatives of the party of the representative Haltbrecken all the time, and also from the party of the representative Aukrust. But then the representative, Haltbrecken, asks us not to deal with what they are actually proposing in this case, because he says this is not about depriving Stortinget of powers. But that is what they are doing: if Parliament in Norway, the Stortinget, adopts this as it says, the Stortinget will be deprived of powers. And then he brings up that there are some local authorities where the government parties have been very generous in saying that there is a climate crisis. Yes, of course, it's fine, a local government doesn't take powers from Stortinget by adopting it. And then it's this strawman that we others don't believe that it's a global climate crisis, because we choose to write it in notes instead of adopting a proposal that will deprive the Stortinget of powers. If the representative Mr Haltbrecken believes that we should still have a resolution that has all the powers, then he cannot vote in favour of his own proposal today. It's not a strawman. His suggestion and all his argument in the matter, it's a strawman. So maybe I can get help from the president to get an answer to the question of the Socialist Left Party or to the Green Party: what powers do they think it is right that the Storting lose? And if they don't think that's right, why would they vote in favour of a proposal that goes under the Emergency Act in such a way that the Storting can be deprived of powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1547	If the representative Heggelund had heard after I spoke, the answer to his question was in my post. But I can refer to what Right has been on in Oslo City Council not long ago; there was the Right on the following: «Oslo City Council asks national authorities to declare an environmental and climate crisis.» From the debate so far today, we can only state that there is a long way between the Right in Oslo and the Right in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1557	This is starting to get a little comical, because I said that government parties have also adopted this in local government. And then I also said that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Central Party have declared by the Stortinge that it is a global climate crisis. But we're doing it the right way, we're doing it in comments just so you don't want to deprive Stortinget of powers. If the representative Haltbrecken believes that Stortinget should not be deprived of his powers, he cannot vote in favour of his own proposal today, he must also go into our comments, where we say that it is a global climate crisis – together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the other government parties. He doesn't, he's more happy with strawmen – his whole post instead was a strawman.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1562	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1581	It has been repeated a number of times, and I repeat once again that the world's nature and humanity face two major existential challenges, perhaps the greatest in our history: climate change and the loss of natural diversity – the degradation of nature and habitats. Both of these questions are so serious that they have received each of their own UN panel with the world's researchers under them, a whole bunch of them: the climate panel and the nature panel. The background to this interpellation is that I take from the alarming conclusions of the natural panel on how we subdue the earth through degradation, expansion, subdivision, consumption and emissions. The first part of the review is more about criticism of the government as a whole, by the Prime Minister. Eventually it turns against the responsibility of the Council of State Elvestuen. Several reports tell us that the world's populations of birds and mammals are more than halved in a few decades. Insect death has all heard of. One single creature on the Earth is in the process of threatening one million others, says the nature panel. Expansive and intensive use of land, often for agricultural and animal husbandry purposes – a third of the surface of the earth is used for this – crowds wild animals and natural habitats, as it is called. This is a clear fact. In the middle of such a development, I had hoped that the government would take strong steps to stop it, that there was a clear, restrictive attitude to the degradation of nature and an ecological mindset behind all the game management. Unfortunately, we see that this government is going in the opposite direction in several areas. It's sad to see, it's serious to see, and I'll draw out the main points to justify this. The government has taken two clear steps in the wrong direction, and it has to do with which departments, which disciplines, which deal with matters – which make legislative proposals and regulations. First – in its first year of government – the government of Solberg transferred the final treatment of land issues where there is objection, from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, i.e. from the department of Elvestuen, to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs – a serious signal in itself. I've taken this up as a separate interpellation and in other contexts. Of course, along with two-three circulars to County and others asking them to raise fewer objections, this has given more liberal development, degradation and fragmentation of Norwegian nature. The second step taken by the government — without investigations, hearings or any social debate — was to transfer so-called harvestable wildlife resources from the department of Elvesuen to the department of Bollestad. It happened suddenly and completely under the radar, and sail employees in the department and the directorate got a catch and a little shock from this grip. So unprepared was the government’s decision that they hardly knew which species would be passed on, and much less which professionals and departments would follow on the relocation container. Should we really not manage these species from an ecological perspective any longer, as the modern governance principle is, worldwide? So now it was a kind of nutrition department that was going to make laws and regulations for these species. Many who have joined the history of Norwegian game management believe that we are moving backwards in time, at the time before the Ministry of the Environment was established. One thing is the signals and principle of administration, but what has this given? Well, we've begun to see it. In the 2019 budget, the Ministry of Agriculture has established a new mechanism to promote measures for hunting-based open-air life for children and young people. The 2019 allocation is 2.1 million. kr, and a prescription has been sent to the hearing. That there is an LMD that lays down the regulation, underpins the impression that the regulation is not meant to promote better management of our nature, which is under pressure from many sides. One would think that an entry for the training of children and young people should be formulated in an ecological spirit and in an environmental conservation spirit, but no. It's just harvesting, and that's what we're talking about. This consultation and regulatory proposal is also the result of closed negotiations in the agricultural sector and focuses solely on the species as a resource. Obviously, it is, too, but not just a resource at all. SV will make comments and promote proposals for new and further criteria for this support scheme – for harvesting in a broader sense than just hunting, for nature-based tourism, wildlife tourism, photosafari, etc. – in the right committee. But this entry in the budget does not fall under the responsibility of Elvesuen, so I'll leave it. So what's the Council of State Elvesuen and the Ministry of the Environment left, and what's his department doing about game management? Well, proposals for changes to the game regulations have been sent, among other things. This concerns the damage trap chapter. At present, Norway has a list of all 61 mammalian and bird species. I don't think there is any other country in our part of the world that has such a long list of harms in terms of species of fauna that can be shared or killed. Many of those who are concerned with these issues say straight away that they do not believe that any other European nation is in the vicinity of having such a destructive administrative regime as ours. Luckily, the game law was given a vice versa gradually, where all animals are initially at peace, but those that can be hunted or shared are explicitly expressed. Of course, it's good, and it should just be missing, but there's a lot of evidence that we're still at a harvest and hunting stage in this country, and we haven't fully incorporated the modern, knowledge-based and ecological mindset into our game management. At a time when species diversity and individual densities of plant and animal species are being reduced all over the globe, it can be seen that nation-by-country measures are being taken to limit this negative development, such as: the natural panel points to. It had been hoped that Norway had also followed this trend related to the conservation of game species, but the opposite is true in us. The Environment Directorate's proposal for a new game regulation, sent out at the hearing in June of this year, provides for an increase in the number of mammals and birds to be susceptible to harm by the owner, user or rightholder, from 20 to 27 species. The number of species eligible for joint consent from the municipality is increased from 25 to 28 species. So these species are on some kind of potential death list, some kind of death row. It is also strange that a total of five species of red-listed species in our country – erebirds, squirrels, tails, yellow sparrows and hares – should be able to be harmed by decision at municipal level. It is most strange that Norwegian game authorities continue to operate with such a large number of species under the injury concept. The incomprehensibleness of species such as smoke tax, pollination, green skewers, meatmeis, buckwheat, blackfinch, greenfinch and yellow sparrows because they can be regarded as significant pests in economic terms. The Directorate has not provided any evidence that these and several other species represent any significant industrial hazard. The question is: where is the professional basis for shooting stars, which are red-listed, and red-winged, e.g.? What is the professional basis for hunting stocks in decline? That's the question to the Council of State. Then I get to mention a small, but beautiful little thing that's positive in the proposal: that the red throat, England's national bird, this time has been taken out of the list. So it's no longer pests, like the carnivores, the book finch and the blackfinch are. It is a strange arrangement, a strange proposal, and I assume that the Environment Directorate does not live in a political vacuum. An important amendment to the regulation in the consultation proposal is the requirement that the damage should no longer be justified by material economic damage, where appropriate sanitary and health conditions. It is proposed to amend to ‘substantial damage’. I really have to say that ‘substantial damage’ is a concept that is very, very awkward, and that is open to personal interpretation. This applies, for example: cases of a slight intrusion in the lawn, excrements, and for some it may be necessary to define as noise, for example. If the new regulations were not adopted, there would be less protection for many species, no more. The question then is, does the Council of State see the obvious contrast between the good and pronounced written introduction to the Nature Diversity Act and the nature panel's warnings on the one hand and the government's said administrative action on the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1611	First, I would like to comment briefly on some examples of administrative procedures that the representative addresses. In the planning of the area, the letter sent by the Minister of State to all the counties in September 2019 clarified the importance of the involvement of the counties in spatial planning in order to safeguard national and substantial regional considerations and the need to assess the opposition of the county councillors when national and significant regional considerations are being disregarded. The main responsibility for game species lies with me – with the Minister for Climate and Environment. I am responsible for whether or not a species is to be harvested when a species can be harvested and where a species can be harvested. It is true that the Directorate-General for the Environment has consulted on proposals for a new game regulation that also regulates harm to game species. For some species, the proposal imposes stricter requirements, while for some other species the requirements are relaxed. The Environment Directorate now assesses the input from the consultation, and I want to have a dialogue with the Directorate before any changes are adopted. The International Nature Panel presented a very serious report earlier this year. Nature is in danger, and with the very basis of our lives. The state of Norwegian nature is relatively good compared to the global situation. At the same time, we also lose important natural diversity in Norway. And we see that the situation is gradually deteriorating in several areas. I believe that we are taking many proper steps to ensure more nature in Norway. The announcement about natural diversity was submitted in 2015. In practice, the notification is an action plan to address the natural diversity in Norway. The message was reinforced by the Storting process. We have three objectives for natural diversity in Norway, and the message tells us what to do to achieve these objectives. We need to have good conditions in ecosystems, we need to take care of endangered nature, and we need to preserve a range of natural areas that show the breadth of variation. To achieve these objectives, a number of measures were announced in the Communication to address Norwegian natural handicaps. We work widely, and we work actively with these measures. First, we're going to have better nature: We're working on making a more holistic administration of nature. Everything needs to be seen in context, and governance needs to be ecosystem-based. It is good to hear that the representative believes that the work on overall management plans is a good move. Nature must be managed globally across sectors. Uses for power generation, forestry, road and residential construction, outdoor life and species habitats need to be considered in the context. The aim of a more holistic management is to create an important tool for finding the right balance between use and preservation of nature. In addition, we must stop harmful alien species. Such species threaten the natural diversity, and we will shortly present a cross-sectoral action plan to combat harmful alien organisms. Water management plans set ambitious environmental objectives for all water in Norway. We need more water in rivers, and a number of measures are now being implemented in different sectors to achieve these objectives. Among other things, we have stepped up work on audits that will give us more water in the rivers. More water and other measures within, inter alia, agricultural run-off and run-off will make Norwegian watercourses healthier. Second, we're going to have more nature: We can't waste the areas. In the future, we're going to have more nature, not less. It also means that we should repair more nature than we destroy. Nature restoration is important and can bring more socio-economic benefits. Old ditches include: closed in a number of restoration projects in bogs and other wetlands in recent years. Myra is a species-rich and valuable natural environment with great significance for both natural diversity and climate. The government proposes to strengthen restoration measures in water by 19 million. kr in the 2020 budget. This is in line with the point in the Granavolden platform to strengthen Norwegian water management and follow the water regulations. Restoration measures will help to restore important habitats for aquatic species. The restoration of rivers and streams will also be positive for leisure and recreation. This government has also doubled the number of selected cultural landscapes in agriculture, so that by 2020 we will have 46 such areas that we cut and take care of for the future. Thirdly, we must save the species: The appropriations for classical nature protection have been increased under this government. In the 2020 budget, we have, among other things: proposed to increase the allocation to endangered nature by 18 million. kr. And in addition, we're proposing to spend about 45 million dollars. DKK for grants to preserve endangered species and habitat types. This will help us to take much more active action for the species and nature types that need it the most. Such measures may, for example: include care, restoration and removal of foreign harmful species. We also assess the use of the instruments of priority nature and selected habitat types under the Nature Diversity Act in addition to other targeted instruments of endangered nature. This, together with care and other measures, should improve the status of Norway’s most threatened species of responsibility and threatened habitat types. We are also in the process of sending a proposal for a quality standard for wild fauna and flora to be consulted. The standard will measure the state of the wild areas. At the same time, it will provide knowledge of what is the cause of possible bad condition, and what we can do to improve the condition. 2019 is the International Year of Wilderness. We're spending money on a new gene bank for the salmon fish stocks in Hardanger and a new national wildax centre, while continuing to fight the gyroparasite and lime streams hit by acidification. I myself took part in marking the report of the Rauma watercourse a few weeks ago. This is also an important step towards removing the gyroparasite from Norway. We are strengthening our efforts against illegal salmon fishing and are proposing an increase of 5 million. to this end in the 2020 budget. We're going to make an action plan for wild breeds. The plan shall show why the state of many salmon populations is not good enough. At the same time, the plan will present measures that can improve the state. We follow up the strategy for wild pollinating insects with an action plan for pollinating insects. All relevant sectors are involved. These include: improving insect habitats and implementing a new insect monitoring programme from 2020. Fourth, we need to protect more of everything: We must protect the most important nature. We've come a long way here, but we're not quite in the finish line. The Environment Directorate has recommended where there is a need to protect new areas. Now we see where we're going to start protective processes. We also have to implement 10 pst. forest protection. We're doing this through voluntary forest protection. Almost 5 pst. the forest is currently protected. National parks are in many ways Norway’s national taxes. We are now starting a protection planning process for the east, and we are also going to consider supplementing the national park plan. Fifthly, we are going to have a paris agreement by nature: The nature panel report shows that there are major global challenges. The loss of natural diversity is increasing and will have serious consequences for the whole world. Taking care of nature is also essential for us to achieve the climate goals we have set ourselves. Nature-based solutions are an important instrument for both nature and climate. Our economy is also completely dependent on nature and well-functioning ecosystems. All countries need to do more and commit themselves together to solving the global problem. The world’s country will meet in China in October 2020 to agree on measures to reverse the negative trend we are facing. I'm going to work to make it work. Sixthly, we need to stop environmental crime: Environmental crime is a serious and growing problem with major negative impacts on natural diversity and climate. The government is therefore working on a major environmental crime report. The Communication will contain a comprehensive policy to strengthen the response to environmental crime both nationally and internationally. The Storing Communication will provide the basis for long-term follow-up work across different sectors. We will never finish taking care of Norwegian natural diversity. I am also concerned about protecting our ecosystems, but I do not agree that the government is taking action that goes wrong. I actually mean the opposite, that the best thing for nature and our society is that we continue the systematic work that we've started. I am convinced that this will bring good results over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1682	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Much of what the Council of State is rambling up, I fully agree. These are good simple measures, but very often they are too small. I react a little when the council says that it is he who defines which species are harvestable. Then it is probably also the state councils that have defined which species were harvestable to be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the first instance. Is it really the case that the Council of State, Elvestuen – this Minister for the Environment – proposed that the harvested game resources should be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? That's a very specific question. Otherwise, it is clear that he could also have rammed up a whole lot of themes, a lot of things, where things have gone wrong. Of course, the Council of State doesn't do exactly that, but I can help him a little bit. I record that we are still spreading unfathomable amounts of lead in nature. I know that the Council of State personally and as a Left-Man probably has a slightly different view than the government in this matter, but I do not see that the Council of State has taken any action that makes that at least Norway takes this problem seriously, despite the fact that there has been a lot of new knowledge in this area. I know that things are happening in Europe, in the EU, and Norway will certainly follow suit. But we could have taken a lot of action before, and we haven't. It's still the way we hunt species in the spring and in the summer, a strange affair, so it's not being caught around. I can mention that we still have predatory populations here in the country that are completely at the limit of what can be called – yes, at least they are not viable populations, and at least not without the help of Sweden. I can mention that we still have shot premiums that are not professionally based here in the country. You'd think it was museum-like, that it was at the museum these shot premiums were. But no, we actually have it yet, there's no grip there either. So I guess I might be able to mention that a good part of our fjords, that is. at least two, mentioned quite often here in the hall, are used as a landfill for mining sludge, i.e. as a kind of waste site. We also see that fish farming, salmon farming, is in free growth without special restrictions and ecological thinking and without particular concern for wild breeds. I'm going to come back to some other things that have clear relevance to the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1699	There is no doubt that responsibility for the species and also responsibility for hunting game, the overall responsibility, lies with the Ministry of Climate and Environment. And then there's a borderline of when the hunt itself is, and the execution of it at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. But there is no doubt about the main responsibility in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. In my post I also addressed the individual objections raised by the representative. With regard to game management, there is a proposal from the Environment Directorate out to be consulted. It's important. It is only professionally justified, and then you have to see what the decisions will finally be. With regard to the responsibilities of the State, I state that there is no doubt that if there are national values that are threatened, the State will object, as he has done in the past. What I disagree with the representative is that there is a general deterioration in Norwegian nature, and that we do not have enough initiative in the various areas, based on the nature diversity announcement and also the instruments that we have in the Nature Diversity Act. As I mentioned in my article, there are many initiatives: against endangered species, landscape types and selected cultural landscapes that we have in agriculture. We use the tools we have and develop against which there should be protection areas – I mentioned several processes that are going on. At the same time, we need better, holistic, ecosystem-based management, not only of our marine areas, but also of countries in Norway. We need to develop this, and we need to do what is necessary in Norway. At the same time, we also need to take greater international responsibility because nature-based solutions are absolutely necessary to combat the global warming and the climate crisis that the world is experiencing – there may be as much as 30 pst. reduction, and we're going to have to have that by 2030. But there is also a need to establish a new agreement on the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity in China until next year. There we have a position where we want to use everything we can to make sure it gets a result that the world needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1718	Norway has a special responsibility to take care of the wild. We are the country in Europe that still has living wild reindeer tribes. In earlier times, the wild rain went much further south than it does today, but because of the expansion and intervention up through history, it has been pushed into ever smaller areas. Here again in Norway, we see that wild rain has to take over with ever smaller areas, despite the fact that in Europe we have a special responsibility for this species. Over the past five years, 856 new recreational buildings have been built in the wilderness areas. The wild areas have proved to be attractive exit points, and it goes without saying that cabins in or near such areas bring increasing pressure on the wild train. As of 1 January 2019, there were about 4.5 million leisure buildings in Norway. Of these, 24 000, or 5 pst., were listed in the last five-year period. Today there are almost 20,000 cabins in the wilderness areas. We saw earlier this year that a decision by the municipal minister on the development of an alpine village in Eidfjord City triggered protests from the county council in Hordaland because the expansion came into conflict with the national concern to take care of the wild rain, for this was an extension that would affect the wild rain areas. I choose to believe that if the Solberg government had not moved the plan department from the Climate and Environment Ministry to the Municipal Ministry in 2013, today's State Council, Ola Elvestuen, would stop this expansion. Today's Minister for Climate and Environment has also told the media that the Planning Department, which was previously in the Ministry of Environment and which was an important reason for the Ministry of Environment's establishment in 1972, should continue to be there. My challenge to the Council of State is twofold. We see, as I said at the beginning of my post, that cabins are still being built in the wilderness areas – 856 new leisure buildings in the last five years. What will the Council of State, with the highest responsibility for the diversity of species in Norway, do to secure the areas of the wild reindeer against this type of residential building in the future? And will the Council of State continue to work to ensure that the Planning Department, which controls land use in Norway, returns to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, where it belongs, and where he himself believes it should lie?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1731	I have tried to sketch out the areas where nature management and game management have gone wrong – the two serious grips. As I said, there's a lot of simple things, there's a lot of good intentions, and there's also a lot of old-fashioned posts on the state budget going the right way. However, overall, there is a liberalisation of development that has taken place, and there has also been a misappropriation in the field of game management in terms of the distribution of responsibilities in the ministries. I understand very easily that it is not so good to be Minister for Climate and Environment, the dispute between the Minister for Oil and Energy, the Minister for Municipal Affairs, the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Transport. But if we are to demand some honesty, and perhaps a tab of liberality in the use of solar parliamentarianism, please, we must say that so that the Council of State could have flagged its own vision – if the Left continues to call itself an environmental party – in areas where the battle is partly lost, where the Progress Party has won, instead of defending the decisions that have been taken in the wrong direction. If I'm still going to be honest, as I tend to be, we have three environmental parties on Stortinget, and they flag them. And whatever blocks it must be right to say that this is a dilemma that an environmental minister will face, between these industrial interests and the environmental and climate interests. But an honesty would be that you can say that OK, some blows are lost. And I see that in the two important matters, with the division of responsibilities between departments, the Minister for the Environment has lost. I must say that the main intention of this interpellation is, in particular, the liberalisation of development and degradation that goes beyond Norwegian nature and cultivated land, and which is in a way a reflection of what the Natural Panel under the flag of the United Nations has pointed out and documented. We are going in the wrong direction, and the Environment Council has of course its responsibility, but I understand that this job is heavy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1742	It is not difficult for me to say that I believe that the Planning Department should be in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I mean that all the time, in Stortinget, too, but it's not part of the consensus that we came to neither on Jeleua nor on Granavolden, and I respect that. I would like to point out that the Storting has made exactly the same change, just to transfer this responsibility to the municipal committee, while at the same time shifting the interests of cultural memory to the cultural committee, so that the representatives and the interpellant have an opportunity to change from here on as well. Then there's also talk of mistletoe, and the main thing now is to put in place a quality standard for wildrein and then follow it up with an action plan, to get a better overview of what the actual state is, what the needs are, and what the measures we need to implement. But with regard to what is now being done, I hope that the representative, who referred to an extension decision, will also notice that at the same time a decision was taken on the Ringebu mountain, where, for the sake of the wild train, no authorisation was granted for recreational purposes, and in an area where the wild reindeer tribe is even more vulnerable than that on Hardangervidda. I must also say that, as the Minister for Climate and Environment, I, like others, have to deal with the big business decisions, and when we look at the predatory game management in Norway, the framework is laid on the Stortinget. This is where the stock targets lie, but this is to be managed at the same time under the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. But the constraint that the interpellant highlighted is the decision of the Storting, and of course I have to deal with them. It no longer lasts to stop what is a destruction of nature – in the future we must have more nature. It's restoration, and we also need to establish, develop and secure both the species and the natural diversity that we have. On my part, too, on the part of the government, we have many initiatives that we have put forward. Then I would say that it is not always the opposition from Stortinget that you don't think we go far enough. For example, in the case of the ban on the breeding of bogs, there were two parties voting against, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. And in many of these proposals, the opposition on both sides of the Stortinget, which emphasizes that there may also be a problem here for the interpellant and his partners in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1755	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1774	It is always interesting to discuss new ways of solving tasks, especially if one suggests that one profession be given more responsibility for something that is left to another. Thus, I have not been surprised by the massive feedback I have received after pointing out that opticians may have more responsibility for follow-up of eye health in Norway. Opticians are well-trained personnel with a good knowledge of the function of the eye and not least the correction of visual defects. However, they have some gap in educational background, and it is important to take this discussion further. Opticians look mainly at fresh eyes and have less experience with eye disease. They know well what is a fresh eye, and already today opticians send patients with signs of eye disease to the specialist. A normal optician looks at an average of six clients a day, and usually one patient per week is referred to with suspicion of disease. Eye doctors look between 15 and 25 patients each day, and then most of the eyes are ill, as one likes to be referred to eye care by other types of health professionals. Concerns have been expressed by medical teams about wild screening in the optics industry, which can generate false positives and burden healthcare with unnecessary references. For many referrals, there is a challenge in several parts of healthcare, and it is not just in the eye area. This is something we need to take seriously in the further work on the field of vision. One must of course listen to the eye doctors, and I would like to thank you for a number of constructive recordings. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that I have not been asked to remove the primary responsibility for patients' eye health. I have also not said that they should be relieved of tasks, but I have pointed out possible other ways of solving problems. I want to raise the debate on how to meet the challenges of the future in healthcare – and right now in the field of eye health. In this context, it is obvious that opticians can play a greater role. It is based on experience we already have from several places in the country. Last night we saw in the news of the NRK a good example where an optician on Kongsberg guided a customer through an eye doctor in Trondheim, using telemedicine. It's just this kind of example I think it might be necessary in the future. As the population grows older, more challenges will arise with the sensory apparatus — both hearing and vision. For the vast majority of people, impaired vision and hearing are part of getting old. We know that people live longer, and we also see a distribution of bias geographically. We have a younger population in central districts than in districts. This means that relatively more people in the districts will face challenges of vision, and they have a longer route to get help. At the same time, we know that in some places, there are challenges in recruiting qualified personnel. Another trend we see is that more and more people get diabetes. This is a patient group that has a particular need for follow-up of the eyes as impaired vision is one of many unfortunate aspects of poorly regulated diabetes. Only six out of ten diabetic patients get the follow-up of the eyes they're going to have. It is an unsustainable situation that I expect the Council of State to have got along and take it seriously. Both gray and green star are diseases that we see more often the older people get, and when we know that more and more people get older, you don't need to be a big fortune teller to see that there will be more eye diagnosis in the future. The older one gets, the more problems with vision and hearing – it's that simple. Some of these are diseases that need to be treated medically. In my political function, I'm concerned with patients' best interests, and if we see another organisation or better responsibilities giving patients a simpler everyday life, I'm always willing to discuss it and make any changes. Norway has a good coverage of opticians throughout the country. Most live closer to an optic than an eye department, and many challenges can be identified and solved by opticians. As I said, opticians are well qualified and work with visual examinations and correction of abnormalities. What we have seen is that the standard has increased, and that the equipment has become more modern and easier to connect to externally, as eye doctors in another city. If opticians are given greater responsibility for eye health, the Nordics will have easier access to the necessary controls in several places in the country. That's the question I've dared to ask here: how can we take it as a starting point and get better access for people around the country? Before we make any changes, we have to discuss whether it makes sense for opticians to get this. I believe there are areas where this is a solution, and there are already examples of good cooperation between opticians and eye departments. Some of this might be worth building on. With regard to the feedback I have received, it is interesting that it has been officially critical, but that positive feedback has also come from eye doctors that some of these projects are positive, such as: what we've seen in Harstad, and what we saw yesterday in Kongsberg. Similarly, it is a well-known matter that most fast doctors have a too busy everyday life. The decision-maker also has tasks in the field of eye health that are not always followed up as closely, for example. for patients with diabetes. Several examples have been highlighted in the debate on the role of opticians in the field of public health. It may not be that we from the Storting should determine the details of how healthcare is supposed to handle its tasks, but to travel than the debate is in place. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Health's views on how we can facilitate a simpler everyday life for people with eye disease or the need for eye control – without jeopardising patient safety. One thing is certain: with what meets demographic challenges, we have to dare to think differently both here and in other parts of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1805	Several people will experience visual and hearing loss as the population age. The Government considers different measures to improve the service provision of people with reduced vision and hearing. I agree with the grounds for the interpellation and will take the initiative to investigate how best to use the competences of opticians. In 2018, the Health Directorate was commissioned to investigate the organisation of the offer to people with sensory impairments. Work was divided into two parts due to the scale of the task. The first part — an investigation into the organisation of hearing provision — will be completed by the beginning of 2020. The Directorate for Health will then be given a similar investigative mission on the offer in the field of public health. Today’s interpellation concerns the potential contribution of opticians, but Stensland’s question raises important issues relating to several groups of health professionals in many disciplines. The population is getting older, and we're becoming less active. There is generally too wide a variation in the organisation of the offer, in waiting time, in the quality of the services offered, and in the effective use of available competences. We need to see if these tasks can be carried out in new ways, and whether health professionals can have other tasks than today. How opticians’ competence and capacity can be better used in the work for better eye health is part of this. In the patient’s healthcare service, we need to work smarter and differently, and we need to involve patients and employees in ways other than today. The assessment of who will carry out the tasks must be based on professional experience, the development of professional training and technological development in the various disciplines. The starting point must be the quality of services, the skills needed, and, in particular, the needs of patients. If we are to succeed in reducing the variation in supply and providing good quality services in the future, we need to address the challenges related to the lack of health professionals. We must also dare to think again in the way we organize and use health professionals. We need to apply measures that contribute to the effective use of highly skilled and long-term education. Even if we do this, the need for staffing in the healthcare system will increase considerably. As we train more, we also need to change working methods and division of tasks, and we need to be careful to use the right skills in the right place. Technology development offers opportunities to change how we use our personnel, and we need to organise ourselves to implement technological solutions that are labour-saving and promote health and well-being. Optics exist throughout the country, and they have important functions for people with impaired vision. Opticists use visual examinations to advise on correct glasses or contact lenses, and they refer to the eyepiece if they see signs of disease. We need to examine whether opticians' skills can be used better than they do today. There are some opticians in the specialist health service, but by far the majority work in private optics stores — that is, in a free market without public funding and connection. People with diabetes are a large group of patients in health care. Patients shall have regular eye-bottom examinations to detect diabetic eye disease in time. If the disease is detected in time, patients may be treated to prevent unnecessary loss of vision and blindness. As part of the work on the National Diabetes Plan 2017–2021, the Directorate-General for Health recommended a programme for regular retinal examinations to prevent diabetic eye damage. In 2019, health regions were commissioned to implement this programme in health businesses. This was done as a follow-up to the diabetes plan and in order to systematically follow national professional guidelines for patients with diabetes. The programme is based on division of tasks between permanent practitioners and eye doctors in hospitals and specialist practice. At the same time, they shall also use the competence of eye nurses, opticians and other personnel groups with relevant competence. Health Nord carries out pilot projects involving both eye doctors, opticians and eye nurses. According to the Health Directorate’s assessment, opticians should have a place in the professional team working with diabetic patients. In the pilot project in Health Nord, the optician takes pictures of the retina, while an eye-catcher interprets the images and maintains follow-up. In Harstad, opticians and caregivers cooperate on the follow-up of diabetic patients. Cooperation started in 2010, and the optician has more tasks than taking pictures, including: assesses the optics to a greater extent if the images show signs of disease. Children may also suffer from loss of vision and eye disease. The Health Directorate has recently revised the section on national professional guidance for the examination of children’s vision, hearing and language. The Directorate recommends inter alia: to maintain current practice of referring children over the age of five to a health centre or to an orthoptist. If the health centre suspects eye disease or any other disease, the child shall be referred to the specialist health service. Norway’s Optician Association and Optician Training at the University of South East Norway have participated in the work on the guidelines. A draft of technical recommendations has been sent at the hearing with the consultation deadline in January 2020. As mentioned above, I would like to take the initiative to investigate how opticians' skills can be used to a greater extent than today. It would be appropriate to link such an investigation to the work on the loss of sense that the government has already started. The investigation on the organisation of the offer in the field of public health shall focus on the quality of patient treatment and the good use of competences. It shall include, inter alia: review funding challenges, including the use of tariffs and equity, addressed by the Norwegian Optician Federation. The use of ICT solutions is another important issue that needs to be addressed by the investigation. Optics are authorised health professionals and need to record the necessary information about the patient and health care. They shall also have safe solutions to store images and other data. The investigation needs to assess solutions for secure digital communication with patients, health centres, permanent doctors and hospitals. The competence requirements to be set for different eye examinations and the competence to assess the findings of such studies must also be investigated. The eye health programme for diabetic patients and the Health Directorate’s study of sensory loss will assess new possibilities for using opticians’ competences. The assessments must include financing the work of opticians, record-keeping documentation and safe communication of patient information. The ongoing investigations will provide a good basis for decisions on the role of opticians in the future supply of eye health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1840	I would like to thank the Council of State for a complementary response, which shows that this is a serious issue and that a worker is working with the different therapeutic areas, for example. diabetes, which is very important. As this debate has roamed the media around, I've been asked why I'm so busy with opticians. My answer to that is that I am not particularly concerned with opticians. I'm not so concerned with eye doctors either; what I'm concerned about are patients – patients who need help, patients who get visual damage because they don't get help in time, and patients who aren't being properly followed up. My only objective in terms of eye health is better services for those who need it. And if we can use our skills better in the different disciplines, I'm willing to look at it. If we base what the state council here says, this is done in the best possible way with a good job in both the directorate and department. I look forward to the further development of this. I am also pleased with the signals that you have your own work on the sensory apparatus, which most people take for granted until it starts to fail. It is a well-known fact that both sight and hearing are an important basis for quality of life. One important reason for falling injuries is just that you have a lack of vision, and we know that those who fall, like, can break your lower neck or something else. It may be the beginning of hospitalization, and many never get out of bed once they have fallen and injured themselves. Thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1851	Thank you for the answer from the interpellant. I fully agree that the most important thing is to start with what is good for patients. We then need to ensure both proximity and availability of the offer. We know that we are facing a large increase in the number of older people in the future, and with old age, sensory loss, like loss of vision and hearing loss. This means that this will be a growing challenge for our healthcare system to solve in the future. Then we have to find the best solutions for patients. Then I am sure that the representative is also concerned about another thing, namely that we are going to have sustainable services in the future. Just finding new ways to solve these problems is an important part of it. The competences of opticians exist throughout the country, including in the smaller areas, where we know that there is not least a greater proportion of older people. Making sure that they get good help where they live, and in a way that makes us use society's resources wisely, is also an important part of creating a sustainable welfare society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1858	It's going to be intimate, this -- this room gives me the opportunity to brag uninhibited by a government party colleague without any danger of being contradicted. But it must be allowed to come with you a little bit. The issue raised by the representative of Stensland is very good. It goes right into the heart of a kind of perspective message for the health care system in many ways. There are professional groups other than traditional doctors and nurses, which play a very important role. The opticians go into it. It is important to look at other occupational groups when discussing the health service of the future. Then I would like to remind you – and it probably remembers both the Council of State and the representative – that in the Granavolden platform we have a heading there, among other things. stands ‘a sustainable welfare society’. It also took up the council. I want to focus on sustainability. Stensland's intention with the interpellation is not doubtful – on the contrary: I think it is very timely, and it is good with an investigation on this issue. But the eye doctor's reaction to this is that the role of opticians in many ways can be cost-effective, and it is interesting to get involved in an investigation: To what extent can we imagine an overdiagnosis, that opticians who have large and expensive devices diagnose to a greater extent – had I almost said – than is desirable, and refer to ophthalmologists when they themselves are not able to interpret the results of the study, a study that the eye doctor could initially have said was unnecessary? It reminds me that today we have someone who has called for a closer look at the 'vi-vil-ha-MR society', that is, a situation where a patient comes to the board and says he has problems with a hip, on which the board prescribes physiotherapy and exercise. So the patient answers that ‘yes, but I want MR’, on which the doctor says ‘yes, but listen, I have 40 years of experience with what you’re suffering from, and I know what you need — sauna’, on which the patient swaps and probably gets MR with someone else. This is cost drive, and it's obvious that some of the same things can happen when we let other occupational groups in. A visual survey of an optics chain — in fact, a low-cost optics chain — costs NOK 645, while regulars today pay NOK 240 if you are looking for a specialist in general medicine. This is a problem I think it is worth addressing, and I know that the Medical Association is concerned about. But cooperation, which was really the core of Stensland's articles, I'm of course for. And in this is the significant value of interpellant interpellant interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1873	I would like to thank my dear colleague Grimstad, who is usually close to the answer – at least at the heart of what is being discussed. In order to bring a little bit of paint into the debate, or Artemisia absinthium, which my team chooses to call it, and this is important: I also raised objections in my post. It's not that we can just let this go. In this case, with overdiagnosis, on which the representative Grimstad was in, I took up wild screening, and that is a challenge. The Nordics are the most pervasive people in Europe. There is no country where more MR and X-rays are taken. We also have very large blood samples. We must not get there that we release this completely freely. In its answer, the Council of State is very clear that this should be carefully investigated, and that is important. It's not like we're going to press a button, and then we just transfer the service from the doctors to the opticians – that's not what I'm after. And we don't want the MR community. I don't think anyone wants it. What I think we want is a society where we prevent unnecessary health damage. That is the very objective of health policy. It is in the light of what we have to interpret this debate, namely to ensure that people do not get unnecessarily sick because they do not get the control and follow-up they are going to have. Then it is brought up that it costs 645 kroner at a cheap chain to get examinations and 240 kroner at a regular doctor. It's at best to seduce the people. It's like when the decision takes NOK 240 from the patient, he also takes a little away from the community. 240 kroner is just the proportion, so the cost of going to the firm is significantly higher than what is referred to. But for the patient, that's right. People with eye problems who are going to study and are under investigation and follow-up after surgery, for example, are usually patients who look poor. That means that it's not always just the patient who's going to go to a department in another city or other place, it's the patient and a relative. Very often, a son, a daughter, a mother, or a father would like to follow those who have problems with their eyesight. So this doesn't just apply to the patient, it also applies to relatives. I think it is important to continue working on this for the benefit of both patients and relatives in Norway. Thank you for a nice debate for those who wanted to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1890	Although this was a short debate, I think it highlighted some of the challenges posed by the interpellation. I think we agree on what is desirable goal. So there are some challenges, and that's exactly why we're going to figure this out, so we're doing it in a proper way. We are so lucky that we have already established pilots in this area from which we can gain experience in ways from which one can achieve good professional cooperation between opticians and eye doctors. Although this was a debate between close friends in politics, I hope it was not too nearsighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1897	The size pauses until voting time. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1914	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1926	During the debate, Mr Tvedt Solberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make concrete proposals and a timetable for all Norwegian schools to become dyslexic with a focus on specific learning difficulties, so that all students receive proper help.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1961	Case No. 9 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the law decision 5. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e1975	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to examine and promote the necessary proposals to ban commercial schooling, through new forms of organisation that facilitates non-profit activities and at the same time ensure transparency in the use of schools’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2005	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to allow approved private primary and secondary schools to be included in a municipal/communal schooling plan. Where there is a need for a reduction in the number of school places as a result of student development, the reduction in the total number of student places should not weaken public school provision.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2022	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to reduce the number of approved private student places in a municipality or county if the situation is such that the quality of the overall public school offer is threatened.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2039	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that municipalities and county councils are given full authority over the school structure, so that public school provision is taken into account in the creation and expansion of private school services.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2057	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new forms of organisation to operate private schools that facilitate non-profit activities while ensuring public transparency in the use of public funds.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the law for private schools in order to ensure that the intention that all state aid should benefit students and students is better cared for than at present. Such review shall aim at reducing the need for controls, imposing more stringent penalties for breaches of the rules and preventing the resale of State-aided schools and colleges from obtaining private profits from school operations.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2097	President, I couldn't vote, it didn't come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2102	As several of the representatives have obviously not received the vote, we will resume voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2114	Case No. 3 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2126	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-13, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 11, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to increase the VAT on meat from 15 % to 20 %, with the exception of organic meat and meat production where the feed fraction does not exceed 10 % of the feed measured in energy.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 1 of the Sale of Goods Act in order to extend its purpose to take account of health and the environment.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the target price of cereals without an increase in the price reduction for power feed, in order to stimulate more sustainable animal husbandry, with less use of power feed, and more use of roughage and pasture.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2165	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 and 8-10, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to eliminate VAT on fruit and vegetables.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the removal of VAT on vegetable meat substitutes.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 11 of the Sale of Goods Act so that the proportion of funds transferred to the Information Offices via the Turnover Council is not bound by the type of product from which the fees are levied.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce requirements for non-nutritional education in food and health at school in order to avoid excessive influence of business interests on children’s knowledge of food.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to strengthen customs protection for meat, with a view to reducing imports of beef and veal in particular.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2205	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased priority to be given to aid for the set-aside of the agricultural agreement.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased support from the Information Offices for cereals, fruit and vegetables to stimulate increased demand for Norwegian-produced vegetable food.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2229	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The size calls on the government to come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a numerical target for a reduction in meat consumption in Norway, at least in line with the recommendations of the health authorities, with proposals for measures to achieve the objective. The aim of the plan shall be to increase the consumption of fruit and vegetables on the basis of Norwegian land resources and to increase the level of self-sufficiency as a result of the measures. 2nd@item: inlistbox The majority calls on the government in the next debate under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement to make greater use of the space for action in order to strengthen customs protection and thus ensure that the agreement is in line with Norwegian agricultural policy. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government is asking for proposals for a change from a dollar to a percentage duty for fruits and vegetables that can be grown in Norway, as well as for potatoes. 4th@item: inlistbox The size calls on the government in forthcoming agricultural negotiations to provide an offer that reduces support for ammonia and contributes to increased profitability in the production of cereals, oil and legumes, fruit and vegetables, pastures and the use of roughage. 5th@item: inlistbox The government is asking for proposals to ban price campaigns on meat involving the sale of meat with losses. Food which is close to date shall be exempted from the prohibition. 6th@item: inlistbox The majority asks the government to introduce a requirement that public canteens should serve only vegetarian food at least one day a week and always have a fully-fledged vegetarian alternative.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2264	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case showing the climate impact of increasing the proportion of meat, fruit and vegetables produced in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal for enhanced customs protection for meat, fruit and vegetables produced in Norway in order to provide Norwegian jobs and reduce food production emissions.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2295	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2314	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 5, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 6-12, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reduce the normal speed limit in densely populated areas from the current 50 km/h to 40 km/h and to 30 km/h in mixed traffic and around schools and kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2341	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–9, 11 and 12, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking to lower the maximum level of particulate matter in the pollution regulation from today’s level in order to comply with national environmental objectives: a. the annual limit value for PM10 is reduced to 20 μg/m 3. b. the annual limit value for PM2,5 is reduced to 8 μg/m 3. ‘... Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to impose penalties on municipalities that exceed the air quality limit in the pollution regulation.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to put in place a reward system for municipalities implementing measures to improve air quality.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose a national aid scheme for private individuals in areas with air pollution problems that will replace its old wood stoves with new clean furnaces. The scheme should give priority to low-income households.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and come back to the Storting with concrete proposals to use environmental limits to a greater extent in and around Norwegian cities and agglomerations, in order to achieve social benefits in terms of better health and reduced fuel consumption, particulate matter and exhaust emissions, as well as changes in queue, noise and accidents.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for increased planting along highways in and around major Norwegian cities, with the aim of reducing air pollution and road traffic noise.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2396	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case describing the status of air quality regulation in cities and agglomerations and specifying in concrete terms how the pollution regulation, the recommendations of the Public Health Institute and the National Environmental Councils can be coordinated and harmonised in order to regulate air quality in cities and agglomerations on the basis of an overall regulatory framework and limit values system.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2413	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. ‘The government is asking the government to propose to authorise municipalities to impose restrictions on refuelling on heavily contaminated days. The restrictions must be capable of distinguishing between pure-burning and non-rent-burning wood stoves and of providing social protection for low-income households.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2429	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to a national plan with stronger instruments against particulate matter and for better harmonisation between national environmental objectives and legal frameworks, in order to ensure that the national PM10 particulate matter target is not exceeded in the coming years.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report annually to the Storting on the overall work to improve air quality in cities and agglomerations, including the achievement of targets and the need for new instruments.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a requirement that all public construction sites be emission-free.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2465	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2484	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–4, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size declares global warming to be a national emergency for Norway. The country and the world are in a climate crisis requiring extraordinary, rapid and joint efforts to avoid catastrophic consequences.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the Climate Act in order to establish Norway’s emission-free status by 2040.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a realistic and binding domestic greenhouse gas cut plan by 60 per cent by 2030 compared to 1990. That plan shall be submitted no later than 1 January 2020.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a realistic and committed plan to prevent loss of biodiversity and nature by 1 January 2020 at the latest.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2528	Case No. 7 and 8 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-19.ana.ud268e2542	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
