ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e37	The representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Ove Trellevik, Eirik Sivertsen and Marit Arnstad, who have been authorized, have again taken the seat. The representative of Marianne Haukland shall apply for parental leave from 21 October 2019 to 5 June 2020. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be processed immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Vetle Langedahl, is called to meet during the period of leave starting on 22 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e71	The representative of Ms Lagen Waogslid will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e76	On behalf of the representatives of Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Jan Bøhler and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to change the timing of the assessment of victims of violence in resumption cases, from being the time of the harmful action to the time of the conviction, and to give retroactive effect to the legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e81	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules. The President will inform you that, in line with new practice, it will be voting at noon. 14th @item: inlistbox Case No. 1 and 2 are processed together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e115	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The debate will be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and the speaking time will be allocated as follows: Work Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will allow up to five replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time – and those who may sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Injerd Schou, working spokesperson for matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e126	Nordic cooperation is an expression of our most fundamental foreign policy. It doesn't know at least one like me, who comes from Eastfold, where we share the border with Sweden to the east, and where the sea to the south opens towards Denmark. There are two issues that concern Norway's cooperation with the Nordic countries, which we have to deal with today. One is the report from the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council for the second half of 2017 and the calendar year 2018. The second is the government's announcement of Nordic cooperation. I thought I would first say something about the report. The Nordic Council is a good body for Nordic cooperation, and the report for consideration thus covers the calendar year last year, 2018, when Norway had the presidency. Norway used that position in particular to focus its efforts on achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goal 14 on the seas. I also saw in front of the United Nations and the high-level week that was, that many of the countries call this world goals. So they're all covering us. Furthermore, we highlighted the demand for Nordic gender and climate solutions and the need to defend the Nordic labour market model. The Nordic Council emphasises the reduction of border barriers for citizens of the Nordic region, and the aim is to bring the Nordic countries and authorities closer together and solve practical problems for our citizens. It is particularly important that Norway should continue to use cooperation within the Nordic Council to promote common Nordic solutions in the sectors of climate and environment, but also art and culture, growth and development, well-being and security. Norway has served with a strong and comprehensive friendship and cooperation with our closest neighbours, and it is positive that the report shows that the Nordic Council has been used for this very purpose. I would like to take this opportunity to show that the Nordic Council's annual main session last year was held at Stortinget on 30 October-1. November. There were 900 delegates. The main theme of the session in Norway was the robustness of the Nordic countries in meeting the efforts of other countries to influence and undermine political processes. The question of cybersecurity and hybrid warfare was thus central to this meeting. This delegation drew up its own Presidency year presidency programme to contribute to the continued sustainability and security of the Nordic region, with the areas of health technology and patient safety, education, inclusion and mobility, the environment and safety at sea and defence and security. So to a little bit more about the big message and Nordic cooperation: Nordic cooperation is an invaluable community for Norway. Apart from close cooperation, the cultivation of a sustainable cultural community and strong friendships, Nordic cooperation has contributed to concrete results, such as Nordic passport freedom, a common labour market and an integrated Nordic energy market. The Granavolden platform, signed by the four government parties, is underpinning the development and strengthening of Nordic cooperation. The declaration also points out that the potential for cooperation in the Nordic region should be exploited where it benefits our citizens, businesses and countries. It is positive that the government is following up the platform by providing a big message on Nordic cooperation. The Communication follows up existing actions in this area, in particular with a view to a new vision and target structure for the Nordic Council of Ministers. The three main strategic priorities presented in the Communication are positive. They take into account both major challenges we face and areas where it is actually possible to implement something through Nordic cooperation. This concerns a green Nordic, a competitive Nordic and an inclusive Nordic. I believe that Norway has the best conditions to play a very central role in achieving these three key strategic priorities, perhaps especially in view of the goal of a green Nordic. We have a unique position as a producer of energy and have large capacities in advanced high technology. This will be central to sustainable and carbon-neutral energy production in the future in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e147	As the rapporteur has now explained, we are dealing with two documents at the same time in this debate. The new part of the year is that the scope of the Nordic co-operation notification is only 15 pages, and Norwegian efforts to strengthen Nordic co-operation are explained. The fact that it is so short is in line with the signals we have received from the Minister of Cooperation, to which we have joined, that every two years we have to have a brief message. However, we expect – and I think the Council of State agrees – that next year's communication will be more complementary and give a broader picture of government expectations and plans for initiatives in Nordic cooperation. We share the government's intention that Nordic cooperation should work as optimally as possible. We therefore welcome the effectiveness measures that have been implemented. It is important that the Council engages in matters that matter to the citizens, who are current, and on which we can have concrete influence. We also support the three key strategic challenges adopted by the Nordic Council of Ministers, a green Nordic region, a competitive Nordic region and an inclusive Nordic region. These are all areas that require cross-border action and where we can jointly contribute to making a difference. Of the measures under the heading ‘Green Nordics’, I would like to highlight the establishment of a Nordic forum for the non-toxic and circular economy to promote green migration as a positive contribution, as well as the commitment to Nordic energy cooperation, sustainable food production and measures to stop the introduction of plastics and microplastics into the sea. These are all areas that will require great attention in the coming years and where it is important that we present common solutions in the Nordic countries. An area that I believe has been neglected for a long time is transport and infrastructure. The lack of a separate Council of Ministers in this area has made it difficult for the Nordic Council to monitor closely and record closely. I have noticed the section of the communication where the topic is addressed, and hope that the dialogue with the other Nordic countries to strengthen cooperation on the cross-border transport corridors will be successful and deliver concrete results. An important area of activity for the Nordic Council over many years has been helping to reduce border barriers between countries. There is reason for Stortinget to be very aware that many people experience major practical problems when moving to another Nordic country. Tax rules or inequalities in professional qualifications are clear examples of this. The reduction of border barriers is crucial if the goal of making the Nordic region the most integrated region in the world is to be achieved. Furthermore, the reduction of barriers opens up new opportunities in many areas. The serious forest fires in Sweden a year ago underlined the importance of having a flexible system of clear guidelines for the use of civil protection resources. The position of the Nordic Council working group, set up after the fires, to look at our civil protection resources in a wider context, shows the opportunities that lie in this important area. Defence and security policy issues play an increasingly important role in Nordic cooperation. Defence cooperation NORDEFCO is a valuable forum for defence and security policy dialogue. Joint military exercises and cooperation on international operations are constructive examples of cooperation in this important area, as are cooperation on the procurement of defence equipment. Rescue cooperation, the Haga cooperation on social security and joint efforts for ICT security are also areas where the Nordic countries will benefit from close contact. So I want to say this: Nordic cooperation has a new vision: the Nordic region should be the world's most sustainable and integrated region by 2030. I want to pay tribute to the co-operation ministers for driving forward the new vision and the three strategic priorities: a green, competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region. It was in place to clean up the various strategies and priorities of Nordic cooperation, and hopefully the new strategy will provide a more common arrangement for cooperation – also honoring our own Minister of Cooperation for briefing the Norwegian delegation on the plans along the way. Similarly, we note that the Nordic Council as such has not been consulted in the preparation of a new vision and strategic priorities. That is a pity, because I believe that both the Council and the Council of Ministers are playing on the same track in this context, and that is a good goal for us together. It is also stated in the Helsinki Agreement, and I remember it, as it says in Art 46: ‘The Council should be given the opportunity to comment on Nordic issues of greater importance.’ [[...]] I think that intention is not fulfilled as it should in this context. Having said all this from this pulpit, I am now attending the process of concreteising the strategy, where the Nordic Council Bureau and the sample will make their input. This brings me to the next point that I need to talk about in this article, namely the budget of the Nordic Council, because the new strategy will have an impact on the Nordic budget in excess of NOK 1 billion. The Helsinki Agreement also states that the Council of Ministers should follow the Council's recommendations regarding the budgetary arrangements, which are in accordance with Art. 64 of the Helsinki Agreement. With the new strategy, there is a expectation in the Norwegian delegation and the Nordic Council that the political space in the budget will increase. At present, there is far too little room in the budget for political governance, in any case as has been the case – or in another way: politicians have allowed the Secretariat and the officials to rule far too much on the preparation of the budget of the Nordic Council. In the process between the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers leading to an agreement on a budget of about 1 billion. kr, it is actually small money we move around in the Nordic Council. The Norwegian delegation therefore welcomes the fact that the new strategy provides greater political space for action in the Nordic budget. On behalf of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council, I expect the Nordic Council to be consulted in the course of the preparation of the next comprehensive strategy, and that this will be seen in close association with the budgetary process. Finally, let me say a few words – like the representative Schou – about the activities of the Norwegian delegation in autumn 2017 and spring 2018. There has been a significant Norwegian involvement. The 20 members of the delegation, both as members of their respective selections and during the session, have made a significant contribution to the work. We have had our priorities, as the representative Schou also stated: health technology and patient safety, education, inclusion and mobility, the environment and safety at sea, defence and security policies, where cooperation on social security and safer digital life has been the main issues. Through the party groups, the members of the delegation have made a number of proposals on everything from the recognition of education and professional qualifications to the common Nordic forestry policy and the extension of the equal pay certificate, to mention something. At the spring 2018 theme session in Akureyri on Iceland, the sea was a recurring theme. The starting point was Part 14 of Agenda 2030, which is just about the marine environment. A number of the members of the delegation took part in that debate. The session in autumn 2018 took place in Oslo – to which the representative Schou referred – and was a very successful session. I hope that through this to Stortinget we have explained what has happened in Nordic cooperation during this period, and I look forward to a meaningful and sensible discussion of the issues ahead of us. Nordic cooperation is very important for Norway and the Nordic region as a region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e194	First of all, I will join the post of delegation leader Martin Kolberg. The Norwegian delegation is working hard to develop the Nordic community and also to get an impact on many issues adopted in this room. A green Nordic is what we will focus on in particular. From the fall of 2018, I have had the pleasure of leading the Committee for a Sustainable Nordic Region. The Nordic low-carbon society is a great vision, but also very important, and we have taken many important steps in Nordic cooperation over a long period of time. It is possible to create a sustainable Nordic region, and the ambition to be the region of Europe that is the best in the circular economy is absolutely achievable. One of the things we work with in the Sustainable Nordic Committee is carbon capture and storage. As we know from the debate here in the Chamber, it's about a lot of money, and it's about demanding technology, but it can also be very useful. We now have good Nordic projects. Finnish Fortum is already in Norway and is involved in one of the projects here, but also in the other Nordic countries, there are entirely concrete projects within the Northern Lights cooperation, and this is establishing the Nordic region as the most important region, the main cluster, to develop carbon capture and storage technologies and a whole value chain in Europe. We need to take advantage of this for our benefit – both for Norwegian emissions, for Norwegian industry and also globally in order to take advantage of the opportunities now available to take carbon out of the atmosphere. We also have a common Nordic fuel market, I would argue. The Swan brand is one of the Nordic successes, established many decades ago. Now eight suppliers have been licensed for branding fuel. There are not so many other regions in the world that have it. Seven of them are on biogas, and one of them is Norwegian, and it's one on biodiesel. That policy must be developed further in the Nordic countries. Sweden has now established a policy to introduce a reduction obligation for fuel emissions in the transport sector. In Norway we have led the conversion to electric cars. But we depend on all types of fuel to achieve our goals. We have large producers of renewable fuels in the Nordic countries. We must help both to raise capacity and to put that fuel into use in order to reduce emissions. Another part of the cooperation established in the Nordic region is about funding and innovation. Nordic Development Fund, NDF, is one of them. They have a lot of capital. They have a Nordic voice globally, and they have an important cooperation with the World Bank. The Nordic Investment Bank is an important institution. They have 3,000 loan projects, and they've invested over 278 million. euro. The Nordic region may already have the best banking and financial structure in the world. We have great confidence, and we have a lot of new technology going on that can be used in the green transition. We need to know that to benefit from the common good in each country, but together we are even better and can help with even more beyond our borders. Nordic Environment Finance finances only green projects, mainly small projects, outside the Nordic countries. They contributed 124 new projects only in 2018. They are involved in taking a significant risk, but it is also very important in the development of these projects. In addition, we have Nordic Innovation and several other actors. They're important. But we also have to bring the private capital and the pension capital. ATP, Denmark's largest pension fund, has both ownership and the creation of meeting places. They say there's enough money in the system, but there's too few projects. That's why this Nordic voice is very important. Nordic cooperation is important in order to achieve more projects and create the cooperation between public and private capital necessary to contribute to the green transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e217	Nordic cooperation has been an important community for Norway since the Nordic Council was formed in 1952. This parliamentary cooperation stands firm, with many good results. At the same time, we must constantly develop and improve it. We have a common position in a bunch of questions and common values that bind us together. Parliamentary cooperation is important to ensure that our common welfare model is resilient over time. The Nordic countries face many of the same challenges. That is why I believe the best solution for the development of the welfare model must be found jointly between the Nordic countries. Some of the most dynamic Nordic cooperation we have now is in defence, security and preparedness. I think we need to focus more on it in the future, not least in the light of developments in the north, of course in respect of the fact that the countries have different alliances. At the same time, I would also like to stress that an area such as cultural policy needs to be brought to the attention of the Nordic Council. It helps to establish links, networks, understanding and common identity. Cultural cooperation is precisely helping to strengthen cooperation and understanding between the Nordic countries, which will become more important in the future. We have carried out important reforms in recent years. They must be passed on. The Christian People's Party is very satisfied with the three main priorities that have been raised. We live in a time when we can clearly see the results of the man-made climate change. Climate and environmental cooperation is crucial for achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Being competitive is important for jobs and well-being, and not least that we must be an inclusive Nordic. Norway must be a driver for these targets. I have great faith in close cooperation in the Nordic region, and that it will continue to play a major role in the future. This shopping message is a good basis for further developing this cooperation. The results of the Nordic Council's cooperation must not only become known in the Stortinget, the Ministry and the Government, but also be announced so that most people know that we have an operational Nordic Council and what things they are working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e238	The Nordic countries are linked through history, geography, values and interests — and not least trust. It gives us a unique starting point for cooperation, a unique starting point for finding common solutions to common challenges, as Nordic cooperation has done for more than 60 years. The government wants to further develop cooperation, not least in today's world, where the climate challenges are urgent, where technological development and global competition put us to new tests, but also opens up new opportunities, where the population grows older, and where the international situation becomes more unpredictable. For this reason, Norway has been driving a new vision and new strategic priorities for the Nordic Council of Ministers. The goal is clearer and more effective cooperation, where we focus efforts on the biggest and most important societal challenges, where the Nordics really need to work together, where we have the prerequisites for success, and where cooperation brings real added value. With this as a backbone, the Nordic Prime Ministers adopted in August three new strategic priorities for the Council of Ministers in the coming years, after the Ministers of Cooperation had prepared the matter for the last year: A green Nordic region, where the objective is climate-neutral and sustainable Nordic countries, in line with the Paris Agreement and the UN’s sustainability objectives A competitive Nordic region, where the aim is to strengthen Nordic competitiveness and well-being in the green shift A socially sustainable Nordic region, where the aim is to maintain the trust and community that ultimately is the great strength of the Nordic region. The Communication addressed today describes the latest developments in Nordic cooperation and also outlines the direction of cooperation in the future. In view of the fact that the new strategic priorities will only have a full impact on the Council of Ministers' budget and activities from 2021, the government aims to address the new vision and strategic priorities in more detail in the next year's big message, and I can confirm that we are adding to a more complete message every two years. The final part of the message illustrates how we can ensure a still safe Nordic region. During the Nordic Council's session in 2018, Nordic parliamentarians and government members were particularly concerned with the ability of the Nordic countries to prevent the attempts of foreign actors to influence our societies and democratic processes. Social security and the need for enhanced Nordic preparedness cooperation are therefore addressed in the Communication chapter ‘A safe Nordic’. As the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, I am concerned about how the Nordic countries can use their respective advantages to meet today's challenges, and about cooperation being relevant and useful to the Nordic citizens and businesses and also linking the political system. I think the Nordics have good conditions for success. And I look forward to cooperating with Stortinget on Nordic cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e270	There is not a line in the usual sense of the word here in Stortinget, but I would like to take the opportunity here in the Chamber to have some comments with our co-operation minister on some aspects of Nordic cooperation. One thing that we have both touched on in our contributions is related to the preparation of the budgets. I said in my speech that I believe that the budgets are too heavily run by the secretariats and by the officials of the respective countries, and neither the Council of Ministers nor the Nordic Council is able to break through this and take good political direction with the budget, I think. There are many issues related to the budget, and large sums, and although I have been in the Nordic Council for many years, I do not fully understand what the money is actually going to do. I want to challenge the Council of States to make some reasoning around precisely these points of view, for this is being discussed very much in the Council at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e277	That is an important question raised by the representative. I believe that the reform we are now doing, and budgetary work, are linked. One of the challenges in Nordic cooperation is that one has been put on top of the other, one strategy on top of the other, and that we have no ability to see it in context and to get clearer priorities. I saw very clearly when I was Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and took part in the ad hoc committee of the Council of Ministers on digitalisation, how difficult it was to get funds released for what everyone thought to be a big and new initiative. So I believe that the clean-up work we are now doing, which is also a clarification of Nordic cooperation, where we have the opportunity to succeed, must also have as an important objective that we can create greater room for important political priorities in budgetary work, and that is ultimately our responsibility as politicians to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e284	I join until recently, because it's a matter of commitment and ability to go into the governance of the Nordic Council it's on the political side. I also want to express that, so I agree with what the Council of State says at the end of its article here now. Now I just want to take a slightly different perspective in the extension of this, but it comes from the first, and that is what is linked to the fact that the Nordic Council of course has full respect for the fact that the Council of Ministers and the Government are in a different position than the Council in view of the need for Nordic consensus and the relationship with national legislation, which individual governments must, of course, take into account nationally – I understand that. But what is frustrating, and I think it is important to have a little discussion here in the Chamber – that is why I also take it in a line change – is that one often feels that the Council of Ministers does not have enough respect for the Nordic Council's decisions. The Nordic Council may adopt a unanimous decision, and nevertheless it will be set aside. I would like to make a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e292	It is difficult to reason about it without concrete examples, but I agree with what is the main point, namely that both the Cooperation Ministers and the individual Councils of Ministers must, of course, listen to the decisions and observations that come from the Council, and that decisions also require a thorough process and be evaluated before proceeding with it, or that it should be abandoned. The fact that a decision is taken in the Council of Ministers does not mean that it will automatically be so, but I believe that any decision is entitled to a thorough examination, and that it is taken seriously by the Council of Ministers and the Cooperation Council. So if the delegation has concrete examples of this, I'd like to listen to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e297	It is not necessary – I was saying – to parliament more on this, but the example that goes back to what we are now talking about is a Nordic mortgage arrangement. It was investigated for years by the Council, documented, carried out in two discussions and unanimously adopted — and the Council of Ministers only disregards it on the grounds that other matters are being taken into account. It is possible to respect it, but it shows that there are problems with the Council's influence towards the Council of Ministers in concrete matters, even if the Council is 100 pst. unanimously – in all countries. Then, in my view, the Council of Ministers extends its competence to override the Council too far. This is a concrete example.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e302	I respect that, and I am pleased that the representative Kolberg is addressing the issue. Because it is clear that if the Council feels that the decisions taken are not taken seriously, it will eventually also weaken the interest to participate actively in the Council. It does not necessarily mean that any decision must be exactly as the Council has imagined, but I agree that it requires a thorough examination. I can confirm that I myself have intervened in matters and said that this needs to be investigated better before a final position is taken on the question in the Council of Ministers, a concrete issue in the field of education. I believe it is our responsibility to ensure that when a decision is taken, it is carefully assessed before the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Cooperation takes a final position on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e309	I think a green Nordic is worth a line change, so I want to discuss the possibilities we have. I was a little in the middle of my article, among other things. on the Danish pension fund, ATP, which says that there is a lot of money in the system, there is a great deal of interest in investing in green opportunities and green migration and also in climate. The Governments and the Council of Ministers also, according to the Communication, have ambitions for a Nordic ministerial meeting on the development of green financial markets. So I wonder where that discussion stands, where the road continues, and the possibilities that the Council of State sees in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e314	I don't know about the concrete initiative. It would be natural for it to be followed up either with the Minister of Finance or with the Minister of Climate and Environment. But we're now in a phase where we've agreed on the vision, we're working on the strategic priorities, and then I think it's important that different initiatives and different proposals come up. Now we point out that direction, and then the proposals have to come to the table before we finally decide what kind of decisions to make, or what kind of conferences to organise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e319	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e324	There is great support for Nordic cooperation in the population. Over 90 pst. expressed the importance of Nordic cooperation in a study carried out on behalf of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Climate challenges, globalisation, digitisation and an unpredictable international situation mean that in the years to come, we will have a lot to do with effective and targeted cooperation across Nordic countries. The government’s political declaration, the Granavolden Platform, states that Nordic cooperation should be developed and strengthened. The potential for cooperation shall be exploited where it benefits citizens, businesses and individual countries. The work of the Nordic Council is about putting matters on the agenda, taking initiatives, getting debates started, holding conferences, sharing experience and influencing individual countries' progress and follow it up in their own parliaments. The reform work of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers has been aimed at ensuring focused and effective cooperation with greater relevance and budgetary flexibility. The aim has been to improve the priority and focus of the matters on which the Council is to work. The work must be linked to what the Council of Ministers sees as common Nordic challenges and areas of action. It is important that the work of the Nordic Council is timely, seen as useful and provides added value for each country. Three key strategic priorities have been proposed to lead to more long-term, predictable and measurable governance of the Nordic Council of Ministers. These are: A Green Nordic: It is a desire to further develop Nordic climate and environmental cooperation in order to create a climate-neutral and sustainable Nordic region in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030. A competitive Nordic region: it is about focusing on Nordic cooperation on research, innovation and digitisation to ensure future Nordic competitiveness, jobs and well-being. An inclusive Nordic: this is to preserve a Nordic based on trust, cohesion and equal opportunities for all. Key instruments are integration, equality, education, language and culture. I want to highlight what has been done and done in the strategic priority area of an inclusive Nordic. I'm the head of the welfare committee in the Nordic region, and most of the issues and themes we deal with belong to this priority area. Trust and cohesion are important values and characteristics of Nordic culture. This is the basis, for example, for: our willingness to pay taxes, in the confidence that government and municipal authorities will carry out their tasks for the benefit of society. An inclusive Nordic is about how we can maintain Nordic trust and cohesion. An important area of action in the field of welfare is the Nordic cooperation programme on the inclusion of refugees and immigrants. It has focused on getting a good inclusion in working life, sharing experiences on how to facilitate, among other things. reception of unaccompanied minors and challenge the role of civil society in integration. In inclusion, there has also been a focus on the obstacles experienced by people with disabilities to work and society in general. In 2018, the Nordic Council of Ministers presented an action plan for Nordic cooperation for this target group. Equality is also high on the agenda for Nordic cooperation and is one of the main issues that we in the Welfare Committee are dealing with. The goal of the Nordic region is to be the world's most equal region. Many proposals and experiences have been shared, including: on a certification scheme implemented by Iceland in respect of equal pay for equal work. There has also been a lot of focus on the follow-up after metoo. Nordic cooperation for better health 2017-2019 has focused in 2018 on welfare technology and e-health. This field opens up many opportunities for future healthcare, and here we also have a lot to learn from each other in Nordic cooperation. The recommendations in the Bo Könberg report form the basis for Nordic health cooperation. One of the proposals is closer cooperation and health research on rare and serious diseases of which there are not so many cases in each country. We see the Nordic region, with its 26–27 million inhabitants, as a whole, the patient base can be large and more interesting for research. The Nordic Council of Ministers has contributed funds to three sub-projects on ICT solutions, the exchange of health data and clinical studies for medical testing. One of the biggest health challenges facing the world is antibiotic resistance. In Europe, 350,000 people now die every year because of resistant bacteria. It's a huge number, and it's a growing problem. Overconsumption of antibiotics can lead us to experience again that people die of a simple disease such as this. Pulmonary inflammation. Norway and the other Nordic countries have been drivers both locally and internationally in the fight against antibiotic resistance. This work has a high priority in the Nordic Council, and it will continue. Here we have a lot to gain from close and close Nordic cooperation, not least by getting this higher on the EU agenda through our Nordic colleagues in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e355	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e360	Nordic defence cooperation is becoming increasingly important. One expression was that the Finnish Defence Committee chose to travel to Norway, as the first visit, after the Finnish elections. Nordic defence cooperation is taking place in several ways. One is NORDEFCO, and the other is through NATO, based on the fact that Finland and Sweden are partner countries to NATO and have a significant partnership with NATO. The importance of NORDEFCO is becoming increasingly important in a situation where Europe needs to take greater responsibility for its own security. This means that the Nordic countries must also take greater regional responsibility. NORDEFCO contributes to a better understanding of the situation, and in the Trident Juncture exercise 1,900 soldiers from Sweden participated. Last spring the entire Brigade North participated in Sweden during an exercise there. Sweden declared itself independent in 1992. The neutrality line of Sweden was abandoned, and Sweden has concluded a partnership agreement with NATO. The security policy situation in Sweden and Finland has resulted in the emergence of a new conflict line in the Baltic Sea. We saw last year during the Aurora exercise that 20,000 soldiers practiced in this area, and 4,000 American soldiers were deployed to Gothenburg. Nordic defence cooperation has long traditions, and it is a cooperation that Norway wholeheartedly supports. In 2017, the Defence Attaché position was restored in Stockholm and Oslo, which is an expression of this closer defence policy cooperation. Every week, air defences in the three Nordic countries of the North Calotene exercise and exchange information, and they have entered into an agreement enabling each other to land at each other’s airports in the event of severe climatic conditions, or for other reasons. But despite the growing importance of Nordic defence cooperation, it is important to clarify that this is a supplement to NATO. NATO is the bearer of Norwegian defence and security policy, and this is added. It is a guideline for the Norwegian approach to Nordic defence cooperation and is at the bottom of our contributions to NORDEFCO.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e373	The Nordic Council has, as was said here, a very long story behind it and a good story to look back at. We aim to be the world's most integrated region, with five Nordic countries, with 26 million people. It's ambitious, but it's also important and correct. During the period that has passed, Norway has had the presidency programme and the presidential period, and they have worked very actively and well during this period, especially as regards the UN's sustainability targets related to marine areas and environmental issues, which are the most important thing on the agenda for a long, long time in the future. As President of the BSPC, Baltic Sea Cooperation, I would say that we have also had the sea areas up as a follow-up to the Presidency period, as mentioned here. I have to say that the cooperation I have had with the international department here at Stortinget has been very good all the time when it comes to supporting under our international tasks linked to the Nordic Council under the BSPC, so I will give credit for that. The reduction of border barriers is also one of the most important areas. If we're going to be an integrated region, it's about building down the frontier obstacles that we have, and that shows up every single time we meet. Then it is important that the legislative work carried out in the various Nordic countries be coordinated in an even better way, so that one does this for the benefit of the citizens, for our countries and for the tasks we are going to do on their behalf. As a member of the Committee on Knowledge and Culture, I have enjoyed working closely with Nordic colleagues on these issues. This applies to secondary school leave, to the need for greater professional commitment, to lack of apprenticeships and vocational training places and to the importance of obtaining a system of recognition of different professional specifications between Nordic countries. This also applies to increased research on important issues affecting the Nordic region jointly, through NordForsk, and to Northplus, which is the largest field of activity of the Council of Ministers, giving every year 10,000 inhabitants in the Nordic region and the Baltic region the opportunity for lifelong learning. Lifelong learning and a reform of competences are not only important for Norway; it is also important for us as a region to support the work we are doing to prevent the crime of working life and social dumping. The cultural area is another important area of activity. – I see that the time is running out, so I return to the list of speakers, so I get three new minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e386	Cooperation across the Nordic countries is important and, in most other areas, the challenges of education and research are very similar between countries. The Nordic Council of Ministers for Education and Research has gathered on three strategic areas of cooperation: education, research and languages. The principle of lifelong learning and the competence of the future are central to Nordic cooperation in the field of education and our work in the Committee on Knowledge and Culture. It includes everything from kindergarten, pre-school and primary to secondary education, adult education and higher education. Mutual recognition of education and vocational qualifications across the Nordic countries is an important focus for us. We want to work together on digitisation in the field of education through exchanges and good practice for new pedagogics, information on educational opportunities, and the promotion of more open and flexible access to learning in the Nordic region. In research, we want to promote research cooperation in potentially excellent research areas, including strategically important areas, where a common Nordic initiative is important for building a research and education competence of international quality and strength. We also want to promote cooperation and joint use of research infrastructures in the Nordic region. We want to contribute to enhanced mobility, research training and research networks, including: for younger researchers. Nordplus contributes to the financing of Nordic and Nordic Baltic development projects, networks and mobility activities. Every year about 9 000 students, students and teachers participate in mobility activities with funds from Nordplus. The Nordic countries’ research cooperation addresses issues and priorities that are high on the Nordic Council of Ministers’ political agenda. Strategic programme initiated through NordForsk, for example: Top-level research initiative in climate, energy and environment, health and welfare research programmes, the Arctic, social security, gender equality and green growth. Cooperation on biobanks, social registers and clinical multi-centre studies across the Nordic countries is crucial. The Nordic Council unanimously adopted this year our proposal to establish a common Nordic ethical committee for the approval of clinical studies. The goal is more Nordic cooperation on clinical research. Nordic cooperation is more important than ever, and the initiatives taken in the Nordic Council must be followed up with practical policies in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e410	The Nordic countries are each other's main trading partners. The value of trade in the Nordic countries is greater than trade in the United Kingdom, France, the United States, Brazil, China, Russia and India combined. There are studies that say that this potential is greater if the barriers are further reduced. The Nordic Prime Ministers have put on the table a new and, in my view, an excellent vision for the Nordics. They did that in August of this year. That vision should be taken seriously by others, and that was probably the point. The vision that the Nordic region will be the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030 is – as I said – excellent, and the bottom line is no worse. It says to bet especially on the green Nordics, competitive Nordics and socially sustainable Nordics. I guess that's good. But if that vision and the goal of the prime ministers are to be fulfilled, we need to put in some -- call it -- practical spataks. A basic prerequisite for this is that people and goods have to be able to move efficiently and environmentally friendly between our countries, and then we have to seize the infrastructure. It has been understood by the Nordic Council a long time ago. A unanimous Nordic Council has adopted 15 points for effective planning, strategic cooperation, funding opportunities and political committed cooperation for transport in the Nordic region. One point is the restoration of a Council of Transport Ministers, another is more committed planning cooperation, and a third is funding opportunities. Then it must be allowed to say – in view of the change of line that was here and in diplomatic order – that the unanimous decision of 87 parliamentarians on transport has received what I call a rather lukewarm reception of the governments. Both the Nordic Council and I had probably seen that the governments had been – let's call it – a little further ahead when they were going to respond to the Nordic Council's decisions in the field of transport. So my call – or rather challenge – to the Council of State is, among other things.Will the Council of States take the initiative to set up a Council of Ministers for Transport in the Nordic countries, as we had in the past, and as requested by a unanimous Nordic Council? I understood, as I said, in the change of line – I see that time is running out – that the Council of State needed examples, so that he could reason a little on how the governments responded to the Nordic Council's decisions, unanimously or one. Here he has one example. I have more, but I see that in that case I will get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e421	As I mentioned, we have the Committee for Knowledge and Culture in the Nordic region. The cultural area is probably the area that binds us most together, in terms of language, culture and history for many years. Then it's important that we do what has been said here, through practical policy. I'm on the board of the Nordic Cultural Fund. There we spend a lot of money on Nordic projects to promote culture across our borders and across different cultural forms. We have Nordic Council prizes, which put literature, music and film on the agenda. A new price also puts the environment on the agenda. It's different events. Now an initiative has been taken to support an application for the World Cup football for women in the Nordic region. It is an event that can be sustainable, that can contribute to equality and that can promote women's struggle for a fairer focus on sport. I would also like to talk about parliamentary cooperation. Last week I was in Stockholm, at Nordenskolan. The degree of organisation in the Nordic countries and Norway is downwards, both in political parties, in other organisations and not least in labour market organisations. It challenges the Nordic model, with a good and decent working life, where parties – the employee side, the employer side and the public – are involved in strengthening participation, democracy and participation. That's the biggest challenge, because if we don't manage to maintain it, the Nordic model is in danger of not being able to fill the role it has in good welfare services, less differences and people being able to participate in a good way. Tripartite cooperation is more important than ever. In a labour market where we need more highly skilled professionals, it is important that we have a working life where the social partners come together and look at how to solve it for the benefit of everyone. It is in the best interests of competitiveness in a more and more integrated world, both in the Nordic countries and in the rest of the world. By creating good working conditions for employee organisations and other organisations, we are helping to strengthen the welfare model, the Nordic region as a region, our competitiveness and our involvement, which helps to contribute to less disparities in society. The Council of Ministers, the Nordic Council and the parliaments have an important responsibility and an important role to play in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e436	I saw that the council did not use the opportunity to press the button, so I thought I could do it myself, so he gets the opportunity to respond now. Now he gets a few minutes on himself to a direct question that I had hoped he could reason on, because in the change of lines he asked for it. So there are more examples — if you need them when you're thinking about it. Among other things, the Nordic Council unanimously decided to have a Nordic fund, for example. through the Nordic Investment Bank, to finance cross-border investigations, etc., because it has been perceived that it has been a challenge to make it smooth. There are, among other things: The starting point for the answer from the governments – I get to read it in Swedish, because it is the Swedish government that has responded on behalf of all: ‘Some such funds are not currently in force.’ Here a unanimous Nordic Council has used hours and meetings to arrive at this. You kind of get a little sloppy, I'll call it. Back to the Transport Council, which the Nordic Council of Ministers repeatedly and unanimously decided on Akureyri, that it should be given: I also think that this was a bit of a defamation by saying that you already have good contact today, you have informal meetings, etc. They probably do, but I think you have to have the formal meeting places, because that was among other things. said that the Nordic Ministers were to hold a transport conference in the autumn of 2019. I hope no one has been on it – then you have to look over your travel route – because it has not been arranged. Now there are a few weeks left until the year is over, but no one has heard of it. It kind of slipped off the table. I believe it is partly because there is no formal cooperation, a Council of Transport Ministers. Perhaps the most important thing in Nordic cooperation is that we have functional transport years. I must also say I am disappointed, because when the Nordic Council unanimously adopted these 15 points, and the governments had answered, we were not satisfied with the answer, and we have asked for a meeting of the Councils responsible for this. It's been impossible to get there so far, and we've been asking for that meeting for almost a year and a half now. I have to say that's what the Council of State likes to reason on, and I hope he does, because there are some things here that don't float as it should, in Nordic cooperation, and it should actually do, because it's an important cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e460	There are two things that have pleased me in this debate. One is the broad connection to both vision and strategic main initiatives. I believe that it is important that we have now agreed on a clear direction, and that this has a good anchoring both in the Stortinget and in the delegation. It's positive. The other thing that pleases me is that in this debate there has been – if I may, President – a greater commitment than what was last year. And that's positive, because if Nordic cooperation is going to go ahead, we're totally dependent on the commitment, the proposal being made, and also the mention of what 'does not flow as it should', to quote the representative of Lauvås. With regard to the specific question of whether there should be a separate Council of Ministers for Transport, I am familiar with the discussion that has taken place. What has been the Nordic Ministers of Transport's assessment so far is that the informal contact they have is working well. Having said that, once we've started a reform work, it's not like we're throwing up all the balls right away, and we're taking it all in one turn, but we're moving forward by now getting the vision in place, by agreeing on the strategic main initiatives where the various Councils of Ministers, including those of the Nordic Council, are going to work on how to fill in these different key strategic initiatives. Then it's natural that you also evaluate the structure within which you work. The issue of the organisation of the Council of Ministers will then also be a natural one to be considered in this context. It's my reasoning about this that when we do a reform work, we don't intend to end it when it's joined the vision and the strategic main fields of action. There are a lot of elements that we're going to work on, and structure is a natural follow-up to that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e473	Of course, I agree with the Council of State's view that commitment is important. It was a little implicit in what I said, that there is too little political governance, and it's related to the fact that politicians may not put enough commitment in and enough pressure on the work of the Nordic Council, and that it becomes a little bit like that. It is probably related to the large international image of the Nordic place in Europe and all these issues, but nevertheless: there is a lot to go about in terms of political commitment and initiative. I now hear what the Council of State is responding to when it comes to the views of the representative, Mr Lauvås. That's good, what he says about this, and it's helpful, but we have a development where we in the Nordic Council Bureau too notice that the governments are slipping a little away from us. What's happening – and I have an example of this, it sounds a bit political, maybe, but it's really not – is that the Foreign Ministers will no longer meet the Bureau directly during the session, as tradition has been. It goes a little bit in that direction, and if it is allowed to continue, the Nordic Council's initiative partly goes up in the glue, because then we are in a way not respected in the way that we should be respected, as Lauvås says. What is the purpose of the decisions under the Helsinki Agreement if they are only taken aside, removed with a pen stroke? The Minister of Cooperation must take this with him in the Council of Ministers and discuss it in principle. It's better not to make decisions if it's the way decisions are always put aside. The Nordic Council then loses its authority, considering doing things that matter to the development of the Nordic region. That's what this is expression for. This is across the party divisions, and this is a conversation that goes on among parliamentarians during the session and in all other ways, which I believe is important that government representatives represent in a genuine way. That's the premise that the fine words we use when we talk about Nordic cooperation, also in that debate, get something different than honorary content.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e480	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e497	I refer to the Ministry of Justice and Defence in Prop. 142 L for 2018–2019, Changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, proposes to legislate on the principle that the prosecution authority is independent, and states that no one can instruct the prosecution authority in individual cases or turn the decisions into the prosecution authority. In addition, it is proposed to remove the General Authority of Instruction and Transformation against the Advocate General of the Council of State and to remove the decision that the King of the Council has exclusive jurisdiction in criminal proceedings conducted by officials and other officials appointed by the King. Otherwise, I show that the proposals are based on the dispensation from the criminal trial committee, NOU 2016:24, New Criminal Procedure Law. I would like to thank the Committee for its timely and thorough consideration of the matter. There is a joint committee behind the setting. I believe, on behalf of a comprehensive political environment, that it is a central rule of law to have a free and independent prosecution authority. It's a principle that's had a lot of excitement, and it's been an insecurable practice in Norway for over a hundred years. We see it as important that the independence of the prosecution authority, which today is based on a political tradition, is now protected by law, and are some in that legal protection will give greater resistance if the prosecution authority should in any way be challenged in the future. I recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e512	Today, the Storting Point sets for what's really been a pretty long process. This is also a point that has been discussed since the beginning of the criminal proceedings law of 1887. I am now pleased that a unanimous judicial committee has come to the conclusion that the independence of the prosecution authority is to be governed by law. In practice, this amendment is of no particular importance because, as mentioned above, this has been a consistent practice for over a hundred years. Nevertheless, it is necessary – because we never know what the future will be like – that we get this principle legislated, which is a very important principle within the rule of law. On 1 November, a new agreement between Norway, Iceland and the EU on extradition and handover procedures will enter into force. There has also been a judgment in the EU, a plenary decision in May of this year, which states that if the prosecution authority is to be extradited, the prosecution authority must also be formally independent. I therefore thank the Committee for its speedy examination of this legislative proposal, so that it can also come into force before 1 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e519	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Thus, the issues on today's map are finished. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e547	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e559	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e579	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e599	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e717	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e727	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-17.ana.ud354e781	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
