ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e39	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet at oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e48	My question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. The plans to change the structure and places of study at the University of Nord have created a major debate. It's not hard to see why. The concern is that education and training provide professionals with professions that are important to our well-being is being built up. We are faced with a shortage of nurses, teachers and ICT skills, and we are going to prepare to provide continuing training to many more people in a working life that changes faster than before. There must then be good training throughout the country, including decentralised education that allows people with children, houses and loans to take education near where they live. The question now is what the government will do. So far, the signals have been cracking and blurred. It was the government itself that took the initiative in merging into universities. It was the government that then asked Nord University to change structure, and it was the higher education minister himself who showed up at the board meeting of the university in January to tell the board that they had to do everything they could to meet the requirements of being a university. But it was also the government who, when the reactions to the proposal from the board came, sent a letter that they also had to take account of regional needs. These cracking signals are difficult to interpret for the university and for regional and local authorities — and finally for the Stortinget. Now it is the case that the Council of State has called the Council of State and the Nordic University on 4 June, and this is – in addition to the letter of assignment and the development agreement – the governance tool of the Council of State vis-à-vis the university. Structure becomes a theme, and the Council of State has the chance to clean up. The question to the Council of State is then: What clear messages will the Council of State make on the road further for the Nordic University at its meeting on 4 June in order to clear up the uncertainty about the road further?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e61	Let me first say that I think it's good that there's such a lot of commitment around North University. I think we're going to have more commitment to higher education, not less commitment. Now we've seen a huge commitment to that university lately, and it's quite right as the representative says, that I'm concerned that the University of the North -- just as I'm also occupied by all the other universities and colleges we have -- all the way to get better, and the whole way needs to evolve and work to strengthen the offer they have, and the research they're doing. I also believe that a university and a university are responsible for ensuring that we educate our people into important professions, and that the business community and the region to which they belong will get the labour they need. I don't think there's any mixed signals, I think a university or a college has to be able to do both of these things. They must focus both on raising quality and getting better and better at the education they provide, and the research that is taking place there, while at the same time providing skilled labour for the region to which they belong. It's not mixed signals; it's to have expectations that they can do two things at once – and our universities will do it. We do control; we have different ways of giving signals to our universities. Among other things, our ownership dialogue and the etat management meetings are such arenas. Now it's not the council itself, but the department, that uses to meet them. Then we have a number of things we're going to take up. Among other things, the structure and future of North University will also be part of what will come up, in line with what is the development agreement with the university.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e70	I thank you for your answer. I am uncertain whether there was an answer to the question I asked. The situation now is that the board has received various signals about how they are going to go further for Nord universitet. It's hard to interpret this as something other than that the government is trying to say two things at a time. If the government had been so concerned with the needs of the regions and to meet the need for the reform of competences expressed by the Council of State and to the extent that the Prime Minister expressed it in the previous Question Time, it would have been made clear in the letter of allocation along the way. Yesterday the government had the chance to show that they wanted to strengthen North University and give them a better chance to meet the requirements of being a university. The revised national budget was then presented. But the message there was not that there were places of study or scholarships or other economic spaces to North University that would make this job easier. Based on the reactions that the Council of State now sees – the concern in Namsos, in Nesna, in Lake Sandness, in Stokmarknes and to the extent in Bodø – will she consider asking the board to take a new turn on the proposals they have made?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e81	I sent a letter to the board. I sent that before the board examined the report from the principal and sent it to the hearing. Now the board is going to do the job they're going to do. Now is the time for all the actors to make their recordings and the time for the politicians to discuss it. But it's now the business community, it's now the municipalities, it's now the county municipalities are going to make their actual contributions to the treatment that Nord University is going to do. And then the principal will first present a statement to the board meeting, which will be 26 June, and then the board will decide on it. I totally disagree with the representative when he tries to present the signals that have come from me and the Ministry of Knowledge, as mixed and unclear signals. I believe that we must be able to have expectations that our universities can do two things at once: they must both be able to raise the quality and ensure that the region has the necessary workforce. We can't expect less of our universities than they can do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e88	There will be follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e93	I share the opinion of the Council of State that North University is important, and I understand very well why it engages, because it's important for everyone living in the northern part of the Trøndelag, and it's important for everyone living in the northern part of the country. The university plays a central role in developing the continent to meet the challenges of the future, whether it's in public service production or the needs we have to develop the amazing business we have. The Council of State has great confidence in the Governing Board, but was itself committed to the fact that the structural change to which it is now put is a consequence of the Ministry's order in the letter of assignment and through the development agreement with the University, and that it will be a theme of the etat management dialogue on 4 June. What will the Ministry say about the structure of future campuses at the University of Nord in the establishment management dialogue on 4 June?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e100	First of all, this is about the development agreement concluded with Nord universitet by the Ministry of Knowledge and also the process of reviewing the university's location structure. It's important to us that there should be a clean process, and now all the actors out there will have the opportunity to make their recordings. The starting point of the Law on Higher Education is that universities themselves are to determine their structure. I have registered that the Workers' Party has been high and dark in this matter. I would also call it turning the cap after the wind, because when we dealt with the structural reform in the previous period, the Workers' Party was also behind it. The working party has also joined the setting there. It says, and now I quote: ‘In the future, as at present, it must also be up to the institutions themselves and their governments to assess the implications of an appropriate locational structure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e110	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e115	I notice that the Council of State does not know what to communicate about the future campus structure of the university on 4 June. At least she did not answer that question. I disagree that this appears to be a particularly tidy process. On the contrary, it is quite imprudent, because the signals are mixed: the council sends a letter to the board on the same day that they deal with the matter, and that goes straight into the case list. The Governing Council shall meet at the Governing Council and shall clearly have views on the activities of the Governing Board. It contradicts the claim of full trust in the government. Moreover, the Nordic University is a product of a merger that has been pushed through by the government, between the Nord-Trøndelag High School, the Nesna High School and the Nordland University, which has given rise to quality challenges. So it's a political problem, but the government doesn't – they chose not to set up yesterday – with money to the university to solve the quality challenges they've been posed by the merger that the government's been pushing through. When is the Council of State going to stand up to the university and help them solve the challenge they are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e125	I have a certain need to clean up some things. It's true that I was at the board meeting in North University earlier this year. It was before the principal had presented this report, and this was not the subject of the dialogue I had with the board there. Then we talked about the challenges that Nord University has, and that's some of the challenges they're facing, but I have good faith that they're going to be able to deal with them. They now have a functioning principal, they have a good board, and I have confidence in the board that I have, I have confidence that the board will now have a clean process, a process that is open. They've sent out the report to the principal at the hearing. They're going to have a video -- they're going to have all the points of view and all the objections that are out there. Then the principal will present a statement of vote, and then the board will deal with the matter. I disagree that I have given mixed signals. I have given signals that we expect two things from the university, both that they work with quality and that they are working with delivering labour to the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e130	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e135	I notice that the Council of State has faith that this will be fine and great. But now it's the second week in a row that this is a theme in the Questionnaire in Stortinget, and you keep driving and clearing up. I still don't hear anything about what the council will do, but she explains what the board and the principal are doing. Let me then turn to another topic, which the Council of State has previously been very concerned about and expressed very clearly and explicitly about, both in writing and orally, and it is related to the financing and difference between the so-called old universities and the new universities, which have qualified to become universities according to the quality requirements of the university law. As opposition politicians and policymakers, state councils have been very clear that there is a historical bias that needs to be corrected. Now she's in power. When is she going to give University of Stavanger, University of Agder and North University, among other things, the prerequisites to be able to solve the task that she as a government council overturns on them – and that for North University has dramatic consequences for Namsos, Sandness Lake and Nesna?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e142	It's true that there's different funding between our universities. This is mainly due to historical differences and priorities that former governments and magnification have made. It's because of different study portfolios, and that's the way it is. We've spent a lot of money correcting that bias, both at the University of Agder, at the University of Stavanger and at the University of Nord. We have done so through, among other things. providing the three universities with a significant number of scholarships and places of study. In the case of Nord universitet, they have received 105 places of study and 67 recruitment positions from 2014 to 2019. They've had a real growth of over 6 pst. The challenge to Nord University is not the immediate need for money, because they have approx. 150 million. kr on the book. Their challenges are related to the larger picture, but they also consist of several things; it consists of the NOCUT approval, but also general challenges that they face.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e147	Siv Mossleth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e152	On Monday, there was a public meeting on teacher training at Nesna. I was there, with 300 others. The articles were strong. At Nesna, good teachers have been trained for over a hundred years. The school was added to Helgeland because there were no teachers in the north. There are still teachers missing in the north. 10.3 pst. the qualifications of teachers in the Nordic countries are not met. The merger of North University has become a story of false promises. The promise to maintain and further develop the activity in established places of study has been broken. Students and teachers at Nesna get presented with figures and conclusions that hide the good aspects of the site. When Nesna has higher search, attendance, implementation and study satisfaction compared to, among others, Bodø, why does the Minister still go against the marine people, the district people, the mountain people in the north? And why does the Council of State choose to talk down Nesna as a place of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e159	I haven't talked down Nesna as a place of education, I'm on the contrary busy talking up the universities and colleges we have. But we have to be honest that there are also some challenges. With regard to teacher training in particular and the need for teachers in the future, the representative is quite right: we have some major challenges ahead, especially in the three northern states. That's why the government has also introduced a number of incentives to increase recruitment. We've given universities our money to do recruitment work, but we've also, in the scheme we've given for the write-down of student loans, stimulated extra those who choose to move north and get a job in one of the three northernmost states. They will be able to get approx. Extra NOK 50000 in the subscription of a student loan. But the arguments the representative makes now, the concern about the lack of teacher training in Helgeland, precisely those arguments the board has to take on board when they are going to make the decision about the study location structure in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e168	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e173	Study sites such as: Nesna and Namsos have better results than larger places of study when the student's well-being is measured. Up towards 90 pst. by students at Nord universitet carry out – and are recruited to the relevant en route job in or soon after completion of education. This is a desired result of studies, but the principal will deplete and lay down several places of study. Prime Minister Solberg told the NRK that universities should not only look at doctoral degrees, but also at decentralised education. The party leader of the Left, Skei Grande, called the proposal ‘a snow slide into the head’. State Council Nybø wrote a letter that the Nord-Styrdet had to assess the matter carefully, in addition to the principal's assessments. The signals go in every direction. The Prime Minister said that there was a reason why the government sent a letter to the board. What is the reason why the Council of State sent this letter? And will she – or will she not – maintain all these places of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e180	It is an unusual step to take, to send a letter to a board of directors before they will deal with a matter or a report that comes from the principal. In any case, I have not done so before, and there have been some board meetings at the various universities and colleges also in my Council of State. The reason I did that is simply because I experienced the report that the principal presented, which was very focused on the part of the Nord University mission that is about improving quality -- the quality of the research environments, the quality of the professional environment around the education to be given. I certainly believe that a university must be able to have two thoughts in its head at once, and my letter was intended to emphasize to the board that they also have to think about the second part of the community mission, which is about delivering competent labour to the business community and to the working life of the region. That was the background for sending the letter. Now the board has chosen to put it to the hearing, and everyone can make their input.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e189	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e195	This round shows that this is a serious matter. It is a serious matter for the educational offer it deals with and for regional business and employment in this part of the country. It is the way the government has given very double signals – a little vague signals, some say. When statesmen and party leaders travel around and say in the newspapers that there was a snow slide in their heads, and that there is a reverse strategy in relation to what one should have, it is clear that there are some expectations. Then you can't go back to Stortinget and hide behind formalities. That's what I feel the Council of State is doing here today, because I feel that her strategy is to say that now it's the consultation process and now we're going to wait for the board's decision. But if the board chooses centralization – what does the government do? If the board chooses to take note of what the principal says, and only focuses on one leg, as the council says, and not the other – what does the government do? Do they then grasp, or do they intend to hide behind the skirts of the board?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e204	I'm dealing with where we're in the process now. The board has now submitted the principal's report to the hearing with a number of additional orders to which they wish to respond. Now everyone shall have the opportunity to make their recordings before the Vice-Chancellor resubmits a position to the Governing Board, which they shall deal with at their Governing Board meeting on 26 June. I'm not going to stand on the Great Council chair and answer hypothetical questions about what's going to happen if that or that. I have a lot of understanding that this is something that creates a lot of commitment out there, and that there's something that creates anxiety out there. Now there's a consultation round where exactly these concerns are going to come up, where the facts are going to come up on the table, and where we're going to look at the different reasons. Then the board and the principal have to present a position, and the board has to deal with that matter, and I agree that I have a board of directors. I have a good government, I have a government that I trust. So I'm waiting for the board to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e211	Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e216	Following the famous attitude of the Vice-Chancellor of the Nord University to the new location structure, several of the new universities, as well as those applying for university status, have come to appreciate the closure and dramatic changes in the location structure, which will result in a strong centralisation. To stop this centralization wave that is now rolling over Education Norway, it is unlikely that the Council of State will sit in its office and write a letter to the management of universities. Is the Council of State from the former District and School Party Left comfortable with what may look like a radical change of Education-Norway, and in that case will the Council of State do anything about this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e223	Once again, I feel the need to stress that it was a broad majority in the Grand Duchy when we dealt with the structural reform, which said that in the future – as it is today – it must be up to the institutions themselves and their governments to assess what an appropriate study location structure implies. SV was also part of that majority. I'm dealing with the fact that we have masters at universities that know much better than I do the different needs, who know what the problems are, what are the challenges -- where are they going, where are we not getting students, and where do we need to do some action? I'm not going to stand on this pulpit and discuss any closures at other universities. Now we have a situation in the north. There the board has sent out a report at the hearing. There's no decision yet. It will not be done until the Vice-Chancellor has submitted an opinion and the board has dealt with this matter in June. But I record that there has been a debate on the location structure, but it must also be that we should provide good education around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e232	Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e237	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that there was a broad majority who took this decision in the Storting. At the same time, it is very explicit both in the merger platform and in the decision that the existing study site structure should be maintained, and Nesna has never had the opportunity to evolve in line with these governance signals or in line with that merger platform, precisely because we have a government that has not wanted that development. And when you talk about the quality that will be at stake, wouldn't it be natural to look at the results of teacher training at Nesna, which is in the Norway summit both when it comes to well-being and when it comes to exam results?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e242	When the Management Board shall take its decision after the Vice-Chancellor has given its opinion, it shall do so after a broad consultation has taken place. I expect that all these arguments that the representative Meisfjord Jösevold now presents will also be part of that hearing. They have an overview of the overall picture, and it's based on what they're going to make. These will be arguments, just like other arguments, that will come on the table. But there is therefore no decision and will not be a decision until after the principal has submitted his position to the board meeting at the end of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e249	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e254	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Yesterday we could read in the nations that the Council of State wants to halve the number of predators. The regional predators have several times created headquarters for the government because they have followed up the Storting decision on how to manage predatory species in a professional and systematic manner. They also bring important local competence into Norwegian wild game management. The same thing can't be said about the government. And it must be noted that once the policy of robbery has been removed from that adopted by the Great Government, it is because the government does not respect the Storting's clear orders. However, it now appears that the climate minister has found the answer to this problem, namely fewer denominators — yes, more specifically a halve of the number of denominators. Perhaps it is thought that this will lead to less trouble and less attention to the government's review of democratic decisions. At least there will be far fewer members to disagree with. The predatory wildlife subjects were part of the robberies agreement in 2011 and the entire system is to ensure local and regional management. The fact that the government is now obviously working on such a major change as halving the number of predatory wildlife subjects is completely in conflict with the predatory game comparisons. The proposal now being presented reduces the number of denominators, fewer members and larger geographical areas to be managed. It's hard to see that this represents an improvement. The question is whether the Council of State really wants to kill the local predators. Then it would probably have been easier for the Council of State to pursue a policy in line with the Left Programme and with the Right and Advance Party as backseat passengers. This proposal represents major changes in regional predatory wildlife administrations and is a clear breach of the adopted policy of the Storting. When is the Council of State going to take this proposal to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e273	First of all, this is a direct follow-up to what's Biggest's policy. This is a follow-up to the 2011 Robbery Agreement – we are in arrears, but within five years, we were supposed to carry out an evaluation of the predatory game management, including the predatory wildlife subjects. So there's nothing that's been sent out to the hearing yet. What we've had is an information meeting with the predators, which we have regularly. Now we had it – I think it was May 2 – at Gardermoen, where we presented what would be sent out at the hearing in the future, including this proposal. What was then presented has been sent over and transferred to the nation – I will not comment – but there is nothing that has been sent out to the hearing yet. It is also about looking at the predatory wildlife topics and how management works – is their size appropriate to ensure optimal management where, when the stock targets set by the Stortinge are also seen in the light of the regional reform that we are going to implement? But here a proposal will be sent out at the hearing, and then we will have to look at the hearings that come before a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e283	What the Storting has said is that you want to strengthen the predators. This is not to strengthen the local predators. We have become aware that in a recent meeting with the wild game subjects, two concrete models were presented for a new organisation of the wild game subjects, to be further assessed. One model has four regions, while the other one has five, unlike today's eight. In both models, it appears that Trondelag and Nordland are merged into one region, together with the West as one, while Troms and Finnmark are to remain as today. It's good that the Council of State takes it up on its own. After all, we are accustomed to the general government's argument regarding centralisation, including in the area of regional reform, but in this case the limits of the proposal for the new denominators do not even match the borders of the regional reform. Can the Council of State explain in more detail the criteria on which this breakdown has been based?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e292	Now this is not a proposal that has been put to the hearing. It's been a briefing to the predators. I don't think I'm going to go into what was presented at that meeting. It was a very ordinary orientation, but it – I think it was the power point – was then sent to the Nation. But what this is about is what's appropriate, and I'll definitely argue that there's something here that's about weakening the predators. Roofers have an important role to play in the management of wild game in Norway. They are responsible for meeting the stock targets, and they should have that position just as before. So this is about how we're going to do this in the most appropriate way to be able to meet what's the decision of the Storting, and the double goal we have of having a living grazing and caring for domestic farming, while also having the big predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e299	There will be follow-up questions – first Emilie Enger Mehl.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e304	During a government that has repeatedly overestimated the bulk of the population and refuses to follow up the stock targets of the predatory game settlement, I will claim that the predatory wildlife subjects are the last chance of credibility in the predatory game management. Roofers make decisions on the basis of Storting's decisions, professional and local knowledge, and it is an extremely important democratic anchoring in a very demanding and conflict-affected landscape. It may seem that the Council of State fears local and democratic influence now that a new structure has been outlined that will both red tape and water down the predators. The only argument on the part of the government that we are familiar with is that the new structure should be appropriate to regional reform. But there is nothing about the outlined breakdown that is consistent with the regional reform. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what does he think works so badly with today's robbers that you have to propose a complete restructuring of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e311	I believe that predatory wildlife students are working, but this is an order from Stortinget, and we're going to make an evaluation of the administration we have. Then we have to see if the division we have is appropriate. It is difficult to operate precise management in smaller areas. And then you can also see that in context, as you might say. in the case of wolves today, where predatory wild game subjects in regions 4 and 5 have a common management objective. This is a purely suitability question and has nothing to do with weakening the predatory wildlife subjects. They are an important part of the Norwegian administration. Then I'll argue and say that we're following up the robberies deal. We're above the stocking targets for wolves, but now it looks like there's two more young people left. We are also above the target for you, but there is the great outlet – 33 animals so far in the spring – while we are significantly below for bears and globs. At the same time, loss of grazing animals, sheep and lamb, has fallen by 46 pst. since 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e318	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e323	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. The climate crisis requires the world to undergo major changes in the years to come, including here in Norway. From being a country that derives large revenues from the extraction of fossil energy, we must become a country that draws our income from the proper use of renewable resources. The transition must take place within nature's limits of tolerance and in a fair manner that creates acceptance and disintegration in the broad community of the people. What Norway needs now is a green new deal. The Paris agreement took a major step forward in the fight against climate change, but compliance with the agreement will not be without consequences. When the world is going to free itself from fossil energy, Norwegian oil and gas are also becoming less valuable. This is a type of risk, a climate risk, affecting Norway and other major fossil energy producers. Before Christmas, the climate risk committee came up with its report, where they propose what Norway needs to do to be prepared for the transition we are about to undergo. One of the proposals was to ensure that oil companies show us what climate risks we are taking in relation to new oil investments. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: Will the government ensure that all plans for development and operation on a Norwegian base include an assessment of the climate risk of the investment before the decision is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e334	Now this is more than the Minister of Oil and Energy, partly also the Minister of Finance, than under me, so I don't have a very detailed answer. But yes, we're going to follow up on this. We're going to follow up the climate risk committee, which points out three risks that we have. One is, of course, purely physical in Norway — what climate change and global warming in the rest of the world will lead to in us. Then, the transitional risk of rapidly reducing fossil energy sources in the rest of the world – what it leads to also for the Norwegian economy and the production that we have. There is no doubt that we are following two main strategies. One is that we should cut emissions as quickly as possible in Norway. We're at the very front of that field of transport, whether it's electric cars, heavy transport or shipping. Then we need a conversion of the Norwegian economy to prepare for the time that is coming, when the oil and gas sector is going to be a smaller part of our economy. That part of the Climate Risk Committee's report will be followed up, and we will also follow up the Granavolden platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e341	I really hope that climate and climate risk is a responsibility that is also under the responsibility of the Minister for Climate and Environment in this government. Yesterday, the frightening news from Hawaii came that there is now more CO 2 recorded in the atmosphere than what we've seen in three million years. And the reason is our consumption of oil, coal and gas – mostly. In March, the government proposed to allocate a total of 90 new blocks to the oil industry, and the final decision is expected to come from the government over the New Year. My question is: will the Minister for Climate and Environment arrange for the government to prepare a climate risk analysis of this proposal to allocate 90 new blocks to the oil industry before the final decision is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e351	Of the proposal as a whole it will not be. It'll be the single allocations, like following up the climate risk selection and what's in the Granavolden platform. We're following two strategies. One is that we're going to be completely in the forefront of reducing emissions. I mentioned what we're doing here in Norway. In transport, in particular, we show the way in terms of both technological development and the use of it, but also internationally, whether it is the rainforest rate or the renewable rate, which we have doubled in the year we are in. Then it's getting to the economic transformation that we're going to have in Norway, to prepare for the time when oil and gas will become less important. But this is a strategy that requires a change and a transition, and it cannot be isolated to individual decisions alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e358	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e364	Today we have three state councils that all have a very central role in the big shift that Norwegian economy should and should go through, whether we want to or not. In that context, I would like to ask questions to the Minister of Industry. Yesterday, the Business Committee at Stortinget heard about the recent public procurement announcement, where the government announced the strategy for these five hundred billions for which the public buys services and lasts in a year. There were especially two things that came out in the earring. The only thing was that there are many fine words about the environment, but when it comes to the problem, the environment, the climate and the big shifted weight of the message. That is far too little concrete. There's still price that's the central one. The second is that today's system is too bad. One has not followed up the clear scale decisions. Then the question is, why does the government choose short-term savings over the environment and Norwegian companies in public procurement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e375	The answer is that we don't. The currently pending notification of government acquisitions deals with the strategy of buying in an efficient way, avoiding excessive red tape, but also with more innovative purchases and more environmental purchases. A new regulatory framework was put in place for this in 2017. The issue raised by the representative Knag County is quite real. It is that the legislation is good, but it is not used in practice. What this message does is set up a roadmap to get more green and innovative acquisitions. We also have good tools for this now, including: innovation contracts that make it easier for public actors, for example: to cooperate with enterprises in developing innovative and green solutions. So I do not agree with the problem description, and I believe that we also respond to the green switch in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e382	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e387	You don't think that is right. The size has decided to focus on the environment, but when the government follows it in the regulation, the decision is watered from ‘shell’ to ‘can’ and ‘should’ – as it emerged from actors such as the NHO, Norwegian Industry and many others during yesterday’s hearing. Similarly, the Storting's clear decisions on zero emissions from ferry and public transport – from years back – we don't look at anything. There has been a kind of response in the call for decisions that the control committee is currently dealing with. It is clear that the government does not follow clear decisions today, at least in two very decisive cases. And then comes a new message today, where one continues to focus on savings, but does not think in the long term about how to convert the Norwegian public sector and contribute to the big green shift. So my question is, once again – or let's make it even more concrete: Will a change the regulation so that it follows the decisions the Stortinget has made?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e396	We're not going to propose changing the regulation. The problem with today's purchases is that the legislation is not clear enough. Otherwise, once I have spoken to Norwegian Industry and NHO, none of them believe that one should make some sort of schematic, bureaucratic rule that every purchase must be covered by. The problem is that no strategic purchases are used to produce new technologies and green solutions, and that is what this communication should address. It's a little bit about having a policy that doesn't just look at what's on a paper, and not just makes legislation and bureaucracy, but actually makes changes in practice. This will also be followed up by the Ministry of Climate and Environment developing a strategy to increase the share of green procurement. But many of the most important tools are just in the big message that is now in discussion. In the case of environmentally friendly ferries, ships, ships, I believe that we are in the front line. There was also good news in the revised budget yesterday – and the government has also announced a communication on the strategy for green shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e405	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e410	My question goes to the climate minister – and back to the issue of climate risk. Climate risk is often about the risk we face if we do not succeed in achieving the climate goals, what risk it will be to people, to our economy and to our nature. But it's also about how we're planning to actually succeed, and what it has to say for the society we're going to live in. And the answer is really simple: we have to do all our planning so that we actually succeed in our political objectives. Therefore, my question to the government's climate minister – with the responsibility he has for the government's climate policy – is whether he believes that all Norwegian companies, and especially the companies where the government is owned, should do everything in their planning to succeed in the Paris agreement and not exceed the globe's temperature by more than 1.5 degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e419	All our policies are set up to ensure that we succeed in the Paris Agreement, but that is difficult. This applies both to international work, where it is now primarily about the need for all countries to be motivated to strengthen their targets, to be notified to the UN in 2020, and for Norway to strengthen its targets. Now there is one issue in the Storting on the joint achievement of climate targets by 2030, which provides a completely different framework for Norway as well as for transport, agriculture, land use, and also a completely different framework for the implementation of the commitments we have – and that is a commitment. In addition, we impose stricter requirements on ourselves by submitting a plan to reduce emissions by 45 pst. in the non-quota sector by 2030. There we want a plan for next year. And we have targets, for both transport and other, that are more ambitious than any other country has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e426	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e431	Elvesuen calls himself the Green Minister of Industry, and yesterday he boasted that there was almost half a billion extra to the climate and environment in the revised budget. If it makes Elvesuen a Green Minister of Industry, probably Torbjørn Røe Isaksen must be called the Minister of Industry of the Oil Lobby. He collects more than four times more than the electricity in the budget – only for oil and gas extraction comes two billion. According to the UN, we have 11 years to cut emissions by between 40 and 50 pst. It is difficult to understand the government's policy in a way other than that they gamble with failure to achieve the targets, so that oil extraction is profitable in both 2030, 2040 – yes, until 2070 – for if climate policy succeeds, it will not be a market for fossil fuels in the future, and thus not profitable to produce oil as we do today. This could lead to a market-driven crash landing of the oil and gas industries, which we had a taste for in 2014, when many lost their jobs in the oil and gas industries. What is needed is a comprehensive plan to build industry around the country that ensures that people who today contribute large amounts through the oil, gas and supply industries do not have to pay the bill for a conversion of the Norwegian petroleum industry. We need to use the expertise of those who are currently working in the oil and gas industry to build new industries. My question is: what will the self-declared Green Minister of Industry do to ensure that a green industry is built at such a great pace and scale that we can step down today's oil and gas industry without people being converted to unemployment, and so that we also achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e442	Then I also think you have to include the basic tone in the revised budget yesterday, which shows that one of the reasons we now have to make changes is the huge success we have in selling electric cars, which are up to almost 50 pst. What we're doing now to make the transition also leads to economic development. Earlier reference was made to what is happening in shipping. Now we have more than 80 electric ferries to be taken in. We have also set up a reward scheme for speedboats. So that's the muscle we've built Enova to be, and that's going to support the transition we're going to go through. We have a good tool in Norway. That's not all under me. It is the Research Council, which has increased its appropriations, that is Innovation Norway and the Eco-Technology Scheme, which is under the Minister of Industry, which has also increased from 2013 to now. We have built Enova every year until this year, so that Enova now has another size, for example. be able to take a decision on Equinor’s application for sea wind without affecting other areas of activity and they consider free to do so. There is a rather unique position Norway is in. It is increasingly seen that climate policy is also driving economic development. We see that in shipping, as I mentioned, and shipbuilding, it is seen in the production of advanced biofuels, biogas – there are many examples of this. You can see it in more and more areas. It is also a positive sign that the major actors in the petroleum sector are also involved in shifting to the change we need. Marine winds and Equinor are the biggest example, but there are also others on the way over, and that is what we depend on to cope with the transition in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e452	Yes, but do you need a plan, Councillor? That's the question. We see a fall in Norwegian industrial production from the 4th quarter of 2018 to the 1st quarter of 2019, while there is full gas for oil and gas. The National Governing Council of the Left has itself decided that a national plan for the conversion of communities and occupational groups that are badly out of the green shift is needed and to help them succeed in the transition. It's from a federal government decision in the Left. We can support this if it comes to treatment in Stortinget. But what will the self-declared Green Food Council do to ensure that the government makes such a plan as the Left takes up? And if so, when will such a plan for a large-scale industrial journey of new green industries come to the Stortinget? Is there a plan for this plan at Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e457	I think we should also rely on the creativity of the different business actors. There's a lot of this growing up just through new ideas. I'm going to present one plan, as I mentioned in my previous answer, for how we're going to reduce emissions by 45 pst. until 2030, and it's coming next year. We have just started working on a so-called climate cure and ordered the various directorates to submit proposals on it. So that's what we're doing with business development. In that change, there are these 18 diseases that various parts of the economy have presented in order to achieve their objectives. In this context, we are now carrying out various meetings based on 1.5 degree reports with nutritionists in the major cities. We've had it in Oslo, Tromsø, Bergen and Stavanger, and we're going to have it in Trondheim. We also have a major conference on 26 June, where we gather people at a roadmap conference here in Oslo, to see how we're going to move on. Then we also have the measures in the revised budget for shipping, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e466	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e471	But will there be a road map to step down Norwegian oil and gas production? A report came yesterday from the Nordic region that shows that a cut in Norwegian oil and gas production will not be completely replaced by oil from other sources. This applies to one third of what is produced today. We know that very little of the emissions come from production. The emissions occur when oil and gas are burned. Then there are 10 times the emissions from Norwegian domestic production. Will our self-declared Green Minister of Industry do something – create a road map – that can help us to slow down oil production, systematically and systematically, while at the same time stepping up new industry, both to achieve climate objectives and to ensure that those who gradually lose their jobs in the oil and gas industries get new jobs to go to, rather than have to go to Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e478	This is an international problem, and we must follow the Paris Agreement by mobilising locally and throughout through our own policies and international policies. Internationally, we are working for as many countries as possible to increase their ambitions by 2030, and also for businesses and other actors to do so by 2020, creating the pressure to trust and believe that there will be a major change. No later than Sunday, I was at a meeting in Berlin with the High-Ambition Coalition, which is an association of countries to drive this forward. In Norway, we need to take our part to cut our emissions. I also believe it is absolutely essential that we be able to get both the supplier industry and the operators in the oil and gas industry to participate in the big shift that we also need in Norway. We need to use the skills we have built up within that industry, for the new industries that we want. I don't think this is a national plan. We have to have that initiative in the different companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e485	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e490	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Travel life is a fantastic future business with a huge potential that has not yet been taken out. We have to be able to take that potential out, but if we're going to make it, we need political leadership. Then we can't go on like today, where evolution happens piece by piece, divided and reasonably random. It is now two years since a travel notice was submitted. It was a nice description, but since then very little has happened from the government. This year, there are over 160,000 annual works in travel life, and it's time for this industry to be taken seriously, because this is one of the industries we're going to live on in the future. The industry has great growing pain and deserves and needs to be taken seriously, in line with other industries. The problem with lack of political national leadership is that we have no overall political objectives or plans for the industry, and it is very much up to each municipality how to develop travel life. This makes it all of a sudden a little bit random. Locally you take leadership, regionally you take leadership, centrally you don't. This is an industry that consists of very many vulnerable, small players, and there is a lack of infrastructure. Travel life has also called for an action plan for the development of Norway as a travel life nation, how to ensure sustainable development and increase value creation. The Labour Party believes that we need concrete plans and measures, and we need a minister who takes responsibility as Minister of Tourism and Tourism. So my question to the Minister is: what concrete measures and measures will he take to ensure the sustainable and good development of the tourism industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e503	Let me first just say two things to the premise for the question. Firstly, it is at least funny if it is that the policy has been so bad and so little forward-looking, while the industry has growing pain. It is quite right that it does, because we have record visits to Norway both from more traditional markets and from new markets. The second is that I agree that there is a lot of local initiative. Although there have been some attempts to bring together the travel and profiling organisations, to bring them together to get a little fewer small kings, there are a number of very successful local initiatives as well. I don't think this would be any better if you tried to draw a national travel map from Oslo, that we were going to try to detail how private actors and municipalities and regions choose to profile themselves, even though I think more cooperation will be important. The cancellation message that came about travel lives is our roadmap. That's where we announced, among other things. that we need to have more attention around culture and nutrition. We announced something that Innovation Norway is working on right now, that we should not only be concerned about how many people are coming, but also who are coming, and what they are leaving. We said that we were busy with local ownership, not least in the hotel industry, and we will look at how it can be easier for Norwegian owners to operate and operate Norwegian hotels. Then, not least, taxes on wealth are a crucial issue. We have said that we should increase sustainability, and this is also something that Innovation Norway Travel Life is working on. It is important because many tourists are concerned with sustainable travel experiences. This is just to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e510	These were very many words, but there was nothing concrete in what the minister now said – no idea of how to develop the industry from a national perspective, no idea of setting any national targets for this industry. They say it's going well, there's a lot of tourists coming here, so local and regional can keep doing what they're doing. The national leadership remains gone, and what we are now hearing is that the minister has not intended to take any initiative on any active measures and take on the growing pains that are there. It is about the lack of national plans, strategies and objectives, which is something for all other industries to grow and be there in the future. In the Communication, the government has asked the government to develop a strategy for the extension of the season of the tourism industry in cooperation with the tourism sector. Nor have we heard anything special about that. I ask again: what are the Minister's concrete plans for the development of the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e519	In my answer I mentioned several concrete things that are done, among other things. in the field of culture and industry. Thus, it is not the case that every growth industry in Norway is emerging because there is a national policy strategy. It's an intrusion into private business and how private business works, which is very strange to me. That doesn't mean that we can't have political promise, and that we can't clear aside obstacles and in some areas look strategically at industries to help them out. But it's not like a travel industry that goes down, is waiting for the Oslo Storting to create a national strategy before they start. I'd be worried if, for example. had been – now I do not know exactly what the Workers' Party sees for itself – a completely different type of management of the travel industry. Then I think you could easily miss, for example. the fantastic, coordinated travel life effort that has led, for example, to: in the north now has managed to get the whole year tourism others are talking about. An important contribution to several full-year jobs, which I should also like to mention in the first article, is that one is willing to be a little less Catholic than the pope himself in terms of working time regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e526	There will be follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e532	I know developments in the north very well. I notice it every day since I live in Tromsø, so I have a good knowledge of this. I understand that the minister says it's foreign to think active business policies and active leadership, but it's the industry itself, the organizations themselves, who are asking for national leadership on how to develop the industry. Let me take an example from Lofoten: Kvalvika is a small beach, a small bay in Lofoten. There are 50,000 visitors every year. Many other equally fine places in Lofoten have no visitors. So this is governed by social media functions and selfies. That's what determines where tourists travel, for example. Lovoten. You need this to be shared across the whole Lofoten. Then it becomes very special that you keep saying that you really don't need national governance. In addition, there has been a case in which one says that one should cut the marketing funds. Then my question is now to the Minister: Will you get more or less marketing of Norway as a travel destination by cutting the funds you have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e541	There have been two reports saying that we have little left for the 230 million. kr. – not by all, but by the part used by the country to purchase advertising for Norway abroad. Then I think it's our duty as politicians to assess how we use taxpayers' money in a good way. That assessment I'm going to make, but there's no conclusion to that. I believe that what is being prejudiced here is not having an active industrial policy. We have. We also have a large toolbox. We've created our own big message for this industry as well. But here the industry is described as almost passive; if nothing happens nationally, the industry, local politicians or regional profiling companies will not be able to achieve anything. I fully agree that it should be an ambition that people should visit several places in Lofoten, but I can't quite see that where and on which beach people travel to take selfie is a problem that belongs at the Stortinget in Oslo. It belongs locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e550	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e555	I think all of these answers show that you don't understand the challenges the industry is facing. So it is the industry that asks for more national responsibility, but it does not want the Minister to take part in it. You just say that you have to do this locally. I have one last question, which is very serious. The last winters, especially this winter, have been very demanding in terms of progress and fatal accidents. In the big news that came, it was also said that there was a need to set up a scheme for the certification of guides. It is also a question I have raised with the minister in the past. The answer he gave last year was that he wanted to take the initiative to gather the actors into the industry with the aim of discussing the needs and suggestions for possible certification of guides – something the Storting has asked for. Then my question to the minister is: what came out of that meeting, and what is the plan further?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e562	Very well-known, the government has not made any proposal to introduce a scheme for the certification of guides. I guess we've said we should assess it. I'm skeptical about it, and I've also told the actors we've met. I'll mention one thing I think is important because this is an industry that has great potential; it's the need for year-round work. It is very good that a hotel or a tour operator can have three employees throughout the year, but when you have to have fifteen in the season, it is not what builds jobs and value creation in communities across the country. I'm more than happy to see if we can make some major cross-political compromises, but that also means that you have to look at the very rigid rules that apply to the world of work. They simply don't hit this industry in a good enough way. They may fit well in other industries, but for this industry, it may be a hindrance to getting more full-year jobs in real terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e569	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e574	Forest is an important response to climate challenges. The forest contributes to the extraction of CO 2 and its storage. Active forestry is therefore essential for the use of wood in buildings, as a raw material for replacing plastics, as a biofuel for the transport sector and much, much else. Today, the Norwegian forest grows faster than we can cut. That means that our country is slowly but surely growing again. In some places it's okay, in others it's at the expense of cultural landscapes and cultivated areas. There's just a lot of mess around. The government proposes that forest and other land use should be part of the climate agreement with the EU. The government delivered Norway’s forest use plan to the EU in February. The goal of the plan is to cut more forest in the future than what we do today, which is also room for. In concrete terms, the goal is to be able to take out about 16 million between 2021 and 2030. m 3 annually. That's good about what we're mowing out today. In addition, because we export a large part of the wood, there is also a large room for developing Norwegian timber industry and industry further – good for the climate, good for Norwegian value creation and not least good for future green jobs. At the beginning of May, the news was that the European Commission’s expert group unanimously rejected both Sweden’s and Finland’s submissions for the highest level. The landscape of Sweden and Finland has served as a model for Norway’s declared targets, because all countries have a lot of forest and history — and an industry based on the use of forest renewable resources. For Norway, the ESA, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, shall assess and approve the target. The question raised by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is whether Norway is also at risk of being rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e593	It's hard for me to see what's going to happen, but it's true that the reference path that we've reported gives room for growth. Now we decide this ourselves, anyway, but there's an increase in the maximum amount without one having to compensate for emissions elsewhere. It is true that Sweden and Finland have not had their reference paths approved, but it is important to say that the reference path we have registered differs from that of Finland and Sweden. It has been important for us that we build on the historical data we have, and that we also follow the legislation that the European Union has created. We are aware that Sweden's and Finland's are not approved. We have a different approach from Finland and Sweden and a clearer reference to the historical data — which is what they have become subject to — and that these can be verified so that they can be recalculated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e600	I record that the Council of State believes that we have a different approach and criteria than Sweden and Finland had for their goals. At the same time, we also know that both Finland and Sweden were role models of the targets Norway reported. I note that the Council of State cannot rule out Norwegian targets for forest use being rejected when it comes to treatment in ESA. In that case, it is dramatic, primarily for the role that our forest resources can play in the future climate work, but also because it will reduce the profitability of Norwegian forestry and not least the ability to build new value creation based on renewable and climate-friendly resources. In the event of rejection of the Norwegian notified plans, how will the government deal with them, and does it at all have a plan to take care of Norwegian forestry and the solution the forest can provide for Norwegian climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e609	Firstly, Swedish and Finnish notifications have not been exemplary for the Norwegian registration. We have made our own assessment, where we follow the legislation, and where we have seen to what they have done. But the Center Party said we should follow the Finnish and Swedish registrations. Fortunately, we did not follow it, but we have based our own assessments on this. Then it is important to say that, in any case, the EU does not decide which policies to pursue and how much to take out. This is in relation to what it is necessary to compensate for emissions if one goes over the reference path. But we have submitted our proposal and believe that we are within the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e618	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e624	It is that an important part of the future green industry is going to be the forest and wood industry. It may be an engine to reduce CO2 emissions. It was almost joyous – I would say almost a sigh of relief – for many of the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party when the government arrived at the solution it came up with. Then I hear the Council of State say it has nothing in common with the Finnish. But that is what the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party said this winter. They then said that this was a solution in line with the recommendations of NIBIO and the Environment Directorate, and they have much in common with the way Finland reports. If Norway were to accept its solution, it would be dramatic. It'll be to choose the short term ahead of the long term. It will really be serious for Norwegian forestry and wood industry. What will the government do if that happens? If so, will the government, for example, postponing the climate agreement with the EU to clarify that issue before concluding any agreement with the EU on climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e633	The proposal for joint implementation lies in the Storting, and we need to put that in place. We follow the legislation that is otherwise in the EU, and then we need to have this decision here too, so that we can be part of the joint implementation from 2021 onwards. Then we believe that we have a different approach – we follow the legislation. It is true that Sweden and Finland’s reference roads were subjugated because they have not followed the principle that the reference path should be calculated on the basis of historical data. We have. We base all of our calculations on data from the historical reference path. We did not follow what was also the requirements of the Centre Party, and what was the way Finland has dealt with this. We believe that we are within the regulatory framework, although we have done what we have also said before, we have also looked at what Sweden and Finland have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e640	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e645	We can probably discuss back and forth whether this has something in common with Finland. I just record that the Right Party and the Advance Party, when they sent out a press release in February, said that this would allow for maximum increases in line with the recommendations of NIBIO and the Environment Directorate, and has much in common with the way Finland reports. That's why many of us are worried: what's going to happen to the Norwegian notifications? For if Norway fails, it is very serious for Norwegian forestry and wood industry, and it is very serious for Norwegian climate work and for our ability to reduce CO 2 emissions. So then there are two questions left to the Council of State. When does the Council of State assume that this can be clarified? And what does the government think to do with that if it were to fail?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e655	As I say, the government believes that we follow the legislation, and the significant difference between the Swedish and Finnish reference path is that we have based all of our data on the historical reference period, which is within the legislation. Then there is room for an increased peak, without having to compensate for additional emissions cuts in other areas. But anyway, we decide our policies within how much we want to mowing, and forest management is determined nationally. What this is about is whether what you do will have to be compensated for in other areas or not. But how much we take out, we'll decide for ourselves anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e662	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e667	Over the last few years, Norway has probably been one of the world’s best placed countries in view of a large-scale industrial journey based on forests. We have had a lot of raw material available, prices have been good for the industry, the dollar price has been favorable with the eyes of industry, interest rates have been low, and at the top of the whole, Norway is geographically located even more favourable if possible than both Sweden and Finland to export new finished products based on the forest. What we need now is capital and action, and in the specific cases we see that right-wing government is very passive. We now have many jobs located in Saugbruks in Eastfold that are important to build on in the future. Why is the right-hand government so passive in strengthening that industrial enterprise?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e674	I then assume that what the Sandtrøen representative believes is the desire for a redeployment of the Environment Directorate's decision on the CO 2 compensation scheme. There's one thing that's now in the department. There is no one who believes that the Environment Directorate has done something wrong – they have followed up the regulations as they exist. Then there's a desire for transformation. We're going to make a decision on that, so I don't want to go into it any further. Otherwise, I would say that what the government is doing to get a stronger forest nutrition, is among other things. what we do with using advanced biofuels, so that what's leftover from the industry can also get a much greater value – an added value – in advanced biofuels, of which we need more. And then it's about taking the wood more into use as building material.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e684	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e689	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. 2019 appears to be a year that is becoming very important in international climate work. It is a growing recognition that we are living in a climate crisis time. We've got high school kids on strike all over the world. We have received the 1.5 degree report, which shows the large difference of 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees, and which may show in particular how important it is to act now. We also have new insights into the challenges of biodiversity and biodiversity. All of this I know that, like myself and many others here, the Council of State is also very concerned about. What we have to take over is that choices we make right now are going to cast shadows over all futures. That's why our political choices in these days are so important. In December we have COP25 in Chile. Before that, the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, has called for what is almost a New York climate crisis summit in connection with the UN General Assembly. He goes a long way in begging countries to come up with strong national targets. I am pleased to acknowledge that the Granavolden platform says that efforts will be made to raise the EU's overall climate target to 55 p.m., and support it. But we notice that a number of EU countries go beyond this: Sweden 63 pst., the United Kingdom already says 57 pst., Germany 55 pst., etc. Spain, Portugal — a number of EU countries have now taken an even stronger role and say that it is important to lift the platform but that it is possible to go further. Will the Council of State take the initiative that Norway will report stronger national targets already in September, which go beyond what the EU would have agreed on at that time, or will we wait for us to get Poland and all the others, and only then to make demands that go beyond the ones we have now, that is, outside and officially? I'm not talking about the government platform right now, but what's being registered to the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e702	We are one of the very few countries that are already saying that we will strengthen our targets and what we will report in January 2020. How concrete we are in September – there has to be a development. We will do exactly the same as Sweden and all the other EU countries, who will not report anything there either, because they are reporting their common European targets. But when we are going to have a joint implementation with the EU, there is nothing wrong with having our own national targets going further, as we have also said, because what the government statement also says is that we should cut 45 pst. in Norway in the non-quota sector and submit a plan for it. We also work internationally in the field of biodiversity. The main conference on biodiversity is in Trondheim as early as July. Then we have the UN Summit in September, we have COP25 in December. All these meetings need to build on each other to make momentum for stronger goals for all. We also need a paris agreement for nature in China for next year, where Norway also works very centrally to get it done. With regard to strengthening the EU’s objectives, the discussion they now have and that they have in Romania, on the long-term plan for 2050, is about whether to be climate-neutral or not. We want our own plan towards 2050 for our low-carbon strategy. We say in the Granavolden platform that we should cut greenhouse gas emissions by 90–95 pst, which in Norway is a stronger target than if we should have said we should be climate-neutral. There's a little bit different between countries. We need to use the influence we have in the future to influence the European Union too, in order to strengthen their goal towards 2030, where we will also have the same commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e714	The Council of State was quite right in what is the difference between Norway and the progressive EU countries when coming to New York, for example, for example. Sweden can have 63 pst. as their national objective, the notification they come with is identical to that provided by EU countries. Norway, on the other hand, has an independent voice that can be used here to say what these countries actually think should go further. I would very strongly encourage the Council of State to show leadership and make sure that the government shows leadership in submitting a requirement that at least meets what the Stockholm Environment Institute recommends for us to stay on the 1.5 degree path, which is at least 53 pst. - 55 pst. is of course even better than that. So my strong call is that you actually try to use that opportunity, so you move on to COP25 in Chile with a clear national message. I think that will be recognised, not least among many of our European allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e719	As I said, we have already said that we will strengthen our goal. We are in the same process, where we want this cooperation with the European Union on joint implementation and that we have the same framework. We work, as I said, internationally, through the High-Ambition Coalition, as the representative Barth Eide knows well, to get as many people as possible to announce that they want to strengthen their goals. We are also working concretely towards the EU to strengthen their goal – towards the goal of the Granavolden platform – to 55 p.m., while going beyond what is the commitment we want to have in agreement with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e724	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e729	I thank you for your answer. I see the Council of State as wanting to be with the EU countries that will go the farthest, and I want to be happy both internationally and not least in the government to get through to that view, because it has some consequences when you get there, but it is certainly good for the Council of States. Mr Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, has been concerned about making concrete policies. He says targets are important, but you also have to have concrete targets. One of the most important things, all the way back to Rio, is the message to think globally, act locally. Many municipalities in Norway now have a very strong focus on raising climate action where people actually live, and all people live in a municipality. At the same time, the government of the Climate Set in this RNB budget. Then I wonder what initiatives the Council of State will take to get a local commitment that he might be able to take along and tell about when he's going to New York in September?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e736	We're not cutting at all at the climate rate. On the contrary, we're adding $25 million. kr just at the Climate Act, which targets speedboats, so that we receive tenders with low emission requirements. The fact that there is a reduction is a purely technical change, because the climate funds allocated in recent years are not ready for use by municipalities. The allocations that have been there are still there, so that is a purely technical change. Otherwise, it is true that even in September, there are only Heads of State who come up with measures, who are allowed to say something – at least what they say – so we are also going to have to work on what is action, among other things. within the sea bet. When they are there, the Prime Minister's maritime panel will present, not all, but an interim report on climate, and we are now looking at how we can follow up on this with action. It also applies to the big cities, which are a central part of this – how we mobilise from below and up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e743	Espen Barth Eide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e748	I would then like to congratulate you on that and stress that at least Norway has our strong support for this, for some countries now have to show that it is going to do so and help. I also want to communicate from a visit our committee had in California last week, that in the United States, despite President Trump, there is an incredible amount of positive developments at state level. I would also like to ask whether the Council of State, in recording this, will strengthen the work of building alliances also with non-national political units – when we see the kind of contradictions you have in, for example. The United States, but as I hear now also evolves in e.g. Brazil, between other political levels and central governments, to actually lift it. For people's economy and everyday life is often local and not global.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e753	We have that cooperation. We have a partnership with California and through it also with 24 other states in the United States that have now joined the same organisation that follows the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We also have cooperation — in particular in forests, a network of forests — with the state of Brazil, but also with the other forest countries with which we work. We have initiatives in forests and cities where Norway has taken the initiative, and there is also a lot towards business about how we create deforestation-free value chains. Much of this will be nature-based solutions, and it is one of Norway’s tasks against the UN Secretary-General’s summit — to support under nature-based solutions, a work led by China and New Zealand. Our task there is just to look at the forest and the experience we have with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e758	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e772	There are a number of changes in the set list of questions, and in this regard the President refers to the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. Question 3, from the representative of Masud Gharahkhani to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him. Questions 6 to 9 from Martin Kolberg, Martin Henriksen, Lise Christoffersen and Cecilie Myrseth, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has departed. Questions 10 and 11 from the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete and Sandra Borch respectively to the Minister for Defence have been withdrawn. Question 15, from the representative Katrine Boel Gregussen to the Minister for Defence, will be taken up by Mr Knag Fylkesnes. Question 16, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be raised by Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold. Question 17, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Social Security, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 19, from the representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, will be raised by the representative of Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e800	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e805	‘In winter, people in Norway experienced record power prices, 21 pst. higher in the first three months of the year than in the same period last year. At the same time, the electricity charge has never been higher than under today's government, and for many people, the electricity bill has become demanding to pay. While Siv Jensen has been Minister of Finance, the electricity charge has increased by over 36 pst. Why does the Council of State think it is right to raise more and more money from ordinary people in taxes, while the country's wealthiest has received huge tax cuts?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e812	The increase in the electricity price in January this year has brought much attention. The Norwegian power supply is very weather-dependent, and low rainfall rates thus contribute to higher power prices. In addition, prices in the European electricity market have increased due to increased quota prices and increased commodity prices of coal, which in turn affect power prices in Norway. Norway has been trading power with the rest of the world since the 1960s. External trade in electricity provides good security of supply and helps to balance prices. This increases predictability in power markets for both producers and consumers. An analysis from the NVE shows that the power price without intermediate connections could actually be two to three times higher in winter when the filling capacity of the water storage plants is low. For several years while the Senterpartiet was in government, the electricity prices for households were higher than now, but we did not see the Senterpartiet fighting to lower the electricity charge. The electricity charge was not reduced over eight years with the Senterpartiet in government. The party's last greeting as a government party was to propose to increase the electricity tax by 1.12 kroner in 2013. In that year, households also had high electricity costs, so the central party's concern for those who are struggling with high electricity bills is very unlikely. This government has reduced the electricity charge from this year. It's only happened once before. It was under the last bourgeois government, in 2002. High electricity prices particularly hit families with poor advice. The government has therefore proposed to increase housing support to help households with low incomes cover high electricity bills. For example, a five-year-old family will receive an additional payment of NOK 3430 through this proposal. Municipalities also have the opportunity to take electricity costs into account when assessing the need for social assistance. Also in the revised national budget presented yesterday, we propose to further strengthen housing aid from 1 July by 66 million. kr, to improve living conditions for children. 18 000 families with children will receive up to NOK 8 000 more in housing aid each year. Then it's worth remembering again that the tax pressure has been greatly reduced during this government. This means that a normal family with two full-time incomes will pay NOK 10 000 less in taxes this year than in 2013. This gives room for a household to meet higher heating costs when it's cold. The most important thing for people's wallets is that they have a job to go to. The unemployment rate is the lowest in ten years. More people come to work, especially in the districts, and it should not least be the Center Party happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e829	Former oil and energy minister Tord Lien of the Progress Party said when he took over after the Central Party Council, that he had the goal that the electricity price should go up, he believed that the electricity price in Norway was too low – expressed to Today's Business. The progress of the government has provided for a higher electricity price. They have increased the electricity charge by 36 pst. It is a fact that the electricity charge is 36 pst. today higher than it was in 2013. You increased it first by 5 cents, and then you put it down again by 1 cent, and then you boast that you've put it down by a fifth of what you've increased the electricity charge. This affects common families. It has become more expensive, it has become more demanding. The government has also changed the policy to allow the construction of a clean export cable – NorthConnect – for which the Central Party amended the law so that it would not be possible to do so. Why does the Progress Party in the Government want to have such a high fee level on electricity, and why would it want to facilitate a clean export cable on electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e840	Electricity prices are put on the market and are not politically controlled. It's not this government's policy to start controlling power prices. But it's now such that if the Central Party had taken the trouble to go through their own voting in the various budgets that have been adopted under this government, they would have found a lot strange. There have been many proposals in the budget negotiations in Stortinget that have not been submitted by this government, and that – yes – have resulted in an increase in the electricity charge, for which the Senterpartiet has been responsible. But in addition to its alternative budget for the current year, the Central Party has proposed raising taxes by 4.3 billion. kr. Thus, in the opposition, the Senterpartie proposed increased fuel charges, increased annual car charges, they voted against lower tolls, and they have proposed increased one-off charges. Fortunately, the Centre Party has not been able to see through all these tax increases or sharps, which they systematically put into their alternative budgets. This government reduces the tax burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e847	Siv Jensen knows very well that she, as Minister of Finance, has increased fuel taxes more in one year than what happened in eight red-green years – that is stated by Erna Solberg. She knows very well that we had a lower level of electricity charges in our alternative budget, and that we have voted against increases from the government in terms of electricity charges. Thanks to the sky-high power prices, Statkraft has gone with a great deal of profit. The finance minister takes a little over 1 billion. kr in additional dividends in the revised national budget due to the fact that Statekraft is making a lot of money. When the power price is high, you can take a lot of dividends. When the government takes in so much money thanks to high power prices – why can't the government in the revised national budget propose to reduce the electricity charge and refund some of the money that Norwegian consumers have paid in the last half of the year through higher electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e862	This Minister of Finance and this government has reduced the total tax burden by 25 billion. kr since we joined the government. It is in stark contrast to the Centre Party and the parties with which the Centre Party is committed to cooperating, which are competing to provide alternative budgets with the highest possible increase in the level of taxation overall for ordinary people. It's worth noting, because it's the answer from the opposition in a situation where we're going to create more and more welfare systems. It's about sending the tax bill right back to most people, or Norwegian companies, who we depend on for more jobs. All income entering the state fund, whether it be dividends from state corporations or tax receipts from ordinary people, contributes to the financing of our welfare society. They will go to finance the police, as the government has strengthened in the revised budget, they will go to finance a better elderly care, a better community economy and a better hospital. So that's a lot of purpose. I didn't think the Senter party had now become a follower of earmarking some income for tax reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e872	‘The government has asked the Food Authority to take action to improve the protection of children and young people from health damage caused by high consumption of energy drinks. Several measures are proposed by the Food Authority – for example, a regulatory limit on the level of caffeine in energy drinks and more mandatory guidelines for self-regulation of the market. What is the government doing to protect children and young people under 18 years of age from the harmful use of energy drinks, and what action will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e879	I am, as the representative Toppe, concerned with protecting children and young people from the unfortunate health consequences of high consumption of energy drinks. In recent years, there has been a large increase in the marketing of such beverages to children and young people and, as a result, concern for adverse health effects among children and young people. Some actors have called for the introduction of an age limit for the purchase of such beverages. The Ministry therefore asked the Food Authority to propose concrete measures to prevent children and young people from being harmed by a high intake. There is a particularly high intake of caffeine that is worrying. The Ministry has received the Food Authority's proposal. Its name is, among other things, that, in current intake patterns, a medium intake of caffeine from energy drinks alone will not pose a health risk to children and adolescents. This applies only as long as the consumption of energy drinks does not increase further, the level of caffeine in energy drinks does not increase and the intake of caffeine from other foods and beverages does not increase. The Danish Food Safety Authority believes that a statutory age limit for the purchase and sale of energy drinks is too invasive now. However, in the report, the Food Safety Authority proposes a number of other measures to protect children and young people from health damage caused by high consumption of these beverages, including: by attaching an upper limit of caffeine to energy drinks. The report also emphasises the importance of increasing the level of knowledge about caffeine and energy drinks by strengthening information through different channels aimed at children and young people. Other recommended measures are the further development of industry’s own guidelines, the involvement of health authorities in this work, and careful monitoring of the placing on the market and consumption of these beverages. I now assess the measures proposed and will conclude on the follow-up in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e886	We've been busy with this area of the Storting before. I have also addressed it with the former Minister for Older People and Public Health and got the impression that action should be assessed in the Public Health Communication. Now we see that there is a reference to the Food Authority's report and that action will be considered in the future. I think it would have been natural if the Storting could discuss this matter when we have the public health report for consideration, that there will be no assessment in the future. I also record that the Swedish Food Safety Authority believes that an age limit is too invasive, but that they have other regulatory measures that can contribute to the same. Can the Council of State say something more to the Storting today about what action one is planning to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e895	We have received this report from the Food Safety Authority, which I will now go into carefully to assess which of these measures it would be right to initiate. What we agree on at least is that it is not desirable to develop where children and young people use so much of these products that this leads to health damage. That is why I believe that the job that is now done is very good because you have also gone into and looked at the extent to which these products must be consumed in order to be harmful to health, you look at what is happening today, and not least what different proposals can be made. I need to spend some more time – I hope that the representative Toppe understands – and then we will come back with the suggestions we want to make soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e902	I am pleased that the Council of State is at least clear that one is concerned about an excessive intake of energy among children and young people. My concern just goes on the extra translation, she was probably at 20 pst. Last year, where children and young people are the large customer group. Even if one cannot say that moderate intake is a health hazard, we know that there are side effects that are not good, which are also reported by half of the users, i.e. children and young people. There are some trade regulation already in place, but it's different. Does the Council of State think that industrial regulation, taking initiatives towards the industry and bringing them together to achieve a common age limit, can be a serious measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e909	As far as age limits are concerned, it is not one of the proposals made by the Food Safety Authority, because it is considered to be too intrusive. I fully agree with that. That being said, there shall soon be a meeting with the food category which produces these products and which sells the products in this market. Then it is quite natural to address this question as well. The Health and Welfare Committee has been invited to that meeting on 4 June, and this will be a topic. I think it's important to cooperate with the industry, see what they can do, and what they think about these questions, and get good cooperation in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e926	The question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Regarding question 4, the questioner is not present in the room, so we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e936	«People who have been paid too much money from Nav, despite the fact that Nav has been notified of the error, have to repay the gross amount with short maturities. Of the gross amount, tax payments have been made, while only the net amount has been paid to the beneficiary. It may be up to one and a half years before the person receives a bill from the tax authorities. This creates too many a major liquidity problem. Does the Council of State consider this to be an appropriate way of correcting the errors made by Nav?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e943	The question asked by the representative Aasrud on the handling of overpaid benefits by the State of Labour and Welfare is a good and relevant question. I have received information from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare stating that the recipient only pays the net amount back to the department if both the error payment and the decision to refund occur during the same year. In this case, the recipient shall not repay the part of the amount wrongly paid that has been deducted from tax. This part of the wrongly paid amount will return the tax rate to the residence of employment and welfare. However, the decision of the recipient must be made on the gross amount wrongly paid, as the amount recovered from the tax receipt is formally and effectively required to be recovered from the recipient. The beneficiary is informed of this in the decision. If the error payment extends over several years, a gross recovery decision is taken. The recipient must then also pay back the part of the mispaid amount deducted from the tax to the employment and welfare seat. In such cases, the tax rate will assess whether there is a basis for changing the previous tax settlement. That the recipient has to pay back to the residence of work and welfare also the amount deducted from tax was introduced in 2009. Int. O. No 35 for 2008-2009, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The proposal not to deduct VAT due as a result of the payment of errors in the event of recovery pursuant to § 22-15 is retained. The amount of the refund should correspond to the additional burden on social security resulting from the payment of the error. The rules open to reasonable consideration when setting the refund requirement. There did not seem to be enough reason to relax even more on the refund claim. The Employment and Welfare Act must enable the social worker to go to the tax rate and to have the tax settlement revised when there is a basis for doing so.’ If the user has liquidity problems, a amortisation plan may be agreed upon. It also follows from the Coverage Act that the user should always have the means of necessary living back. It is a goal of the department to introduce net collection in all cases. This has been facilitated by amending the tax-paying regulation in 2017. The conversion of practices so that net collection can be carried out automatically in all cases requires system changes that have not yet been implemented. In the case of parental leave, such a solution will be clear during the year. It is uncertain when such a solution may have been developed for all benefits managed by the Employment and Welfare Act. This will come successively as part of the ongoing ICT modernisation in the establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e959	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and at least I understand that the Council of State sees this as a problem. The specific case I have been briefed on is a person who for nearly half a year received too much sick pay from Nav, despite the fact that in several rounds you were informed that you should not have paid this money. After contacting the local Nav office, it was stopped in January this year. That means that the person would then have a tax settlement that would not be completed until next June, and would have to have liquidity to pay what is then the tax, for a year and a half. It doesn't feel right for the person in question. Now this case is appealed to the Board of Appeal in Nav, without this person having received any guidance on how to arrange the relationship with the tax authorities. I hope the Council of State can address this and ensure that the tax charge can be met until it is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e966	I may not be able to deal with this matter in a case, but I agree with the representative that it is very unfortunate that fault payments are generally made, and of course especially in the cases where the user has also made Nav aware that it is a mistake. I fully understand that it feels unreasonable. But it is also the case that when the user has made Nav aware of it, Nav can do a – what to say – indebtedness assessment and see if they should be able to fail in whole or in part, without I know that there is something that could be done in this case. But here, there's also a possibility for Nav, where it's obvious that it's unreasonable for the user to be able to put undue pressure on him. Through the appropriations made by Stortinget, among others: In the last few years, ICT solutions in Nav will also make it easier for Nav both to get the right information at the right time and to discover different payment methods more quickly. The fact that there are now fewer complaints than before is probably a sign that this work produces good results, or at least better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e975	I understand that there is a need for ICT solutions here, but at the same time, when you get the answer from the user when you turn to Nav, they don't understand what you're complaining about, when you've got too much money, it's a bit of a greedy starting point. I hope that the Council of State asks Nav to make sure that you can use the usual discretion in these matters, despite the fact that you do not have ICT solutions that can be an automatic solution to the problem. For each individual, it is of little help that you have work to do with ICT solutions when you stand there and perhaps have to pay 60 000–70 000 kroner more back to Nav than what you have actually paid. I really hope that the Council of State can make sure that Nav actually does the discretion they should do, regardless of whether you have an ICT system or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e982	A few years ago, many and, in part, large fault payments from Nav were discovered, for a slightly different reason. Often this is because the user deliberately provides crazy information, but in other cases it is not because of it, but because it is wrong with Nav himself. In this context, Nav developed an error-payment strategy to deal with some old issues. One went through many old cases manually and discovered that there were mispayments, which are corrected. When I mention this with ICT, it's also because in some cases it's hard for Nav to get the right information. Information can be provided in several places; it has not been good enough systems. It is now, both through the A system and through a new public register, but also through other solutions. As I mentioned in my previous answer, Nav already has an opportunity to make an assessment of the debt issue and whether it is reasonable for the user to pay all or only part of the amount. It is up to Nav to assess in the individual cases, but I agree that it is unfortunate with this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e991	Then we go back to the previous question, which is from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister of Industry. The President recalls that it is the representative’s responsibility to be present in time to ask the question in due time, in the interest of the Council of State present.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1001	This question, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1008	I'm just sorry. I'm in the other building, and it went a little faster than expected. The question is: ‘In Hordaland, three areas are considered marine protected areas. The local politicians are positive to Lurfjorden, but critical to the process of protecting the agricultural fjords of Crossfjorden and Outer Hardangerfjorden, which will give great limits to what we live on today and in the future. Local politicians feel that the State does not make use of available knowledge and balances different social interests with protection interests. How does the Council of State ensure that sustainable use and value creation are emphasised in the protection processes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1017	Preservation of valuable marine nature contributes to ensuring the proper functioning of ecosystems. Therefore, marine protection is important both for conservation and for long-term harvesting and value creation based on marine resources. Marine protected areas are established to maintain a representative sample of marine nature and to ensure the diversity of species and habitat types. These areas are also reference areas for research and environmental monitoring. In 2004, 36 sites were recommended as marine protected areas. For the time being, seven of these areas are protected. The establishment of marine protection areas is the result of thorough processes. Following the launch of a protection process by the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Directorate-General for the Environment, the County is preparing a protection proposal for the protection area in question. Following the preparation of the draft consultation, the county council will send the proposal to the Environment Directorate at the hearing and, following a summary of the opinions received, will advise it. The Environment Directorate then advises the Ministry of Climate and Environment. A decision, if any, shall be taken by a royal resolution. Sustainable use and value creation are assessed at the different stages of the protection process. Within the protection zones, in line with the protection objective in question, any activity likely to impair the protection values is regulated. Activities that do not conflict with the purpose of protection will continue to be permitted. Marine protection is therefore not an obstacle to activity which does not harm the protection values.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1026	I have read well on the process itself, and it is very clear in the circular that you need to put emphasis on local anchoring to get accepted to protect areas. In the two fjords of use that I mentioned in my question, there is a great deal of activity today, and there is also a great deal of activity to be done in the future: algae production, sea tourism and various opportunities to grow both today's seafood and new varieties. Those who live by the sea are perhaps the ones who are most concerned that we have healthy and clean water. The question is, and I repeat, those who have the local knowledge do not feel that they have the good dialogue. Five years have passed – there are some theorists who refer to circulars and laws, etc., but they do not care for commercial interests. How do you ensure that? And then it's really very diffuse what's not in conflict with the protection area. It has to be concrete for nutritionists to know what they can bet on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1031	I can't comment on exactly the three processes. They are to be sent to the Ministry of Climate and Environment for treatment with a recommendation from the Environment Directorate and the Ministry. It is expected in 2019. We already have ten of these protected areas in the department, and we will present a major issue in 2020 on marine protected areas and how to protect a representative sample. So there could be individual things outside of it. But we have to keep to the principle that these areas have been selected because they have protective values, great values, within the marine area. The background is that there has been activity there, but the values have been preserved. The limits must be on what threatens the values of protection – if you agree that they should be taken care of – and not on what is not a threat. After all, protection does not mean that all activity stops, but that the protection values are ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1036	There is often a connection between what is good marine areas, and areas where there has been activity up to now and you want to have further activity. The challenge remains: how do you get to the interaction and put into practice the active knowledge that is in the fields? As I understood it when I took part in debates during Arendalsuka, Norway has a strict administration. It's going to give you greater acceptance for use. After all, the purpose of administration is precisely to protect, so that future use is not destroyed. How do you balance it and give clear signals – instead of having an unforeseeable chance of knowing whether it is allowed by brewing, by aquaculture facilities, etc., instead of having to go through a long process of applying for a derogation? It is not known how the areas are now described by the County of Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1041	Individuals I have to stay away from, but in Norway, we have management plans for our marine areas, which are a model also internationally. We have a good management of the seas in Norway. At the same time, we should follow up on the commitments we have under the UN Bio diversity Convention, the Aichi objectives, which are talking about 10 pst. the protection of areas. As for how much natural loss we have, the state is generally good in Norway, but we have to ensure – also in the light of the UN report – that we have a representative protection of the marine areas in Norway as well. I guess for now it's 3.1 pst. Which is protected, but it's not just the percentages it's about, it's about protecting the most important thing. We're following up on the 36, and that's the same thing we're thinking: we have to have limits where it threatens protection values, but not unnecessary restrictions where there is no threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1082	These questions have to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1102	These questions have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1110	‘In today’s Business in the past week, the Ministry of Defence has been challenged about the method for determining the exchange rate in the fighter aircraft programme. The central statistical agency used previously complicated methods for currency forecasts, but has gone over to use today’s price, which provides equally good predictions. In the questionnaire last week, Prime Minister Solberg said that the method used is the one used all the way. What kind of method does the Ministry of Defence use to set exchange rates, and is there an assessment of whether this method is the best predictor?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1117	The Kampfly programme conducts an annual economic uncertainty analysis of the acquisition of fighter aircraft. This is done in close cooperation with the Defence Research Institute. The analysis is carried out using the same methodology as used when the acquisition cost framework was adopted in 2012. This is done to ensure a consistent and objective calculation of costs over time. When the acquisition of fighting aircraft was approved, a method of currency calculation was chosen on the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance's external quality assurance. This is described in Annex 2 to Prop. 73 S for 2011-2012. The calculation is based on an expected future dollar rate for each year of payments expected to occur. In order to ensure that the currency assumption is as objective as possible, the time for observations is set in good time before they are made. Observations are collected from the Ministry of Finance over a tidal period. The currency string is based on daily observed exchange rates and interest differences. The exchange rate used is the weighted average of this currency string. Since the acquisition of fighting aircraft was approved in 2012, the dollar rate has varied from DKK 5.44 to NOK 8.96. For the payments already made, the uncertainty analyses used the actual dollar rate at the time of payment. The calculated exchange rate is used for the outstanding payments. As part of the work on uncertainty analyses, the Swedish Defence Research Institute carried out a new study in 2016 on how the fighter aircraft programme should handle currency and currency security in its cost calculations. This report is publicly available. In the report, the Swedish Defence Research Institute reviews differing theory and empirical studies on exchange rates, including the methodology referred to in Today's Business. The Swedish Defence Research Institute recommended that the fighter aircraft programme continue to use the methodology used since the start of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1130	After all, there was no assessment of whether this method is good in the opinion of the Council of State. The reason why this is relevant to ask is that the exchange rate seems to be one of the important reasons for – as the Minister of Defence has acknowledged in a letter to me – that the probability of reaching the management target for the flight purchase is lower than before and that this does not appear clearly in the budget because of what appears to be unrealistic assessments of the exchange rate. Since the exchange rate is central, I can therefore imagine asking why it is only now, in a written response from the Council of State, that the Stortinget is informed that the probability of reaching the management target is lower than before, and not where the information should have been provided, namely in the State budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1137	The premise for the question is wrong. This is the information we've been giving all along. I referred to the study from the Defence Research Institute, which reviews the different methods you can use to create predictions for currency, and they recommend continuing with the method you've used. If an exchange rate is high over a long period of time, higher than initially calculated, the probability of reaching the control target will decrease. But that's not the case. This is a confession that has been clear all along. There are many years left of the fighter aircraft program. It's not like we can put two lines today in the answer to what the fighter aircraft program will cost. We're operating on predictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1146	It is wrong that this is a recognition that has been there all along, because the recognition that it is less likely than before to achieve the management goal is new. It seems to have been there when the government presented the government budget, because previous references to the governance objective in the budget documents were taken out. And it's clearly there now, because the Minister of Defense has admitted in a written reply to me that the probability of reaching the goal is lower than before. This is obviously important information when Stortinget is going to decide on the purchase of several fighter aircraft, which Stortinget was going to harvest. How can the Minister of Defence feel that it was not relevant to make it clear to the Storting that, in the context of the budget proposal, the probability of reaching the governance target was lower than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1153	I still disagree with the premise for both the question and the conclusion that the representative delivers from the pulpit. We're talking about governance goals, and we're talking about cost frameworks. We are within the cost framework of the forecasts available. The governance objective, with the cost reductions made, shows that the fighter aircraft project as such – if you keep the currency out of it – delivers very well. Future developments depend on more things than just the currency. It depends on the price development of the aircraft, it depends on the efficiency – that is, the reduction in price, which you have so far very good experience with and very good history on – and it depends on the currency part. We have not underestimated this kind of information. This has been in all the propositions that have been delivered since the adoption of the fighter aircraft programme in 2011-2012. There are forecasts, and so far we are within the cost framework. So we're on a safe footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1163	‘According to the Ministry of Defence, 37 pst. the purchase of the fighter aircraft paid at the end of 2018. The forecasts for future exchange rates will vary, but we know the price of already paid bills. How much have we paid in Norwegian kroner for the payments made so far in the fighter aircraft program, and how much does the Ministry of Defence estimate that the remaining payments will arrive at, in the currency in which they are to be paid – which will mainly be US dollars – and based on what exchange rate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1170	By the end of 2018, approximately 30 billion have been paid. NOK of the expected cost of the acquisition. This was briefed by Stortinget in the 2019 draft budget. In the 2019 budget, we informed Stortinget that the latest uncertainty analysis shows an expected cost of 82.7 billion. kr. This means that payments are left at the top of 50 billion. kr. About 85-90 pst. of remaining acquisition costs are expected to accrue in dollars. For the remaining payments, we have based an average dollar rate of 7.7. We have used the same methodology as the Ministry of Finance's quality assurance recommended when the cost framework was adopted in 2012 and as the Swedish Defence Research Institute recommended to continue in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1177	I thank you for your answer. Here we have established – as also the questioner in the previous question, Lightbaking – that the SSB has gone over to another methodology to calculate the exchange rate. Then we hear in the answer here that you still base an exchange rate of 7.7 on the further uncertainty estimates. I am tempted to ask the Minister for Defence: when one sees that an important professional environment such as the SSB is changing its methods, should it not provide a basis for the Ministry of Defence to assess whether the calculations and assessments now made at the exchange rate – which has proved to be too low – are correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1184	As I also said to the previous questioner, we have made those assessments. We got the FFI to review the methodology. The FFI still believes that for this programme it is right to continue with the methodology we have. Every year we do uncertainty analysis and predict what the cost development of the fighter aircraft program will be like for the next few years. It's not that we decide today for an exchange rate, and then it stays standing all the time. We do this uncertainty analysis every year, and then we inform the Storting about it. Therefore, we believe that we are good within, all the time the forecasts also this year keep us within the cost framework set by Stortinget for the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1191	The fact that the uncertainty assessments are carried out each year is good and good, but Stortinget has not been informed that the probability of reaching the management target is lower. They are made, but without providing the Storting with information that the probability of reaching the management target has been lowered. Why has it not been stated in the budget papers of the Storting that this is now less likely?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1196	The probability is lower now than it was in the past because the predictions for the dollar price have remained high. But this is a program that has many years left. Therefore, it is important to consider the methodology used. The methodology we use is recommended by the FFI. It's the one chosen by the quality assurance authorities in the past. It is the Stortinget approved when they said yes to the project. When we carry out the uncertainty analysis and still stay within the cost framework, we believe that we are on a safe basis. Then we'll inform Stortinget if we see that we're outside the cost framework. But it's not that it's unknown -- neither the methodology of this nor what kind of follow a sustained high dollar rate could get for the program.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1206	‘The size has adopted an uncertainty provision for the purchase of the fighter aircraft. The calculations for the total costs are now above the management objective, but within the cost framework, according to the Ministry of Defence. In response to written questions from SV, the Council of State says that ‘We have not had to push so far on other projects to finance the acquisition of fighter aircraft’. At the same time, it has not been decided where to take the money from. What investment in the Defence will have to give up when one has to start using the Uncertainty provision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1213	Since 2016, Stortinget has been informed that a high dollar price may result in the acquisition governance framework not being achieved. The annual uncertainty analyses are a snapshot. A number of conditions may change the estimated final cost of acquisition. Whether the acquisition will remain within the management objective will depend on the impact of the cost-reduction measures implemented, the outcome of future negotiations, and not least the development of the exchange rate over the next six years. Therefore, it is premature to specify the allocation requirement for the acquisition of combat aircraft in the remaining years of acquisition. If there is a need to use all or part of the uncertainty provision, the government will assess this need for funding in full against other projects and areas of activity. This will normally come back to the government in the annual budget proposals, which is entirely in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1218	To put it in perspective: In 2013, Bergen’s magazine wrote about which projects the defense had to push on at the time as a result of the flight purchase. Among other things, it was a matter of: on 10 projects in the Army, 11 in the Marine and 12 in the Air Force. Many of these issues have been the subject of intense political debates. There were tactical transport helicopters, there were armoured vehicles, suspension of submarine purchases, for example. It's interesting reading with today's eyes. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State really believes that it is not interesting at this stage to disclose the fact that it is estimated that an uncertainty reserve of 10,5 billion is used up. kr, when it was 3 billion. kr in 2013. Would it not have any impact on other investments in the Defence that it is interesting to inform the paper about as of today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1223	It is completely wrong that we have had to push something for the purpose of the fighter aircraft program. The fight Ly program is a priority. On a long list of things the defense will do, we have thorough processes, democratic processes, to give priority to what we're going to bet on. The martial arts program was given priority. We use the Chief of Defense's professional military advice. There are a number of projects below what is prioritised, but it is according to operational capability, according to how we will develop the Defence. It's not about anything that you don't get for reasons of changes in the cost picture of the fighter aircraft program. It's a misrepresentation. Whether it is from the Official Journal of Bergen, or whether it comes from the representative himself, I do not know, but it is completely incorrect. As I said, there are a number of issues that will affect the price picture of the aircraft acquisition in the future, and we are operating with annual budgets in Stortinget. We will return to the annual budgets with the priorities that we believe need to be set according to developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1230	If we accept the answer that it has not been necessary, and will not be necessary, to push on any investments due to flight costs, it must be because it has never been planned. The case from 2013, as the Council of State can see in Bergen's Official Journal itself, clearly shows that the defense has had to prioritize the Army and the Maritime Defense, with eleven projects in the Marine, ten projects in the Army and twelve in the Air Force – and that as a cost of 3.2 billion. I'll pay you back at that time. Now we're talking about maybe 10 billion. kr, and until the autumn, it has been stipulated that the last six aeroplanes are to be ordered. My last question to the Council of State is: Will the Minister of Defense then insist on the same number of planes, no matter what the cost is in the fighter aircraft program?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1235	Finally, there is an assessment that we will come back to when we get to Stortinget with possible purchases of the last ones. This is not going to be more correct because things have been in Bergen's Official Journal. In fact, we have a thorough process of how we prioritise investment in Defence. That someone in the Army wants something, but that the budgets don't go far, isn't about pushing things around for the cost picture on the fighter aircraft program. No, the fighter aircraft program has saved 8 billion compared to the 2012 forecast when it was adopted. kr. That's 8 billion. kr cheaper. Then the currency is a challenge that lies next to it, which was both described when the proposition was made, and has been described in all reporting from government to the Stortinget, also afterwards. We're going to come back – we're going back in the annual budgets with how we prioritise investment in Defence, and we're going back in the long-term plan next spring with how we imagine the long-term development of Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1243	This question, from the representative Katrine Boel Gregussen to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1248	‘In connection with the decision to purchase 52 F-35 fighter aircraft, a management target for the purchase and a cost framework was adopted. The difference between the two is the uncertainty provision. A number of articles in the Official Journal of Bergen have recently presented figures suggesting that this uncertainty provision is about to be used up due to increased expenditure on the purchase of fighter aircraft. What is the price-adjusted uncertainty provision for today, and when is it expected that the Ministry of Defence will have to use it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1255	Let me begin by reminding you that the government has kept Stortinget continuously informed about the cost development of the fighter aircraft acquisition. Since 2016, we have been briefing on how the expected cost lies in relation to the price-adjusted governance framework and cost power. The uncertainty provision for the acquisition of fighting aircraft is approximately 10,5 billion. 2019-kroner. There is the difference between the price-adjusted governance framework and the cost framework, as we briefed the Storting on at the latest in the budget proposal for 2019. The annual uncertainty analyses are a snapshot. A number of conditions may change the estimated final cost of acquisition. The cost of acquisition will depend on the impact of the cost-reduction measures implemented, the outcome of future negotiations and not least the development of exchange rates over the next six years. It's too early to say that we will have to use the uncertainty provision, and then how much it will be. We will have to come back to that when we see the further cost developments in the programme. There are still six years left of the proposed acquisition. I haven't rejected the board of directors. There is still the framework fighter program to work for and stay inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1266	When it becomes less likely that one will reach the governance goal, as the Council of State has briefed Stortinget on questions from Audun Lyssbakken, provides a smaller amount of information to Stortingen in the budget. It is clear that then the alarm clocks are going on at Stortinget, because there is a huge amount of money, and it could have quite unintentional consequences for both defence and well-being, as I am hearing from the Council of State argue here. When it comes to the information that the Storting had to take out of the Council of State, that it was less likely that one would reach the governance goal, that one would have to start spending more money, the question of whether the Council of State has at any time been informed that it was very little likely that one would achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1271	First I have to be allowed to file that all the information that Bergen's Official Journal has in this case has been obtained from the documents that the government has supplied to Stortinget. It's not like we've subdued any knowledge. If the representative does not know, it is because he has not read or does not understand what is in the documents. The timing of any use of the uncertainty provision will depend on the cost evolution of the programme. Then I have to clarify: the term 'forecast' is about a vision of the future. It's not that we see a forecast of cost developments, currency developments, and then we've used the uncertainty provision. If we are to use the uncertainty provision, we must return to Stortinget in the budget documents and disclose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1278	Governments have just explained that the forecast looks worse now. So it's less likely now to achieve the control goal – that is, one thinks you're going in the wrong direction. The fear of Stortinget is that one is already looking at the uncertainty provision, which will have major consequences for the rest of the budget for which the Stortinget is responsible. Then it's very interesting for the Storting to know why. Or let me put it another way, because we actually know that the information for the Storting was worse in the state budget. Then the question is, has the Council of State been told at any time that it is very little likely to achieve the governance objective of this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1283	Firstly, the information contained in the State budget is not worse than it has been. What the Council of State has been told, it is fully possible to read to it, because what I have been told about the project, we have informed the Stortingen about in the budget proposals, the documents we have supplied. Regular information has been provided. So a prognosis is not two lines below the answer. A prognosis is a picture of the future. A forecast does not say anything, as the representative here suggested, that one has used the uncertainty provision. No, you haven't. So far we have not had to push on anything for the purpose of the fighter aircraft program. It has gone within the framework proposed. It has been significantly saved in relation to the forecasts for the governance target, and then there is a currency challenge that we have openly informed about throughout our government. There's nothing hidden here. If there is information missing from the representative, you can only read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1293	This question, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, will be raised by the representative of Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1298	‘How does the Council of State feel that the management of the North University has followed up a royal resolution and the merger platform between the College of Nesna, the University of Northern Trondelag and the University of Nordland, and does the Council of State consider that the follow-up is in line with the steering signals given in this case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1303	Nord universitet has been established by two royal resolutions: one on the University of Nordland, the University of Nesna and the University of Nord-Trøndelag and one on the University of Nordland and the University of Nesna. Both the two royal resolutions refer primarily to the objectives set by the institutions for the merger. They do not impose any restrictions on the powers conferred by the law on the Board of Directors of the university. The first resolution says: ‘The institutions have taken the view that the pooling will provide a new university, which will contribute to the promotion of a sustainable and value-creating social and labour life, strengthen the national knowledge base and contribute to a better regional distribution of competences and knowledge development for the future. Research and education at the university shall be characterised by closeness between the university, society, public sector, business and students. The development of new and innovative forms of work shall also be central to the activities of the university.’;» I believe that North University is working hard to meet these goals. The Governing Board's decision on the study structure is part of the development agreement concluded between the Ministry and the University and is a development agreement concluded after dialogue between the University and the Ministry. As I know, before the board would deal with the matter of the report from the principal, in the form of a letter, I have come up with some points of view that I think it is important that the board assesses. The Governing Board even requested further clarifications in addition to those already presented in the Vice-Chancellor’s report, and the proposal for a new study location structure has been put to the consultation so that even more views can be heard and evaluated before a decision is taken. I think this shows that the board has had a good follow-up to the steering signals given.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1321	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In Steinkjer, Nord University will move from a building of 10,000 m2 where Steinkjere municipality has invested 450 million. kr. According to the NRK Trøndelag, the university has committed to pay a rent of 180 million. kr over a 10-year period. At Nesna, the rent for the ten-year contract that remains will amount to 240 million. kr. There are also costs associated with moving from other places of study. At the same time, Nord University promotes the need to extend the building stock to other sites, including: with Blue Construction in Bodø. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for Nord University to pay rents of several hundred million kroner for premises they do not want to use, while at the same time requiring the university to finance new buildings at each institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1333	The commitments made by Nord universitet are commitments that, as a matter of fact, will continue to apply – it will be a legal assessment. Blue construction in Bodø is something that they have also wanted for a while. I believe that when it comes to construction, when it comes to the obligations, the leases, which they have entered into, whether it be at Nesna or elsewhere, there is something that must be included in the assessment that the board is to make, together with other assessments that must also be taken into account before they reach their decision. Now we have sent this report to the hearing. Then I expect that there will be different views, different objections, different opinions on the different proposals contained in the report, and that is based on the overall nature of this board of directors, and future rental costs must be one part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1342	I thank the Council of State. What we have seen over time, both at the Nesna, in Lake Sandness, and also elsewhere, is that there has been a decline that has not been in line with what the Council of State has just quoted in the Royal Resolution to ‘strengthen the national knowledge pool and contribute to a better regional distribution of competences and knowledge development for the future’. Now, when we see that we're going to have a huge shortage of nurses in the years to come, we're going to have a huge shortage of teachers in the years to come -- don't you think then the council is unwise over time to have built up, unlike what was the intention of the merger talks, and unlike what is clear political goals both for society, as I understand it, and also for this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1351	In the letter that I sent to the board, one of the things that I have addressed there is the connection to health care companies. Getting enough nurses in the future is a challenge. That's a big need. But there's not necessarily a connection between the places of study and the number of students who graduate and where they are trained. I believe that not only for Nord University, but for all of our hospitals that provide nurse training, we need to have a good dialogue with health companies to get enough practice places, and we need to make sure that we can have decentralised education in the rest of the country to ensure that the municipalities out there get the skills and the workforce they need. I think that's a big challenge that we're facing now, and that's not just about North University. But the training of nurses and the need for such labour as it provides are absolutely something I believe the board has to take with them when they are going to make the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1365	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1373	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Immigration the following questions: «In recent years, we have seen a large increase in issues relating to family violence and violence in close relations. Project November and other measures have found that in some environments and in some areas, this type of physical and mental violence can often be associated with culture of honor, social control, plans for arranged marriages with press etc. Today, there is no record in the criminal justice system that allows statistics to be made on the number of such cases. Does the Council of State agree that it is important to know how much of the increase in violence in close relations is associated with culture of honor and social control, and will he agree to introduce a separate coding and recording of such cases in the criminal justice system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1382	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for his commitment to an area in which the government has placed quite high on the political agenda. Violence in close relationships has many expressions. It can be about violence and abuse against current or former partners, about children, grandchildren or other close relatives, about children who experience violence from their own parents, or about rape and sexual mutilation. Whatever form the violence takes, this is a serious crime that affects the victim, most of all where he should be safest, namely his own home. Through our law, we are very clear that culture, customs, religion, tradition or so-called honor should never be able to legitimize acts of violence. It is also reflected in the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Violence in Close Relations, which Norway ratified in 2017. With regard to coding, including today's coding, in the criminal justice system, the division of the provisions of the criminal law is largely the result. What is requested by the representative, Mr Bøhler, is about the motive behind the criminal offence, and it is somewhat more complicated to register in the criminal record. Different motives will often be associated with one and the same action, for example: A violent act can be linked to both honor and jealousy, and it can also be a matter of mental problems and addiction. In addition, knowledge of the motive behind the action will gradually emerge in the prosecution and in the judicial process of criminal proceedings. I still think the issue is important. We want to go further and examine whether this is simply practicable, and whether it provides the necessary and valuable information, so that you can perhaps get even closer to being able to prevent in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1395	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for clearly expressing interest in going into it. In Sweden, as early as 2012, the Crime Prevention Council, BRÅ, issued a report that honorary violence is not being identified, and wanted to do something about it. A survey model was created in Sweden called Patriark, where one tries to bring forward the aspects of these acts of violence relating to honor. There's a lot more to it than what we have in Norway. Astrid Anne Holm, the section leader for the investigation of violence in close relations in the East of Oslo police district, and her investigator Jasmina Holten has taken up the same here, that we have great darkness, and that there are legal cases in which honorary violence really lies, without it appearing in the investigation and in the proceedings. Then the big hole in the way the matter is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1404	The risk tool SARA, Spousal Assault Risk Assessment Guide, and Patriark are now being introduced into all the police districts of the country. There are tools that will help structure police work on threat assessments on issues related to partner violence and honour-related violence. In 2014, a dedicated research project on violence in close relations was launched and will now be continued for a five-year period until 2024. I fully agree with Mr Bøhler's objection that we know too little about this. We have about 3,500 things about violence in close relationships every year in Norway. Clearly, we have too little information on which of the issues specifically related to forced marriage, sexual mutilation and violence have been carried out due to this. honor as a motive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1411	I also thank you for the additional response, and I would like to stress the seriousness of finding that if it's about honorary violence, it's something even more extensive and gross than traditional violence in close relationships, which is also very rough. It's clear, it's an honor, it's a clan, it's a big family, it's behind, it's also related to how they operate in the country of origin or home. There's going to be some sort of organized crime where some people are being pressured into performing the violence on behalf of the big family. Then you have to investigate those who are behind it, those who order the action and push it through. So the police have to do a much bigger operation than just treating it as a single act of violence with one perpetrator. That's why the seriousness of this is that there's a lot of things we don't have to do in the Norwegian community that we don't see, as long as we don't register this. I would like to ask the Council of State if he sees that the cases and the investigation are completely different if you have this perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1418	I think the police are taking these matters very seriously. We have had several things that we have rolled up in Norway. What we're afraid of is the big numbers of darkness. If it is solved by codifying matters a little differently in the criminal record, I am a little uncertain about it. But as I said, I think it's interesting and I'm going to go on to evaluate it. Then we have to consider whether it requires a disproportionate resource effort in relation to the result and the information value you get back. The most important thing is to have good enough investigators to be able to investigate these issues and to be aware of the complexity, as the representative Boehler well explained in his statement here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1426	This question, from the representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, will be raised by the representative of Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1431	‘Several Nordics experience rejection when they want to pay with cash, among others. in shops, health services and when they want to make deposits and withdrawals from banks. Despite clear advice from the Bank of Norway to tighten up the legislation and that the Stortinget has made it clear that the right to pay cash must be guaranteed, no legal action is announced by the government in the financial market notification of the year. Why does the Council of State train to safeguard the interests of cash users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1438	The financial market notification for 2019 shows that the Ministry of Justice and Security will take a closer look at the rules on the right to cash payment after the work on the new Financial Contracts Act. So the government has announced that it will look at this code. In other words, it is not a matter of training, but of dealing with important matters in turn and in order. It is not training that a bill is not presented to Stortinget at the very moment that a major representative has been taken up by it. It follows from Section 38 of the Financial Contracts Act that a consumer always has the right to settle cash. I agree that we should have as our starting point that a consumer should have the right to pay in cash. There may be a need to strengthen this right in certain situations. Especially for the most basic services, on which we all depend, such as food and transport. New cash-free solutions are constantly being developed, but we need to maintain that we can meet our basic needs at the same time without having to resort to cash-free payment solutions. Although you support the principle of the right to pay with cash, it is not easy to say that you should always have such a right. A number of questions are raised about how such a right should be applied in practice, and not least about how the law should be formulated. It's e.g. it is not obvious that it must apply without exception. You can, for example: do not charge cash when you shop online or buy an application for your mobile phone. In this context, I point out that the current provision of the Financial Contracts Act seems negligible at first sight, but that it has been shown to raise a number of interpretation issues. What does that mean, for example, that you have the right to pay with cash to the payee? Keeps it, for example. in the case of bus services, pay with cash at the transport provider's head office, or are you entitled to pay with cash on board all buses and trains, possibly at all bus stops? It may well be tempting to establish a rule that the customer should always have the right to pay with cash where the service is received, but then another issue arises: What about the electricity bill, e.g.? Should it be possible to pay cash where the flow is received? The latter is an example of challenges related to providing general rules that are practical in all situations. We have a law, the Financial Contracts Act, which was passed in 1999. I remember that law well. That was one of the first things I read about on the bus in 2000. There has been a part of the payment solutions since then. Now, the digitisation of payment solutions has come too far, and there are a number of new issues emerging. We need to deal with that in the new Financial Agreements Act. Then we have to have rules that hit, and you have to be precise, and it's actually pretty complicated to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1453	I thank you for your answer. It is not just a trust representative asking for this law change. According to an NTB case on 31 January 2019, the Governor of the Central Bank of Öystein Olsen has done so on the basis of a letter sent to the Ministry of Finance requesting it. I'm recording that the state councils are delaying the borderline cases. They're legally interesting, and one can have a lot of fun with them, but the reality in society is that even in those cases where it's clearer, it's about to slip out. Then it is important to make a political decision and put in place a law that ensures the cash's position. My question is, When can the Storting expect a bill from the government to do this, with a tightening of the obligation to pay with cash?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1462	We also have follow-up mechanisms within today's Financial Contracts Act, and if the payment service is in obvious violation of today's Financial Contracts Act, there are opportunities to go further. You can use the Marketing Act, and you can go to the Consumer Authority or the Market Council. But when it comes to following such a law, you can't use the criminal code, because this is a private law rule. We need to consider what kind of sanctions you can have, but you can't have sanctions without doing something that's against the law. Therefore, a precise law must be designed to ensure that those who have to pay with cash are given the opportunity to do so, while at the same time we manage to define it in such a way that we do not create inappropriate payment solutions in society. It's pretty complicated. This is, as I said, a 1999 law that now needs to be upgraded to deal with today’s situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1469	I thank you again for your answer. It is important to stress that this is not a right for those who have to pay with cash. It is important to have a payment solution that is not dependent on third parties and that may be in readiness. Effectiveness was also taken into account by the Governor. There is a wide range of practice, for example: in the hotel industry, where a advertiser advertises that one is a cash-free hotel. Among other things, a hotel that the government should know well, Hotel Jelö Radio, from 1 January 2019 was a so-called cash-free hotel. Sivert Bjørnstad, who is a fiscal spokesman in the Progress Party, says that this is a crime and should point out. He also says that one needs stronger sanctions against those who break the laws. Then my question is: Does the Council of State think it's okay to, for example, hotel becomes cash-free?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1480	As I have said, this is a rule of private law in the Financial Contracts Act. The Ministry of Justice and Defence does not have the competence to impose or sanction violations of this law. That is why I feel it is wrong to give an assessment here of whether a specific hotel has broken the law or not. We're going to promote a proposition for a new Financial Contract Law during this fall. There will be an assessment of these issues, and we will also assess whether sanctions should be available for infringements of this law. We are dedicated to ensuring that we still have the opportunity to pay with cash.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1487	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-15.ana.ud449e1501	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
