ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e28	From the Workers' Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative Eva Kristin Hansen from 16 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kristian Torve, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e48	Kristian Torve is present and will take the seat. The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e55	I am finally delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself to carry out new tasks for the Post to maintain frequent loads and provide new services to many in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e76	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Anniken Hauglie, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Tor Mikkel Wara for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e85	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. The Council of State is responsible for the government's equality policy, and she has promised to be a high-ranking defender of women's right to abortion internationally. The abortion law is described as perhaps the most important equality law we have – the right to decide about our own lives. The Minister of Gender Equality is a champion of a global movement that works actively for and stands for women's right to abortion. She Decides is a global movement working for girls and women to control their own bodies, without questions, and was created in response to the Trump administration's money cut to organizations that provide information on abortion, the so-called Global Gag Rule. After getting the title champion tweeted the council that it was an honor. She seems to have forgotten that. From the Minister for Gender Equality there has been a staggering silence in the important gender equality debate that has taken place in Norway this autumn. The title embellished by Hofstad Helleland obliges her to defend abortion rights in the public debate. My question to the Council of State is: Does she agree with her Prime Minister that women's abortion rights are suitable for negotiation in order to maintain government power? And why has she committed herself to a kind of local "gag rule" when abortion and women's right to control their own lives is at stake and dominates public vocabulary?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e94	I have been to Stortinget and answered the Workers' Party's question about abortion. I've been blackmailing the media on the abortion question. And I'd like to answer here again. Women’s rights must be established. Of course, women must have their own body. The issue of abortion is, as the representative well knows, under health law, and I am dealing with the Jeløya Declaration and government policy on abortion. I am pleased with today's legislation and today's practice. The work I have in She Decides and women's sexual and reproductive rights is important. It is linked to Norway’s great efforts for girls and women’s rights to control their own bodies worldwide. In many countries, the situation is quite different from that in Norway, with far, much stricter abortion laws. Half of the abortions committed in the world today are unsafe – leading to the death of thousands of women worldwide every year. Fronting She Decides is a good opportunity to give a voice to those girls and women in the world who lack access to prevention, sexual education and safe and lawful abortions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e103	My question was about the State Council, the Minister for Gender Equality, believes that abortion rights for women are suitable for negotiating regarding government power. There is an international dimension in the mission that the Council of State has proudly taken on when she is champion of She Decides. Do you think it's okay in other countries to put this in the pot to gain power? It's a big, basically important question, and I'm a little surprised on behalf of these women in other countries, who fight for the same equality laws we've achieved in Norway: doesn't the Council of State see that her strategy and her silence in the public debate can help the matter both lose legitimacy and perhaps also damage the support women in more vulnerable countries so desperately need from a Norwegian government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e108	The questions we discuss at the meetings that She Decides arranges are of a slightly different nature than those we have in Norway. It's especially about girls' access to contraception, that girls all the way down to very, very young age are forced to get pregnant. It is about not having access to healthcare and hospital services to have abortions performed. Norway has an important mission here, also because we give priority to assisting many of these girls and women. The fact that various issues are now being discussed in the context of government negotiations must only be taken as a starting point, and then we will see what emerges from a possible new government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e113	There will be follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e118	There is a reason Norway has a strong voice in gender equality and abortion, and that is because we do our homework. But when Erna Solberg goes to the brink to negotiate the abortion law that the Minister for Gender Equality says she supports, international media writes that abortion rights are used in a political game in Norway. Furthermore, it is said that Erna Solberg is opposed to the liberal trend, which we, among other things, see. have seen in Ireland, when she is tightening the abortion law. That has to be a connection. I hear to the Minister for Gender Equality that she's engaged, and she's talking about what's happening at international meetings, but here she's silent. My question is: does the Minister for Equal Opportunities agree with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health, who says that today's abortion law is discriminatory?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e125	It is not surprising that this case has also received attention in other countries, especially because the Workers' Party makes it almost like we are taking away women's opportunities for self-determined abortion. That doesn't lead to correctness. Of course, abortion legislation is an important issue for women. It's also for men, but it's one of our important equality issues. That is why I am very pleased that both Bent Höie and the Prime Minister have been very clear that we should not weaken women's rights, women should have an obvious right to control their own bodies. The fact that many people feel that Section 2(c) is discriminatory, I think we should all have understanding and respect for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e130	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e135	What's different is that women, with what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health open up, have to consider. We know how stressful it can be for too many women. It is not the case that the Workers' Party has diverted almost an entire audience. It is women who have been in this situation themselves, who have written quite strongly in the media – I believe – about the ethical choices they face. Nor is it the case that the Workers' Party has led an entire international world – when it is written in medical journals that this is a narrowing. My question is: does the Minister for Gender Equality see that it can be difficult for a woman in a very difficult situation to have to meet in the name of rather than decide for herself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e143	Yes, I do, because I have experienced it myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e148	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e153	Self-determined abortion is one of Norway’s most important women’s equality winners. Nevertheless, several representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Right have recently been called upon to restrict women's right to self-determination in the field of foetal reduction, either by prohibiting it or by means of negation before week 12. I believe that there is a distrust of women's ability to judge for themselves what is right for themselves and their families, and that is actually a restriction of women's right to self-determination. But despite the fact that self-righteous abortion is an important issue of equality, the Minister for Gender Equality is not so clear in his defence. As mentioned, the Council of State is champion of a movement for the purpose: a world where all girls and women can control their own bodies, their own lives and their own future without questions. She will, as a champion, meet conservative regimes in other countries and ask them to respect women's right to self-determination, while not defending the same right at home. Does the Council of State see hypocrisy in that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e160	I absolutely do not, because we have been very clear, the Prime Minister has been very clear, the Minister of Health has been very clear, that women's rights should not be weakened. I am pleased with the law we have today, which guarantees women the right to take this decision, and I do not want to speculate on any changes, what has been up to debate, and what those who sit and negotiate about any new government platform will find out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e165	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e170	In the whole of 2018, only eight women carried out foetal reduction without medical justification, after that practice was opened up by the Right in the Government in 2016. But now Erna Solberg has turned around, and the Right chooses to turn the election into a negotiating question – so you put a moral index finger on these women and say that they are not able to make such an important choice themselves. In a similar style, the right has recently addressed a moral index to Norwegian women in order to have them give birth to more children in the past, rather than doing something about their own policies, which provide insecurity for families with temporary work and a pressurised housing market. This government is the government of moralism, and the moralization of conservatives particularly affects women. Firstly, does the Council of State believe that the fact that, as many have mentioned, restricting the right to self-determination is not to weaken women's rights? Secondly, does the Council of State think it is right to use the government negotiations to moralize what eight single women have chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e177	I must almost just show that the representative of the Supreme Court must know much more of what is going on in Granavolden than what I do. I don't know if it's even topic, and I think we'll wait and see what any government platform will contain. Then I believe that a government with the Left, the Advance Party and the Right is not primarily a government that people think of as the guardians of moralism. What the Prime Minister did on New Year's Day was to offer a kind invitation that people should have more children, and that we on the part of the authorities should facilitate people to have more children. It is not a political task to decide it; it is entirely up to the individual couple and the individual family to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e182	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e187	It's for the Minister of Labour. Aleris Ungplan & BOI operates a number of care institutions. The Aleris Group is one of Scandinavia's leading private health and care companies. Aleris has sold his Norwegian operations of care for the elderly, child protection and mental care, including Aleris Ungplan & BOI, to the Swedish care giant Ambea, which reduced the net debt of the company by 2.65 billion. kr. Aleris Ungplan & BOU is reported to have 2,857 employees – we are talking about a large company with a large number of people carrying out health and care work for the community of Norway. This company is now in legal proceedings with the Trade Union. LO is the help director. The NHO does not represent the assistant director of its own member enterprise Aleris. The case concerns Aleris’ use of people who are seafaring, rather than being permanently employed in Aleris. The trade union believes that Aleris has both formal and real governance rights over the marine operators, because Aleris bears the risk of working result. There is a personal obligation to work for the maritime operators – i.e. the seafaring trader cannot use a helper. Seafarers mainly have one employer, and their employment status is stable. The reality is, therefore, that Aleris’ operating model is characterised by the fact that people are formally self-employed, while they are actually employees. Why does Aleris use the seafaring sole proprietor as compensation for his own permanent employees? – Yes, because it is much cheaper for the company, and the important provisions of the Work Environment Act do not apply to seafarers. The head of the trade union Mette Nord has stated that the legal case is one of the largest and most important employment cases in Norwegian law for years. The centre party agrees. Aleris therefore employs care institutions with hired maritime workers instead of its own permanent staff. My question is, does this, according to the ideology of government, provide the security of quality and continuity that patients, children and relatives need?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e198	The trial started on Monday. It's probably told to last a few months. Then we'll see what the court says about the issues that the representative Lundteg addresses in his question. Whether the plaintiffs are supported or not, I will not speculate here, but there is no doubt that this type of case is also important for policy and for legislation, because these judgments also interpret the scope of the laws and how they are to be understood. Several of the labour law cases that have taken place have also provided the basis for changes and clarifications in legislation. On a general basis, I believe that private operators are important for Norwegian welfare, for Norwegian healthcare and also for services in the area of child protection. But it is important that the public, who buys services, is clear about the quality of the services, the quality of the services expected to be provided to the users they are supposed to reach, and that the orders of the services, i.e. state and municipality, are clear about following up the contracts with the operators that provide the services. Legislation is also in place to ensure that services are offered, both in the health sector, in the care sector and in the child protection sector. I also assume that the State and the municipality follow up the contracts they have and ensure that the quality is in fact the same as that required in the contracts that were concluded. When it comes to the trial that is currently in progress, I will be careful to think anything about it. It's going to last a few months, and then we'll see what it leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e207	The trial is seaworthy according to Norwegian law, and the Stortinget is not supposed to have any activity in relation to it. My question, however, concerned the principle here. We're talking about a significant company, which operates care services, which requires continuity, security and security, so that those who need help will get good help. Instead of having their own permanent employees, the company, Aleris, chooses to hire a seafarer. My question was: does the government think that the option – with self-employed people – provides the security needed by these weak groups? That was the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e213	There are actually several issues that the representative Lundteg addresses in his question. One is that fixed employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Employers must not be able to circumvent their employer’s obligations by redefining the positions of their employees. If you're employed de facto, you also have to be defined as an employee. There are rules for what it means to be that. Creative circumvention of the law is, of course, not desirable or acceptable. Then this trial will decide what is the case in this specific case. The second issue is: should you have the opportunity to hire self-employed people at all? There may be good reasons why you do it from time to time. It may be that there are employees with special skills on narrow diagnosis or narrow problem issues, that some employees may not have a full job, or that employees want to hire more actors. So you cannot say on a general basis that it should not be possible or good to hire a self-employed person, because it may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e220	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e225	I notice that the Council of State says that one should not have creative associations. In my introduction I made the claim that it is formally seafaring, while it is actually employees. This must, of course, be a creative act that the Council of State does not want. My further follow-up question is: there are several trade unions that have been away from this. The trade union lost the case against Norwegian regarding employer responsibility and employment in the company. Does not such conflicts in Norwegian working life show that the Stortinget needs to clarify the definition of an employer in the Working Environment Act – this to stress that the person with the real right of management over work also has real responsibilities for employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e232	I believe it is important that the employer does not circumvent the legislation and tries to define himself away from an employer's responsibility. In the Aleris case, this is what the court has to decide – whether you have tried it or not. There is no one in this room to pre-conclusion – that is the right to decide. Several judgments in recent years have highlighted the boundaries of different forms of association. Several court decisions included: on the basis of the bill of rental presented by the government to the Stortingen last year, where we include. specified fixed employment more clearly in the law than had previously been the case. Some of these definitions included: the starting point of the legal decisions taken. In this respect, it is good that there are legal decisions, because it shows how the interpretation of the law is to be understood, and then the Storting has the opportunity to make changes if you think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e239	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e244	I am pleased that we got a clarification of fixed-term employment in the Working Environment Act that stopped the possibility of using fixed-term employment without pay between jobs, which the staff companies were running. But now we have a new problem that challenges the safety of the labour market. What's interesting is what kind of argument Aleris uses. Aleris says they need to use seafaring operators to have the necessary flexibility in the workforce to do good work. Furthermore, they say that the restriction of the freedom to use consultants – that is another word for marine operators – is contrary to Articles 31 and 36 of the EEA Agreement on freedom of establishment and freedom to accept services, respectively. My question is: can the EEA Agreement be used as an argument to replace its own permanent employees with maritime operators to carry out publicly funded care?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e251	I don't think the Storting's spontaneous question time is the appropriate format to answer these kinds of questions. This is one of the issues that the court is now going to address. I have no prerequisite for assessing whether EEA law can be applied in this case at all. What is the reality is that there are rules for what it means to be a permanent employee. It is listed in the law what it means to be a permanent employee, and it is the scope and nature of the work that determines whether you are a permanent employee or not. Then, in this case, the court may decide whether the defendants are to be regarded as one or the other. There are none of us here in this room who, in my opinion, have the prerequisites for pre-conclusion at all. However, it is important that employers do not circumvent their responsibilities. It is the nature of the work that determines whether you are employed or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e256	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e261	What we have learned from this round of questions is that the Council of State does not want creativity that circumvents the legislation. This concerns Aleris in this case. Then it's the nature of the work that I've described. This is how a seafarer is used to carry out work that is otherwise carried out by permanent employees, and permanent employment provides more security. Then Aleris finally takes up the argument about the EEA Agreement. It should not be a surprise to the Council of State that Aleris is using the EEA Agreement, as it is publicly known. It is quite special that the Council of States does not have an opinion on Aleris can use the EEA Agreement as a argument. So I repeat the question, is it that the government does not at present have any opinion about the use of the EEA Agreement argument in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e266	One reason why I cannot answer whether the EEA question is relevant in this case is that I do not know the matter of Aleris in addition to what is in the media. I have not read what lies in the cause of the defendants in addition to what is in the media. I have also not read, evaluated or analysed the entry of Aleris into this issue. In some cases, EEA law may be applied. In other cases it is not relevant. Whether this is relevant in this case, I do not have a prerequisite for being able to answer, because I do not know the case well enough. Now, I guess this is some of the things that have to be decided in court, as far as I understand. There may be various reasons why self-employed people are employed. It may be that you have to build a business – that you have to build a business, for example. in an initial phase, self-employed persons are employed. This may be because some people have special skills that you buy. However, there is no basis for replacing permanent employees with self-employed workers, if they are permanent employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e273	Eigil Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e279	For us as wholesalers, it is not natural to take a decision in an ongoing legal case. However, as politicians, both government representatives and government councils should have an opinion on how our working life should look. To me, the answer is clear and clear: the goal is a working life with the most permanent and entire jobs. It is best for employees, for users and for the welfare community. The case between Aleris and the Trade Union has revealed that employers can exercise full control of their employees by hiring them as consultants. Those who have reported poor employment have been lost or refused guards. The newspaper has gone through the team overview, and the examples are quite serious. One worker had only two nights' rest a whole week at work; another was on work three weeks in the course of 14 hours. My question to the Council of State is: Irrespective of Aleris – does she see any challenges at all in that companies in our publicly funded welfare are organizing themselves as a number of individual enterprises with self-employed people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e288	It is difficult to answer questions that have been raised until those degrees are linked to the organisation of individual enterprises and that are also being tried in court now. But I fully agree that it is our right and duty as politicians to have an opinion about Norwegian working life and how it should be. I think we in this room agree that fixed employment should be the general rule. We are concerned that there should be safe and good working conditions in Norwegian jobs and that there should be good cooperation between the parties and a high level of trust between them. I think we all share an commitment that employers should not be able to circumvent obligations that they would otherwise have by organising the business differently. This does not mean that you are not allowed to use a self-employed person, but you cannot use a self-employed person if the employee's job and its nature are, in fact, to define as a job for a permanent employee. In Aleris’s case, we’ll be able to clarify this in a few months’ time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e295	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e300	My question also goes to the Minister of Labour. The differences in power and wealth in Norway are too great, and one of the things that can lead to an increase in inequalities is the unsocial aspects of our pension system. When people go to work in the morning, they should just be missing that they also earn the pension for the effort. That's how we make sure that a long life in work also gives good years as old. That is why we in SV, together with the Workers' Party, have proposed that all paid work should provide retirement in Norway. Now the system is that the first part of the pay of hundreds of thousands of people doesn't count. It's grossly unfair. Only three out of ten in the private sector have a pension from the first penny today. It's usually high pay. This increases the pay gap when people become retired. We need a pension policy that is for the many, not for the few, and therefore we need a decision in the Grand Duchy on pensions from the first penny. Let me take a hairdresser as an example. A hairdresser has an average salary of NOK 29 600 per month, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. Many hairdressers do not have first-aid service. It only starts from almost NOK 97,000. This means that a hairdresser with an average salary does not earn a pension until she has gone to work for well over three months. It's not like that for labour ministers. Already on the first day of January, a Minister of Labour, a Prime Minister or a Depositary Representative is making up a pension from a high salary. So if the Minister of Labour goes to the hairdresser a little before Easter, the probability is great that whoever cuts her hair hasn't yet begun to earn a pension. Does the Council of State think this is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e315	Now the representative Lysbakken asks me questions that are under the Ministry of Finance. It is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for following up that question. The Minister of Finance, in dialogue with the parties, has sent out a proposal – probably now a year ago – with concrete proposals for improvements in the area addressed by the representative and will also propose it to the Stortinget. I don't know the details of how that device has been, so I'm going to be careful to express myself very bitterly about it. Changes in this will be proposed, but beyond that, I will not answer the question, because it is under the responsibility of another State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e322	It is relevant to ask the Minister of Labour questions about pensions, so I assume that it is also possible to get answers from the Minister of Labour on behalf of the government on that. The committee's proceedings do not expect the Minister of Labour to go into it, but the government's view of the pension from the first crown I expect answers to be received. The basic question is, is it fair that so many people in the private sector don't have a pension from the first penny, which will reinforce the problem we already have with increasing inequalities in Norway if we don't do anything about it? What's the government's view of that? Does the government think that giving everyone a pension option from the first crown would be a positive contribution to more justice in the pension scheme, or does the government not think so? Does the government think that what I have just described is unfair, or does the government think it's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e329	In her first answer, the Council of State has stated that she considers this question not to be within its competence, but I still leave the Council of State to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e334	Thank you for that, President. Well, I'd really like to talk about pension issues. When I answered as I did, it was because the concrete questions are about a matter that is under the responsibility of another state council, which is being discussed in the committee and also has a longer history, among other things. because there was part of a pay settlement between the parties. It was a claim in a payroll settlement that was not met as one party wanted, and then the matter came to the Stortings table. And when I've wanted to be careful to answer this question, it's because I don't know the details of the process around it. But I agree that retirement is an important issue, and that is also the background for the government to put a significant effort into completing the public sector pension reform. We reached an agreement with the parties last March. This includes, inter alia: that public sector employees also now have the opportunity to obtain pay-offs to work longer, we ensure better mobility between the public and private sectors, and we now also have an AFP scheme in the public sector equivalent to that in the private sector. So we're busy with good retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e343	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e348	That's right, and that's the equal treatment between these different parts of the pension system we're concerned with. Among those groups that today have to live with the fact that a significant part of their work does not provide service are cleaners, hotel employees, the catering industry, where many have low wages, perhaps also involuntary part-time. I think that there are some people in this country who deserve to earn a pension for every hour of work that is laid down, it must be those who have heavy jobs and low wages. There are important policy reasons for this. There's also something unsympathetic about a society where those who have high pay are always getting better out. There is nothing but unfair, and it is a political responsibility for magnification and government that the injustice disappears. If you're going to talk about non-discrimination, if you don't want the government and the majority to go in order for everyone to earn a pension from the first dollar, then the Council of State will be willing to look at other pension schemes, such as: for government councils and depositors? Maybe we shouldn't have earnings from the first dollar, then?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e355	Having good pensions for most people is important. That is why this government has given priority to improving the pensions of married and cohabiting pensioners, that on several occasions it now has increased the pension for minimum pensioners – in several successive budgetary rounds – and that we have now also made a significant effort to put in place and complete the pension reform in order to ensure that public employees are able to be paid out for working longer, and that they are also granted their rights when moving between the private and public sectors. Now we're going to start every moment with the special age limits in cooperation with the parties, and the issues in the pension discussion are going to stand in line in the years that are coming, as I see it. It is not up to me to consider whether to change the pensions of the EEAS and the State Councils – now it is probably not as long as these pension schemes have been changed. Well, it's the Storting itself and the sample that works with the pay terms here, that gets to take care of – I don't mean anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e363	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e368	If we look at it from the other side of our working life, the groups in Norwegian working life that really do make good, there are many who have good arrangements for individual pension savings. The government has ensured that the individual pension saving scheme has been repeatedly improved. Now this applies to individual savings up to NOK 40000 per year, which will give a tax deduction of approximately NOK 9000. Terrible people will never be able to save that much money, especially people who have low wages. I assume that the government, which is responsible for working life and which is concerned with the development of the pension system, can explain to me why it is that the government, including in the field of pensions, is so eager to expand and improve schemes that exist for those who serve the best, mostly go to them with the most, while they are so little interested in changes for those who earn little.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e373	This plan is under the Ministry of Finance, and I do not know the details of how that plan is rigged. In general, I think it is good to also stimulate private pension savings, and to facilitate that it is possible for people to earn their own pension and take responsibility for their own pension. But that does not mean that you should not have good public pension schemes, that you should not have a good public safety net for those who retire, that there are good minimum pension schemes, as we have done in Stortingen on several occasions by raising minimum pensions, that we have now improved the pension scheme for married and cohabiting pensioners, and that we are now re-establishing the pension reform in the public sector, which will provide significant improvements and the possibility of improving own pensions, including for those in the public sector. I strongly believe that this government is engaged in pensions, both the minimum pensions of those who have not had the opportunity to earn so much of their own income, and the ordinary pension schemes that you have, both in the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e378	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e383	It was a little strange to hear that the Council of State on the question from the representative Lightbakken referred to a pay settlement when the government has proposed to remove the 12-month rule in the field of compulsory occupational pension. It's going to be possible to do something about that law way too. My follow-up question is about the principles of the pension reform. The basic principle there was a pension from the first penny. This is now the case in the social security system, for public service pensioners, in the AFP and for the 400,000 best paid in the private sector. Does the Council's response to the Light Background mean that one million workers who do not yet have a pension from the first crown must wait until 2021 before they can have the hope of having the same pension rights that apply to everyone else, or will the Council of State take an initiative towards the Minister of Finance to bring compulsory occupational pension in accordance with the principles of new popular security?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e390	It was not unnatural to refer to the wage settlement. Right this point was a central part of the wage settlement, a discussion between the parties, where the parties did not agree. This does not mean that the party that did not get through did not get through to other issues that were important to them. You can walk the law. The size is in its full right to walk the law, but it is also a central principle of tripartite cooperation that when one goes the law, one is also concerned that the parties are as much as possible united in what is proposed. There is no need for the parties to be united, but at least it is an advantage to try to find compromises between the parties in the spirit of cooperation as far as possible. Again, I have questions about arrangements that are under the responsibility of another State Council. I don't want to answer that, in fear of answering incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e399	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e404	We are getting more and more examples of how welfare professionals weaken pay and working conditions for those working in health and care. The Aleris case shows how social dumping has now spread from the construction site to the nursing home. So the company has bypassed the law's provision on permanent jobs and rather used people as hired consultants. As a result, the company has saved overtime, sick pay and pensions for its employees. Nor have they paid an employer’s fee to the community. In the proceedings, there is now a claim for a refund of up to 1.5 million. kr per person. This does not apply only in nursing homes. We also find the same pressure on pay and working conditions in the care of the elderly. A short time ago, the NRC reported large pay differentials among nurses in Oslo. One of them, Nilem Kaushal, works at a commercial housing and rehabilitation centre. She would earn NOK 60,000 more if she had worked in the Municipality of Oslo, than what she is doing today as an employee at a commercial housing and rehabilitation centre. Kaushal says to the NRK: I feel cheated. I'm shocked. I do the same job as my colleagues at the municipality's rehabilitation centres. What does the Council of State think that there are so many differences in pay and working conditions between people who do the same job but who have different employers, commercial and public respectively? Does the Minister have any view of the differences we are exposed to in terms of pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e413	As regards the outsourcing or outsourcing of public services, be it welfare services or other services, there are some resulting rules. There are rules for transfer of business, if that is the case, and there are also regulations and pay and working conditions in public contracts to be followed. So it's not that it's lawless when it comes to outsourcing services – either in the care services or in other services. Whether there are wage differences between the private and public sectors – I think it can go both ways. There may be private enterprises where you earn better or worse than in the public sector, and vice versa. The wage negotiations and the formation of wages are the responsibility of the parties, and I believe that we should respect them here too. There may be other aspects of emphasis. There may be different aspects that are emphasised in wage negotiations between employees and employers. It could be pay, obviously, it could be extra, it could be competence measures, it could be leisure and vacation, there could be other things that we don't know about. Looking at the pay ladders in isolation at one place and in that way generalizing for almost all industries throughout the country, I think is a mistake – and a short ending. I assume that when the state and the municipality place services on the market, when they buy services from private operators, they follow the laws and regulations that apply, and ensure that the quality is good, just as I also assume that the state and the municipality in their own businesses also ensure that the quality of the users, of the patients, until the residents keep the same high standard. Because, in my opinion, the main point in the production of services must be: are the services good, meet the requirements, follow the rules, meet the needs of the citizens for services? It must be essential, not the form of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e422	I didn't ask about any industry, I asked about the welfare professionals in health and care. And then it's not Red that intervenes in wage formation, it's the government that does, with forced pay. The budget decided in February last year to oblige the government to ‘assess how it can be ensured that actors receiving government grants for the operation of health care services have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those of public enterprises’. The Christian People's Party, with which Hauglie's government is now negotiating at Granavollen, secured a majority for this decision in Stortinget, a decision that the government obviously has no urgency to follow up. At the earliest until the fall, the government will continue with the case and the expert committee will deliver its first investigation. It's been almost two years since this big decision, so the Right obviously has good time. But it doesn't have people like Nilem Kaushal and others, who lose thousands of dollars every year because they work with commercial welfare professionals. Why does the Council of State accept that these do not have the same good conditions as those who do the same job in public?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e431	First of all, I want to distance myself from the term "profit." It helps to create the impression that you have actors with dishonest purposes, who want to take advantage of old and sick people. I think most of us who also know many of the businesses that provide services to the public sector know that this is not the case. In some tendering procedures where you buy services, dividends are also required. It's not that you can take anything for the services you provide. Both pay and work conditions are required, and sometimes dividends are also often required. As I said in my first answer, there may be pay differences between the public and private sectors. It can go both ways, it can be within the public sector and within the private sector. It is the parties that negotiate in the individual wage and salary settlements. It may be pay they discuss, but there may also be other issues that are at least as important to the employees and that we may not know as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e439	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e444	What are we going to call it, then – a company that is well-being for profit, with profit as its purpose? They're welfare professionals. It is a purely descriptive concept of what is happening in the real world, out of well-being, where corporations, including in tax havens, take millions of dollars out of well-being – take them from nurturing elderly people, from vulnerable child-rescue children and from kindergarten children – and eliminate them out of the country and into owners, who are also often in tax havens, and into buying funds. The problem with the government's paralysis in response to the welfare professionals' weakening of pay and working conditions is that we get a system in which it actually pays to push down wages and conditions as far as possible. I want an answer from the Council of State as to whether the government wants it to be a competitive advantage to weaken the pay and working conditions of employees, because that is what happens with today's system: the lower the salary, the greater the chance of winning tenders and getting the contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e453	The representative of Moxnes seems to believe that the only rewarding and qualitatively accepted and good way to do a service is to run it under public control. I disagree with the representative. I believe that it is also good in the welfare sector to use the creativity and innovation in the sector. In the area of care for the elderly, we see – and the representative Moxnes knows about it from Oslo, as he himself is in charge of the city – several private actors who contribute significantly to improving the quality of the services, not only within the health home he is operating, but also to the sector as a whole. I know that you now want to re-assemble these hospitals. I don't think so. The most important thing for us must be: what quality do the services provided have? Which supplier delivers them, I think, is subordinate, but we assume, of course, that they will follow all the laws and regulations that apply to this type of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e462	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e467	Aleris Ungplan & BOU has been purchased by the caregiant Ambea. Ambea now checks 25 pst. of the Norwegian care market. According to the trade journal, the parent company goes to Ambea under the name Actor S.C.A. – with address in Luxembourg. It's a secret who owns Actor. The Council of State clarifies that a desire for orderly relations is required, and in other contexts it has said that one should have equivalent competition between private operators. The question is then: Will the Council of State agree that the government, state or local authority, which is tendering for care, is requiring permanent employment with Norwegian, tariff-fixed pay and working conditions in order to have equivalent competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e476	We already have a regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts that also lays down the framework for the legislation to be applied when outsourcing services or other forms of tender. This means, for example: that the supplier shall provide his employees with good pay and working conditions, equivalent to schemes made public or otherwise. So it's not illegal today, as the representative Lundtigen almost tries to give the impression of. But we assume – and this is an important point – that when public, whether state or municipality, buys services from outside, it is important that they follow up these contracts. This is why in 2018 the government of the letters of allocation to the agencies – which is continued in the letters of allocation this year – pointed out the importance of public agencies and businesses following up their contracts, particularly in order to ensure, inter alia, that: good pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e481	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e486	I understand what the council says, but here we are in the favorable situation that it is public, either state or municipality, who chooses to put work out for tender. It must then be up to the person who puts a job to tender, the rules of the game to be applied. My question was quite specific: Will the Council of State recommend that government or local authorities require permanent employment with Norwegian, tariff-fixed pay and working conditions in the tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e493	As I said in my previous answer, there is already today a code on how to proceed when buying services from outside. It is a separate regulation governing the conditions to be fulfilled. We have also made it clear to the underlying state agencies and businesses that they must ensure that these contracts are followed up, that pay and working conditions are as they should be, and that services are of good quality. This is also one of our measures in the fight against crime at work and for serious employment. I do not think it is appropriate for me to impose on all the municipalities a specific way of doing this. Municipalities must already make demands for sound conditions of employment and pay, similar to those in the other sectors. So there is already legislation today, and I assume that the public sector is at the forefront of this work, precisely to ensure good, sound and serious employment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e500	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e505	This question is for the Minister of Justice. The top story on TV2.no right now is about a seven-year-old girl who was raped two years ago and who has not yet been brought to justice. And you can ask, is this a random matter – it's a dramatic matter, a terrible matter – or is there any systematics in this? And that's it! It is a worrying development, where we have seen a reduction and critical shortage of key police district personnel, feedback on longer response times and an increasing lack of investigation capacity. This has created one of the most unworthy queues in our country: victims of serious crime who experience that the perpetrator is getting lower prison sentences because the case has been with the police for too long. Think about it — in Norway: a penalty discount for heavy criminals because it has taken so long to get to the courtroom. It is not worthy of the Norwegian court. People who have experienced serious crimes, such as rape, must stand in line to report the case, queue to get it investigated, queue to get it charged and queue to get a conviction. The trial period at Borgarting Lawyers' Court, which is the largest appeal court in Norway, is now one and a half years – compared to six months in 2016. Our courts, the third state power, are defyed by the Progress Party in government, and here the fifth minister of justice is responsible. Trustees, the leaders of the courts and the head of the court administration are people who don't normally go out in big words, but they say important things. The legal security of people is threatened. Trustees all over the trouble in the police say the same thing, and that's not how we can do it. Justice policy suffers from a lack of priority, poor budgets, cheese requirements and poor implementation of police reform. It undermines people's legal certainty and security. So my question to the Minister of Justice is, why does he think it is acceptable that people's legal certainty be dealt with in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e519	We're constantly working on improving legal certainty. I think it's useful with a little bit of facts here: we've given this government 4.2 billion. More to the police, 2,700 more to the police, 1,600 more to the police than when Jonas Gahr Støre was in government. It has, among other things, stated that there are fewer remains in the police, that is a higher percentage of clarification. But of course it is, for my part, that my level of ambition for the police is higher than just being better than the level of ambition of the Labour Party. We are facing a demanding police reform. That police reform was largely implemented in 2018, which means that it is not yet one year old. That means there's a lot to get better. We follow it closely, we're not satisfied with the numbers, but I'm absolutely convinced that it's getting better. So it's like the world is changing, crime is changing, and then the police too have to change. One of the challenges is that there are some crimes that are increasing. It's sexual offences, which have grown at over 60 p.m., and it's crimes against children. It goes down in some other areas. These serious crimes are extremely resource-intensive to investigate. They require high quality — and there is a quality that has been improved, through children’s homes, a quality that has been made through demands for investigators — but it also takes time, and it takes resources. I'm not satisfied with the time that goes by and the priority when it comes to rape cases. I have talked about this with the Swedish Attorney General, and we are taking a number of measures during 2019 and 2020 to improve, especially in the case of rape cases, both investigation and prosecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e528	The first part of the article is a showpiece with numbers – so many policemen, so many have gone to the Police College – and so the Council of State says: I am not satisfied with the figures. This is not numbers, these are people. The example of this seven-year-old girl, where the mother finds that the case has not been completed, has not been settled – that is a dramatic situation. Yes, it's within the category of rape, but that's not just what happens at our courts, when we have an investigation capacity in the police where the whole line that brings a case to the courtroom is weakened. It's about the court, the position of the third state power, as a government should be very careful to deal with. The flat cuts, the cheese ratios and the priorities of the courts have been weak under this government. I want a slightly more precise response from the Council of State. What is he going to do with this when the trial period increases, when the waiting time in the largest appeal court in Norway has now ranged from six months to one and a half years? How is that time to come down? What is the measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e540	The courts have also been the subject of strengthening, primarily in the field of digitalisation. And then we have a major structural reform ahead of us. It contains two things: one is structure, the other is looking at criminal proceedings. Because it is clear that some of the new crimes, which are growing strongly, are taking a heavy toll on police resources, but they are also taking a heavy toll on the resources of the courts. When an assault case or two in a police district has nearly 800 victims, it goes without saying that it is a major asset. We need to specialise in the courts in order to improve, we need to bring them together so that they become stronger, but we also need to give them the resources to carry out the digitization projects that are necessary, so that the courts become as modern as the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e547	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e552	It confiscates resources, says the Minister of Justice. Perhaps then the Minister of Justice should provide a much better budget for the sector. But there are several unworthy cows in the justice sector. Victims of crime must put their lives on hold and bear this burden in addition to the crime they have been subjected to. If the attacker is convicted and the postponement is known as compensation for the victims of violence, there is also a queue there. In addition, the perpetrator may have received a penalty discount. In several media surveys, we have seen that victims of crime have to wait several years to get what they are entitled to. At the same time, year after year, the government has cut off further to the Agency for the Compensation of Victims — this at the top of underfunded police districts and courts. My question is: does the Minister of Justice think it is worthy and fair that victims of crime have to wait several years for the uprising they are entitled to, and what does the Minister of Justice think this does to those who experience it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e561	The queue at the victim's office is too long, and there's re-prioritized resources to try to get away from the queue that's there. But I will protest that it is a sub-financing of the police, as the representative says. That's 4.2 billion. kr more to the police now than when the Workers' Party was in government, there is a higher percentage of clarification, and there are lower remains. If you think 1 600 policemen don't play a role, I think that's unfortunate. Of course, 1 600 more policemen play an important role in the fight against crime. It's still a piece that remains in many areas. In some areas we have succeeded well. For example, we have removed the prison queue under the Labour Party. It's practically abolished now. But we still have a good job to do with a police reform that was carried out less than a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e570	: Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e575	The Minister of Justice doesn't answer the question, how do people experience this? In the top story of TV2.no, the mother of the seven-year-old girl who was selected says that every day is a fight, that it is perceived as a new offense, and that they lose faith in the justice system when one of the issues that should be the highest priority of the police stands for two years. Now is the third or fourth question hour Jonas Gahr Støre or I challenge the Minister of Justice or Prime Minister Erna Solberg to answer whether they take this situation seriously. I'm worried about exactly what the TV 2 mom says – that people are losing confidence in and threatening our legal system. It's serious. It's serious in a state of law. My question is: does the Minister of Justice share my concern that the current situation can lead to people losing confidence in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e584	Precautions shall be given to cases of rape and assault. In my meeting with the Riksadvokat last week, this was the theme. These matters shall be given priority by the police over other matters, they shall be given priority by the police lawyers over other matters, and the National Attorney and the State Attorneys shall be responsible for supervising the police — that that priority takes place. We're agreed to do that now. We're increasing resources to make sure that these issues are given priority. The Advocate General will carry out further inspections in 2019 and 2020. It is important to remember that I cannot comment on individual matters. It is also important that the quality of these cases be good. That is why we have granted money and invested so much in children's homes to facilitate the questioning of just minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e591	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e596	The Central Party has always warned against a centralizing police reform. A police survey recently revealed that 70 pst. believes that the police have become less accessible to people after the reform and that 20 pst. considers availability to be the same as before. Then there is a very small share that believes it has improved. Furthermore, the study showed that 80 pst. by policemen, prevention work is either getting worse or the same as before police reform, and an almost equal number indicate that preparedness is either getting worse or the same as before. Does the Council of State agree that it is the police officers themselves who are closest to saying whether the police reform has worked or not? And in that case, how does he relate to these very clear feedbacks that the police have become less accessible to people after the police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e604	I believe that the police are one of many important in assessing and evaluating the police reform. I also believe that the audience is very important to ask. So far, all the measurements show that trust in the police is increasing. I also believe that the victims of crime are important to ask. So there are quite a few of us to take with us when we evaluate the police reform. But the important thing now is: the police reform was implemented in 2018, and we are now a few weeks out in 2019. I think it is far too early to draw conclusions about a police reform that has been implemented in many places during April, May and June. So we have just a few months-old police reform, some of which is already passing judgment. I think that's unreasonable. I think it is important to make the police reform work, because it is important to remember that police reform is also a quality reform – and when you do something for the first time, you get better. So I am convinced that police reform will deliver better quality when it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e611	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e616	If you ask the victims of crime, all the signals come down that the police reform has led to a poorer investigation capacity in the police. Things accumulate – it has not improved. Recently, a book of research on police reforms has been published, including: reported the police reform in Norway. The editor of that book spoke to NRK: ‘We believe there is a greater distance between the police and the public; it’s about several things, but the most important thing is that the public knows the police worse and that the police know the public worse.’ The situation is simple: the police have been given a lot of new demanding tasks, and the resources used for reorganization are taken from the earlier priority tasks that were not as visible on the measurement parameters, such as service, assistance and prevention. The government has sold the police reform as a near-police reform, but is the Council satisfied with the reform, and does he himself believe that the government has delivered on the aims of bringing the police closer to people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e626	Police reform is absolutely necessary. Crime has changed a lot, and then the police have to change. General crime in Norway is falling. The percentage of disclosure is better, and the balances are less than when the Senter party was in government. But in some areas, crime is growing. It's about sexual crimes and child abuse. To solve those issues, you need a much more powerful and specialised police force. It's not like local police all over the country are revealing the crimes online. It's quite advanced operations, and if that's what I'm thinking about when it comes to police reform, it's that it should have been done a lot earlier -- so we could have met the new crime that's the most serious of all, sexual crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e633	Geir Inge Lien - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e638	To newspaper Nordlys, State Attorney Lars Fause said in December that the police reform has weakened the quality of research. The prosecution leader in Trom's police district describes it as a very demanding situation. In More and Romesdal, the investigation capacity is critical, the state attorney states in a new report. At the same time, there has been a large increase in the number of elected representatives. Before Christmas, VG discovered that the police have removed eight out of ten electoral cases between 2015 and 2017. ‘The police are slowing down in serious criminal proceedings’, writes Romsdal’s Budstikke at the place of hire on 17 December 2018, indicating that serious criminal cases are raging and investigations are gathering up. There are things that have doctors for 566 days. Is the Council satisfied, then, that the police reform has led to poorer quality in the investigation, so that serious issues are going to lie down and less serious matters are almost not being investigated at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e645	The police reform was carried out in 2018. It's only a few months old. I think it's too early to sentence it. It contains a number of quality elements, including: common criminal action, which is something new to be involved in the police. That means when you do something for the first time, it's not sure you're as good as when you do it after a year. I'm sure the quality will improve. It's also the way we've put 1,600 more policemen into the police. I think those policemen make a difference, but – and that is important – there was an explosive growth in sexual offences, an explosive growth that the police have to deal with. It's clear that resources need to be prioritised to do it. In other areas of society, crime falls. In the case of sexual law offences and assaults, it is growing rapidly. This means that the police have to change to meet the change in the underlying society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e652	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e657	The question is addressed to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. In 2018, prices again increased more than the pensions, thus reducing the purchasing power of pensioners for the fourth consecutive year. The richest of society, including the richest of pensioners, are treated with great tax cuts, while ordinary people, ordinary pensioners, get annual cuts in their pensions. Therefore, before Christmas, the Labour Party proposed to ask the government to assess the possibilities for re-priorities within the framework of the right to discuss social security schemes. But the government and the population said no. My question is: why does the Council of State not even want to look at what opportunities to re-prioritize existing within the current pension scheme? Does she have no understanding of the frustration of pensioners that they lose purchasing power year after year, and no understanding of the Pensioners' Association's desire to protect them with the lowest pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e668	I fully understand that the pensioners were also frustrated by the purchasing power development that took place between 2015 and 2017, just as I fully understand the frustration and concern that occurred among workers in parts of Norwegian working life when the oil price drop came and approx. 50,000 people had to leave work, as a direct consequence of the downturn in the oil sector. It is also the development of the labour market and wage developments that were the direct reason why the wage trend of retired persons was different from that of previous years. The way pensions are regulated is a consequence of pension reform. It's a proposal that was promoted by the Stoltenberg government, and that got a broad majority in Stortinget, to regulate the pension as an average of salary and price, but then operated at minus 0.75. It's quite technical for those who are not aware of the way this is regulated. This means that when the regulation is done by law, there are slightly different degrees of freedom in the discussion institute. But also earlier, when there was another kind of discussion, there was a strict framework for what was done. Pensioners' organisations also disagree on how to do this. The discussion institute is conducted in the same way as it has always been. There are no changes in the Institute from the time the Workers' Party itself took office and until now. It's carried out in exactly the same way as always. That's what I'm going to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e679	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State considered that social security schemes are now a consequence of the pension reform. The government, on its own initiative, has now stopped presenting the social security balances to the Storting, and reference is made to the regulatory provisions in line with the pension agreement. However, the Storting has granted extra on its own to minimum pensioners with an old age pension, so it is possible to go outside the framework of the pension reform, and the Workers' Party believes that the right to talk about social security schemes should be effective. The government parties, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, claim that it is contrary to the pension agreement, and the Council of State claims the same. But how can the council claim it, when it says black on white in Ot. pp. No 37 for 2008-2009 that ‘there is reason to believe that the right of discussion of pensioners’ and employees’ organisations will continue’?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e687	And it does. The discussion institute with pensioners' organisations is exactly as real now as under the previous government. There are no changes in how this is currently being discussed and in the past. The only exception, as far as I know, is that there are more people who are invited into the discussion institute now than what was the case before, if I remember correctly. So it's not right that the social security bill is not presented to the Stortinget. It does it to the greatest extent possible. The majority is presented in the same way as before, but with the difference that the matter presented by this government is presented in the autumn in connection with the State budget. That means that the parties can make visible in a good way, and to the extent that you want to make changes to the pensioners, you have at least the opportunity to show action behind the words by actually granting it in their alternative budgets as well. The second difference in the matter we are presenting, in addition to being presented in the autumn, is that it is far more extensive and much more descriptive than what the previous propositions were. The previous propositions were purely a question of appropriations, but now there is a much wider issue to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e696	There will be follow-up questions – first Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e701	I thank you for your answer. I record that the Council of State is now responding to questions about social security settlement and the content of the right to discuss in a completely different way than before. Now the answer is that there is no difference from the past, while the answers we have received in the past are that it is the pension settlement itself that sets stricter limits on how pensions can be regulated. It's going to be an interesting thing to go on in Stortinget – how we're going to deal with the new way in which the Council of State responds, if it gives some openings to the pensioners' organizations' desire to influence the social security system. One last question: The Storting gets presented to the social security funds in the usual way, as in the past, says the Council of State. That's also a new way to answer. Can the Council of State then answer the question of how the Storting could influence a social security settlement seven months after its actual adoption and implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e710	I stand firm that no change has been made. The Stoltenberg government promoted the Stortinget proposal to change the regulatory regime, as a direct consequence of the pension reform. It was adopted, and the discussion institutes continued just as fully. When there was a new government, the discussion institutes continued in the same way. There is no change in either the regulatory regime or the discussion institute from the previous government to the current one. The only change is when the Stortinget gets presented with a case. This government has chosen to present the issue to the Stortinget in connection with the State budget — a more comprehensive case as well, showing, among other things, the development of income. the pensioners, so that you get a better and more accurate picture of the situation of the country's pensioners. When you present it in the autumn, that means that the Storting has the opportunity to do other priorities if you want to. And then you do it in your alternate budgets, as the Stortinget has also done on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e717	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e731	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question no. 1, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question no. 2, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has left. Question no. 5, from the representative Tellef Inge Mørland to the Minister for Health, will have to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question no. 6, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e757	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e765	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e770	I would like to ask the following questions – it was asked to the Minister for Finance: ‘In the serious kidnapping case in Lørenskog, the suspected kidnappers have made a large demand for money in the cryptocurrency Monero. It is intrinsically encrypted and secured and hides which sums are sent and to whom. Even Monero can't figure it out. There is thus a high risk that criminals will use such cryptocurrency for the purpose of money laundering and the concealment of crime. What initiatives can and will the government take nationally and internationally to regulate the use of cryptocurrency and prevent it from being used to conceal crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e779	Let me start by giving you credit for a good question. This is about our basic ability to keep an open and real economy. We've already taken more steps to reduce the risk of abuse of virtual currency, also known as cryptocurrency. In September the Ministry of Finance adopted a new law on money laundering. In the regulation we introduced registration obligations and supervision for those who want to exchange and keep virtual currency. Financial supervision has been entrusted with supervisory responsibilities. Both the law and the regulation entered into force on 15 October last year, while the registration obligation entered into force on 15 January. We're not all alone in doing an important job. Virtual currency is a global phenomenon that requires international solutions. The potential for misuse of virtual currency for criminal purposes, including money laundering and terrorist financing, has been recognised internationally for a long time. Financial Action Task Force, FATF, which is the international standard in the area of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism funding, discusses how their recommendations should apply to virtual currency. They were a few on some important issues already last October, but there is still a lot to discuss further. To ensure that there is sufficient traceability is at the heart of these discussions. Norway is a member of FATF and actively participates in this work. We participated, among others. by means of Ecokrim, the Police Security Service, the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Ministry of Finance, the Police Directorate and the Kripos. Otherwise, I would like to mention that in May 2018 the EU decided to extend its whitewashing legislation to the exchange and storage of virtual currency, with a deadline for implementation in 2020. An assumption that the Directive is EEA-relevant and will thus be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. However, these requirements have already been introduced in Norwegian law. In other words, we work both nationally and internationally to keep track of what the representative is busy with. We will continue to do so in that further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e792	I thank you for an answer that I think was both interesting and showed that we have the same thoughts. The question of traceability is also the key in relation to the Whitewashing Regulation, which entered into force on 15 October 2018, as mentioned by the Council of State, because even if you have a registration obligation, it does not help much if you cannot track who is behind the transfers. It is probably already the case that Norwegian banks do not swap cryptocurrency. So there's a need to develop strong international cooperation, and then it's the forum that the Council of State said, the key. I very much agree that ensuring traceability is the crucial point. So the question is whether to internationally advocate a ban on cryptocurrency that will not guarantee forms of traceability and cooperate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e799	I think it's too early to conclude on what solutions we end up with. I think we're some of the basic issues that this gives us. New technology is always challenging at first, and we need to find ways to regulate this at an adequate level, which means that we have control of the economy, and that we can also track what is decisive, so that we can prevent a grey or black economy outside of everything else. But then I think we'll continue to contribute to those forums, so we can find an international solution. That's the nucleus. Then in later rounds we get back to what the final and concrete solution will have to be. There is still some work to be done, but we are doing well and will continue our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e806	I also thank you for the additional reply. One has to moderate a little bit that it's new technology. It was in 2009 Bitcoin came, so it's been working for ten years. What was then the vision, that it would be a common means of payment instead of cash between people, has not turned on. We have received other, new solutions, such as: Vipps, who has received the hegemony to a great extent, in view of the easy way to pay. There are now signs that cryptocurrency, especially those who are not traceable, are becoming tools for criminal activity, for things to be hidden. The evening post today mentions a report from the University of Madrid that says that Monero is the kind of cryptocurrency that criminals are now most seeking. Because cryptocurrency has had such a limited use, because of large currency fluctuations, etc., there is a question of whether it should not be attacked very offensively internationally, as the Council of State was about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e815	I think I'll sum up that we're not at all in disagreement about this. The only thing I haven't done is to land the final conclusion, because we have to do the job internationally, which we contribute to, and which many of our underlying activities are also involved in the work. We have a common intention. We need an open and real economy that can be tried out. On the one hand, the economy in the world is functioning, and on the other hand, it provides the basis for building well-being in the countries. But it also makes sure that we have control of those who are trying to exploit new ways of doing things for criminal activity. It's always our goal to discover and charge it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e825	«The third paragraph of Section 19 of the Postal Act states: «The delivery post office may be set up on a foreign basis where the universal service provider considers it necessary for the purpose of efficient postal distribution and it does not cause any particular damage or inconvenience.» In the NRK's Article 5 January we can read about residents in the Vesterål, who would have obtained up to five hours of travel to the mailbox. Does the Council of State consider that a five-hour journey to the mailbox ‘does not cause any particular harm or disadvantage’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e832	Let me first try something as unusual as legal assistance. Postlova § 19 is not about the disadvantage of the person who receives the post, but about the actual position made by the post office is for special damage or disadvantage for landowners where the post office is located. This is how a person must understand the law, as it is meant to do. Then the answer is that in the case to which it is referred, the assessment is that it has not done so. Whether or not it provides an adequate postal service for those who want to have their mail, I understand that the representative has a question mark. This means that in addition, I want to place emphasis on it, rather than on the interpretation of Section 19 of the Postal Law. What's happening in the Post is a very change, not because the State or Post would like to take the postal services from people, but simply because people have stopped using the Post as they used it before. Since 1999, the post volume has fallen by 60 pst., and the fall has escalated by 10 pst. the last two or three years. We have simply received an e-mail, and it marks the post fully. It is good that we have received e-mails, it shows that the world is moving forward in many areas, and that more and more people are getting access to broadband, both because commercials are building up, and because the state is paying for it, most recently in the budget agreements in the Stortinget for 2019. But it also presents challenges, because it's getting thinner in the mail cars traveling across the country, there's getting more and more tours where a person really doesn't have much to distribute. It's a challenge for the Post, for the costs and for the ability that one actually has to provide good services. As a result, the Post has seen the necessary changes in its supply. The matter that the representative explicitly asks about: I understand that a person feels that it is very demanding to have to travel so far to have access to the post office, especially if one does not have other fully-fledged electronic solutions available. For this reason, the Post has a message – and I am pleased that I am going to encourage them to do so – that they will see if they can find other solutions and obtain them in a better way than they initially had decided. I have registered that Nordland County Municipality's agreement on boat kisses to the islands prevents public transport until a solution with a common mailbox in the area, but that one has now seen that the county council takes the initiative to get two fixed calls in a week. That's the kind of change that I also think the post should pay attention to. I would therefore like to encourage both the county council, the company that holds the boat, and the Post Office to try to find a more flexible solution than it has so far seen in this specific case. That's what I think we're going to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e851	It is, of course, very good that we have received an electronic mail. If only broadband coverage had been as good in the countryside and out in the districts as it is in the largest cities, it would have been even better. The rationale for State ownership of the Post is to ensure that there are providers who can meet society’s needs for nationwide postal services. A regulation was adopted which said that there could be an exception to having the mail in the mailbox at home, near where you live. Until it was established in 2017, there were 3,500 households. Then it was changed, without treatment in the Storting, but directly from the Council of State, to 11,000 households. It must mean that the Council of State thinks it is entirely right that fewer and fewer in the districts get mailboxes near where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e858	Luckily, that's not right, so the representative can get over it. What this is a result of is an actual change. When one in 2017 went through this and counted where there were exceptions, one saw that the number for which one had actually made that service change before was higher than what one had believed. That means that they really won't affect people's changes substantially. I'm still busy with the Post delivering good services around the country, but it's a post market that's changing significantly – not because we want to take the service from people, but because people stop using the Post. It's a challenge we don't get away from, but I'm busy getting as smooth as we can, so people still have access to postal services across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e865	The biggest and most important change is that this government removed the A-post. The red-green government wanted to keep the A-post, wanted to veto the EEA Agreement, in order to get mail overnight is very important. But I now see that the Post has as vision: ‘We make everyday life simpler and the world smaller.’ The post office today does not make everyday life easier. We get an incredible amount of requests from people all over the country who explain and tell how difficult their everyday life has become because of changes in the Post. The post now says they're going to be a Nordic postal and logistics group, and they're going to simplify and value trade and communication for people and businesses in the Nordic region. Are there people in the districts who are going to take the disadvantages and the burdens because Posten Norge AS wants to deliver throughout the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e875	No, it isn't. Only to repeat myself: No, it is not. But the Post is a company in transition, and the option is that a falling market keeps up the service supply without looking for new markets. This is impossible. Companies that depend on spending money to have the right of life, to invest, to develop new technology, to find better solutions, cannot see that the market is falling, without trying to find more legs to stand on. I thought that the Center Party thought was a necessary conversion of public corporations that one think one should keep the ownership of. It must be connected, one in sum. It rarely does when the Center Party has the word in this hall, but at least there must be some logic in the construction of it. I'm busy having a postal offer in the whole country, but it doesn't make sense to think that the conversion doesn't come, because it doesn't start with a government wish or a wish from the Post, it starts with people having stopped using it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e885	‘Ulvik municipality followed up the wish of the government to change the municipal structure. The municipality has used a lot of resources, explored several alternatives and been active politically. It has been clear that they wanted aggregation. However, the neighbouring municipalities chose different combinations, with the result that the municipality of Ulvik remained alone without anyone joining. On this basis, the municipality believes that it has involuntarily ended up as a small municipality. Do the Council of State agree that Ulvik is involuntarily small?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e892	I interpret the representative's questions so that it is about compensation to be involuntary alone. During the reform period, several municipalities wanted to join others, but without the wish of neighbouring municipalities. Several of these municipalities lost on the changes made to the basic grant and the small municipal supplement from 2016 to 2017. Of course, it was perceived as an unfortunate consequence of changes in the income system for those who actually wanted aggregation. In the municipality proposal for 2018, proposals for compensation were submitted to these municipalities, and in the spring of 2017, according to Stortinge's decision in the municipal reform, approximately 36 million were allocated. NOK to 23 municipalities that were involuntarily alone after the municipal reform. The assessments of the municipalities concerned were carried out by the Ministry in cooperation with the county authorities. Through this compensation, municipalities received compensation for parts of what they lost on the changes in the basic grant and the small municipal supplement from 2016 to 2017. The municipality of Ulvik was considered by the department to be one of the municipalities that remained involuntarily alone after the municipal reform. However, Ulvik made use of the changes made to the basic grant and the small municipal supplement as of 2017, and thus the municipality did not receive compensation through this scheme. Ulvik municipality has a high value for the structural criterion, which is a criterion used to say something about the degree of voluntaryity of small business disadvantages. They are therefore assessed to have involuntary small business disadvantages, for which they are fully compensated even after the changes in the income system in 2017. Moreover, the Government continues to have financial instruments for the bundling of municipalities. If Ulvik believes that the challenge of being small is great, despite the compensation they receive for involuntary small business disadvantages, I urge them, of course, to reopen this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e907	Let me thank you for the answer. But the main reason Ulvik heread has addressed the question of ‘involuntary small’ is that they believe that they should be credited for the large amount of work and the resources they actually put down in line with the order from the accumulation and government to take it as the former state council for the area, Jan Tore Sanner, referred to as the neighbour talk. That the result was not as expected or desired, Ulvik could not be discredited for this. The situation now is that the County Council of Hordaland has a different opinion from that of the State Council, where the County Council also refers in letter form to the fact that they have voluntarily placed themselves in a situation where they are a small municipality, and that you should have done a better job than you did. Does the Council agree that Ulvik has done a great deal of work here, and does it agree that it is okay for the County to talk about the municipality in the way you do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e914	I am familiar with the County letter, but it is also the case that this letter does not deal with compensation, so that the County has made a different assessment than the Ministry. I have now explained the department's assessment. Ulvik's done some work. The result was not as they expected, but they have not suffered any loss on this, and therefore they are not compensated. In fact, they have benefited from the new system, because they have regional disadvantages, so that of course you don't get compensated for any loss you don't have. That the County and the Ministry make different assessments, yes, it happens from time to time in different contexts. We've also seen that in border adjustment cases. But our assessment is that they are involuntarily alone, and that they have done a job. And we'd like them to continue that job if they find the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e919	Once again, I must be allowed to thank for a clear response from the Council of State. I guess the County Council in Hordaland also listens to the Questionnaire in Stortinget and gets this signal, and perhaps adjusts its way of expressing itself, in line with what the Council of State expresses. It is true, as the Council of State said, that it had financial consequences for some municipalities to remain as a small municipality after the conversion of the income system. A majority of Stortinget has also stated clearly that they do not want to use the income system to punish municipalities that remain as small as possible. I assume that the Council of State will follow up. I believe that a sample should now be set up that goes through the income system in the municipalities. What leadership will the Council of State provide for the work of the sample — will it be in such a way that the majority of the Grand Duchy is followed up to ensure that the income system does not penalise the municipalities, based on standing up as a small municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e928	Now that mandate is not clear yet, so I have to come back to it. But I know well about the decision of the Storting, and I just have to say that I am a full supporter of a system that is as objective as possible, that has legitimacy, that people understand, and that everyone can relate to. We will still have 356 municipalities after 1 January 2020 – too many, you ask me. But it's not going to change the income system; it's going to happen because you see yourself earning it. You should neither win nor lose on an income system – it should be as objective as possible. But then it's like we have some factors that have to overcome in order for one, for example. have large areas, that one has large regional disadvantages, that one has a high distance from the service provision. That's what we wanted because we've spread settlements, and because we want to have settlements across the country. So we get to get closer to it, but my answer will be a most objective system that has legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e946	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e954	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e959	«Health Morene and Romesdal shall cut 200 annual works as immediate measures to afford to build a new hospital. Against this background, it is proposed to lay down 33 beds in the rehabilitation services, lay down the district psychiatric centre in Lake Holt, collect bed posts between Molde and Ålesund and lay down one of the food departments in Molde and Kristiansund. There is no doubt that the cut suggestions go beyond important patient offers. Will the government and the state council sit calm and see that this happens, or will the state council intervene and stop the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e966	On 4 December 2018 the Health More and Romesdal Board of Directors adopted a budget for the company for 2019. At the same time, the Executive Director was asked to submit a cost savings plan, corresponding to 200 annual works with an economic impact, as early as possible in 2019. The Management Board requested the submission of an implementation plan for adopted budget commitments to a Governing Board meeting in January 2019. The proposal was clarified yesterday in the board meeting in Health Møre and Romesdal for a cost saving of 131 million. kr, instead of the number of annual works. It is the responsibility of the Management Board to establish the budget and to organise the overall activities of the undertaking. The Management Board shall supervise the activities within a defined framework. When the board of Health Møre and Romsdal made specific demands on, among other things, 4 December. manning, Health Middle Norway states that it must be seen in the light of the fact that the undertaking has used more than the revenue on which it is based over several years and that it is absolutely necessary to implement measures ensuring that the service can be provided within the financial framework in the future. The Health Minister is briefed that the next Governing Board meeting is 24 January, and that the health company wants transparency about the situation and the areas in which it is viewed. Information has been provided on the main areas in which they wish to start conversion projects, as well as information on the interim measures being assessed. For several of the measures, it is stated that further evaluations are necessary before any proposed measures can be proposed. The board of directors with final proposals from the Executive Director, as informed by the Minister of Health, is not ready. But it is fully possible to understand that the situation is perceived as demanding for both patients and employees. Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway are responsible for providing adequate services to the population. The Government assumes that conversions are carried out in such a way as to ensure that the responsibility remains fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e977	First that it is the municipal minister who answers, because according to the government the Minister of Health has gone away, but according to NTB he is no more away than that he is in Hadeland and is discussing new government. I mean, it's a shame, and it shows a lack of respect for the Storting and the questions that we're raising, that I think are pretty insensitive, and that couldn't wait for 14 days for the next question hour. I hear the answer that the municipal minister reads out, and that's the answer from the Minister of Health. It's a very serious situation. I understand the answer so that the government has to assume that the health care agency is following up its responsibility to provide defence services, despite the extensive cuts. But if those who are known, as I read, are carried out, does the government think that shutting down DPS, shutting down the food department, shutting down rehabilitation are measures that one will accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e984	First to the Minister of Health's place of residence. I don't know more about that than the questioner. I've been asked to step in, and it happens that we do for each other. So I'm not going to answer for that, but I guess I'm assuming the asker is right in the resort. As far as the relationship with Health More and Romesdal is concerned, it is the responsibility of the board. That responsibility must be taken seriously by the board, and we expect, of course, as I said, that within the framework laid down. But I want to add that in the case of Health Mid-Norway, they have had positive results since 2008. They are also expected to have positive results for 2018. Then it's not the state that has set the performance requirements, it's the health companies that do. We are in the position that the board implements what they think is necessary, and then I can't wonder what measures it can take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e993	I read in the media that the director of Health Mid-Norway says that it is not appropriate to transfer more money to Health Møre and Romesdal. At the same time, he says that it is not appropriate to look at the distribution of money between healthcare professionals. And when the council says that Health Mid-Norway has a positive result, there's something that's not right when Health Moor and Romsdal now have so little money that they have to borrow money to afford to pay, and they have to save half a billion in the next three years to afford to build a hospital. Building hospitals and operating hospitals are two different things. Is it so that the government felt that today's situation is quite fine? Is it possible to shut down established patient services, maternity wards, DPSs and rehabilitation sites to build a new hospital? This is the government's responsibility. Can one stand and see that it happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1000	In general, we believe that we have delivered solid hospital budgets over the years we have been in government. Then, in the state budget, we distribute the money between regional enterprises. Internal to the undertakings is the region responsible. Of course, the questioner is well aware that a public sample is now working to look at the criteria for regional distribution. But the system, as it is today, we don't have plans to change. We have to get back to what the public authority thinks about the distribution between the regions, but that's something other than what the questioner really asks about. In-house, regional health companies make their assessments and are responsible for them within the framework we have established.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1010	‘The government has set up a sample to assess the need for an ethics information law. Consumers today have the right to know how, for example: Cobalt in mobile phones and electric cars has been produced. The extraction of cobalt in Congo is often carried out under unworthy working conditions. Peace Prize winner Denis Mukwege raised this issue in December. Will the Council of State take the initiative of an ethics information law that guarantees consumers the right to such transparency?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1017	As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I share the view of the representative of Bastholm that consumers should have a real opportunity to make informed choices. The availability of information on the environment and working conditions in the supply chain improves the choice for consumers on the basis of their own preferences. I perceive that many businessmen are also concerned about this. Several share information on production sites and their work on social responsibility and the environment. It's very positive and something we have to encourage that business still does. In many industries, companies compete to hijack conscious, socially connected customers, and the use of branding schemes, transparency about suppliers and thorough work on corporate responsibility in their supply chain provide competitive advantage in the fight for customers engaged in ethics and the environment. The Ethics Information Committee was established on 1 June 2018 and investigates the appropriateness of introducing a social responsibility information obligation in the supply chain. Any obligation will require traders to inform about where their goods are produced and about work on social responsibility in their own supply chain. The committee is widely composed and chaired by Professor Ola Mestad, and the report will be available in December. I look forward to that. The efforts of traders to counteract unworthy supply-chain jobs are a rather complicated issue, and it would be a little unfortunate if I were to decide on the information obligation before the matter was investigated by the sample – precisely because of its complexity. And even if the issue of an obligation is not fully resolved, there is nothing to prevent consumers from asking about the social responsibility where they act. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I would like to encourage consumers to use labelling schemes such as the Eco-label Swan Label, to ask for information when they act, and to be conscious consumers. Our consumer power must be actively used. That is what is also involved and contributes to change. Dedicated consumers should use their purchasing power to build up under social responsibility as a competitive advantage for traders, and I hope that we will see more and more of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1030	I also put that call on consumers to support me. But there are now very big differences in business in how open you want to be. Some choose to be open about production and working conditions, and this is excellent. For example, companies like Stormberg, Hennes & Mauritz and Helly Hansen have published their factory lists on their own websites, and that's great. But it's far from everyone who's so good. The textile industry has come a long way, even though companies like Vero Moda, Victoria’s Secret and Swix still choose to keep their factory lists secret. This makes it very difficult for a consumer with values that are about not wanting to contribute to child labour or to modern slavery – that consumers, in good faith, buy products that contribute to this. That's what's the big challenge here, because the distance between the producer and the consumer has become so great. Then – I hope – both I and the Council of State agree that an ethics information law will give consumers the consumer power if they want to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1037	I absolutely agree with the Bastholm representative on this. The fact that several traders share such information is very important, and there are still many who do not. Our goal must be that everyone gets there that you do it. The legal space for a possible law on ethics information is affected, inter alia. by EEA legal obligations, obligations under the WTO Agreement, etc. This makes the investigation a very important part of the work being done and the basis for the mandate to assess whether such an obligation should be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1044	What we're talking about here is whether the state is going to take some initiative at all so that the part of the business that is not so good at showing transparency and checking back in the supply chain can defend the contracts they have – that they're getting good enough. This is not a law that has been intended by Stortinget as a minimum or that there should be some kind of certification inside the picture. It is simply a requirement to show what the supply chain looks like, and that is to say, what the conditions are like at the factory. Perhaps the worst example we have is the collapse of the textile factory Rana Plaza, where 1,134 people lost their lives. It shows why an ethics information law is needed, because then a lot of time was spent looking at who actually had contracts, and who thus also had a responsibility to ensure that the workers had the rights they should have. My final question is: can the Council confirm that the intention of Storting, that is, that the Ethics Information Act should also ensure transparency throughout the production chain, is still the plan, and that we will also see that this is what the government considers after the investigation comes on 1 December?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1051	Yes, my starting point is that, and I see – as I said – with great expectation that the investigation will give some recommendations on how we can make a law that will respond to it. Fortunately, as I pointed out, today we have some branding arrangements, both the Swan brand, the EU Eco-label and Fairtrade. These are very good initiatives that I know are valued by consumers. I also believe that we are now seeing more and more societal developments in which consumers are concerned about the backwardness of work and decent working conditions in the supply chain – that there will be more and more demands on them, and therefore that even entrepreneurs want to be open about this on their own initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1061	‘When Stortinget decided to purchase new rescue helicopters, means were put in place to adapt landing conditions in hospitals. It's set at 40 million. krona to repair landing site at today's Stavanger university hospital [[SUS]] Can the Council of State clarify what is concrete to prevent the government from using the dedicated funds for the landing site at ‘New SUS’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1068	The majority decided on the treatment of Prop. 146 S for 2010–2011, Acquisition of new rescue helicopters, etc. for the period from 2013 to 2020, on 6 December 2011 that the Ministry of Justice and Security may implement infrastructure measures, including adaptation of the landing facilities of hospitals using today’s rescue helicopters. The new rescue helicopters have a higher weight and provide more rotor wind than the current Sea King helicopters. This makes it necessary to make adjustments to helicopter landing sites in some Norwegian hospitals. However, landing sites in new hospitals, such as in the case of new Stavanger University Hospitals in Ullandhaug, are not under the responsibility of this procurement process. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has stated that the costs of landing sites are part of the overall cost framework of the project for a new hospital in Stavanger. Health West has received a loan commitment of up to 70 p.m. of the estimate of costs. The remainder must be financed through own resources. There are no suitable places for the establishment of temporary landing sites at the current university hospital for the new rescue helicopters without major investment being required. It is therefore agreed that, as a temporary solution, Stavanger Airport Sola will be used until a new hospital is ready with its own helicopter landing site. Therefore, the original plans to use funds from the rescue helicopter acquisition to repair existing landing sites have been scrapped.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1079	I thank you for repeating the answer I also received on my written question, although this was another question. My intention in this matter is first and foremost to clarify what are the obstacles and what factors the government has stressed when one has said no. And so it's about the permanent landing site of the new rescue helicopters, not the temporary one. My starting point is that here there is a square interpretation of the government's decision on the basis, for the Storting decision, to which the Council of State refers, has no demarcation whatsoever, as the Council of State says. Here is to adapt the landing conditions of the hospital. It's set at 250 million. NOK to do this, and one has charted that this applies to eight hospitals. Can the Council of State then demand, or confirm, that there is a moment when the precedent has been stressed when a person has given up a refusal, when a person is so strong that he will not use the funds in new hospitals? Of these eight hospitals that one should make adjustments to, it's only in Stavanger an assessor to build a new hospital, so I don't see the room for precedent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1088	When the Department goes to Stortinget and asks for funds, they also explain how they intend to use them. Then it is not for the Minister of Justice to spend that money on anything else. In this case, the Storting must decide that the money will be spent on something else. In this case, it was therefore not appropriate to establish a landing site at the old hospital. The new hospital will have landing space, and that must be the important thing. The important thing is that there will be a new landing site adapted to the new heavier rescue helicopters, and that will be in the plan there. It can't be an independent goal to spend 40 million. kr more than you need to get a landing site; the important thing is that there is a landing site.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1095	I would like to remind the Council of State that he was willing to use taxes to clean up and spend $40 million. kr at the old hospital, on the existing landing platform, which was to be removed, but not willing to do so on the new one. In the decision of the Storting there is certainly a room for assessment, but the assessment is made by the government and the Council of State. One says clearly here too that there are increased costs by adapting the new landing platform at the new hospital when a new hospital is being built. Does not the Council of State see that Stavanger University Hospital – as the only hospital in that portfolio you will see in this project, which builds a new hospital – has increased costs, not by building a landing platform, but by specifically adapting that landing platform to the new rescue helicopters, i.e. the project and mission from the Stortinget to the government? I will therefore try to clarify what the government considers, that this is contrary to the Storting decision when it is so clearly about adapting the landing platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1104	The important thing here is that the new hospital will have landing sites adapted to the new helicopters. It is already within the cost framework. And that must be what's crucial here. It can't be an independent goal for me as Minister of Justice to say that even if there's money in there, we need to spend even more money on getting the exact same landing spot. The important thing here is that in the plans and sketches of the Ministry of Health and Welfare – those responsible for building a new hospital – there will be a landing site for a new rescue helicopter. That's what's important to me as responsible for the rescue helicopters. This time we did not find it right to spend the money on the old hospital – for many good reasons – and then we do not spend that money on the old hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1109	Case No. 2 is then finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-16.ana.ud566e1123	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? That hasn't happened. - The meeting has been cancelled.
