ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e28	The representative Nina Sandberg, who has our permit, has taken the seat again. It summons the alternate from Akershus County, Solveig Schytz, taking no seat. The application for sick leave for the representative of Mazyar Keshvari was made from 6 February onwards by the Progress Party’s Enlarged Group. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be processed immediately and accepted. The sales representative, Carl I. Hagen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e58	Carl I. Hagen is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e74	On Monday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet with oral question time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e83	President and Prime Minister – if I may – it is the day of the common people. Lihkku bevviin! I think we should also mark it from Stortinget on a working day. My question is about a formulation in the Granavolden platform that says that repurchasing should be done as a 90-post. It's a little cryptic, but that means we have to reacquire – we understand – a new government quarter and a new frigate by leading it below the line. Those who have worked with budgets and who have been in government know that there is a temptation that often comes to mind: Can expenditure be carried out during the section? Under the heading, you have to carry money that is about investment or lending, i.e.: that you can get the money back. That is why there are a lot of good ideas about the consumption and use of money that does not belong there. Now we understand that repurchasing a sunken frigate and a bombed-out government quarter is to be carried there. Everyone understands that this is consumption. And everyone understands that this is a violation of the rule of action, which was meant to set clear limits on what we use, illustrate it, show it and be clear, so that the oil nation of Norway can spend money responsibly. I think everyone also recognizes this technique of hiding this money – we recognize that from other countries in Europe that have lost control of the economy. Our pension fund is a pension fund where we are going to save on pensions. So it's not an insurance fund. That's where we're going to invest in the future. Then you might be tempted to say, is it the intention to be able to carry these expenses during the line that we will sell the government bill once in the future in order to pay pensions? I don't think so. In 2013, Erna Solberg said that she and the Right were the guarantor of the rule of action. Now the new fiscal figure for the Progress Party says this is a good idea. The Progress Party has been put through. Erna Solberg says it's her idea. It says something about how the Progress Party has affected Erna Solberg and Right. So I want to ask the question: why is Erna Solberg no longer a guarantor of this rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e97	The government is a guarantor of the rule of action. But I will first say again that February 6th is an important day in Norway, so lihkku beivviin! It's good to celebrate the day of the people together. Back to the discussion about how we carry expenses. We have, on the part of the government, conducted a responsible economic policy from the moment we entered the government quarters. We have been under the rule of action in every budget we have submitted. We have reduced the rule of action in terms of reducing the rate of return, i.e. tightening the legislation related to this. We have also been able to follow much more closely what was the background to the rule of action, namely that we should invest in the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Although we have not been perfect, we have almost doubled the oil money we spend to invest in growth-promoting measures in the Norwegian economy, which was in line with why we should. Then we haven't said in the Granavolden platform that we're going to carry expenses in the 90s. We have said that we should investigate and consider a question of the self-insurance principle, and therefore also the question of whether a person can reacquire large costs in a different way. For me, it is important to say that the principle of self-insurance is a principle that we should actually take a discussion about. And there's no news that you sometimes do it. They did it, for example. for approx. Twenty years ago. Then there was a working group in the Ministry of Finance that went through the principle of self-insurance precisely in the question: how do we carry these expenses? If you read that report, you can see clearly that at the time they didn't think there could be large expenses of this kind, but that it would be less expenses. Another thing is that for a long time we had an insurance fund for the oil industry – for accidents in the oil sector – that the previous government transferred and took away. Today, if we have an accident – for example. a terrorist act — in the oil sector, taking money from the oil fund or from the cash flow before entering the oil fund, to cover those costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e109	Being a self-employed person means that you do not have to pay an insurance premium. So every year it's an advantage Norway has because we have the opportunity to assure ourselves. That means that on the day that comes an unexpected cost that you have to pay, you have to pay it. The attempt to set this up as a future investment is to explore important principles that give us an overview of the economy. Is it responsible that we spend more oil money within the policy of action because we do not have expenditure on insurance, while when we now receive expenses, we have to cover it outside the rule of action and find that money? I want to ask that question to the Prime Minister, since she is now going to investigate it. I haven't seen a single leading economist say this is a good idea. The party's fiscal figure characterised itself as a semi-studented economist and thought he was for it – that's good. But can the Prime Minister mention any professional environments that believe that this is a responsible way of insuring Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e113	I believe it is right that we take a discussion about how we practice the self-insurance principle in the future. That's important, because now we have experience with a big terrorist attack and a big boat that's gone down. In the past, we have chosen solutions other than to take over Norway's operating budget, i.e. within the state budget, in areas where we have seen such major accidents occur, including in the oil sector. Then we take it out of the cash flow, so before we put the money into the oil fund. So if a terrorist act happens on the base, it will be paid by oil money before we put the money into the oil fund. If it happens in Norway, we don't. I think there's reason to go through and see if we're going to think differently. For example, we should. have an exception to the self-insurance principle, which means that we have a pension premium and have actually made out money for that kind of purpose? That's what we're going to consider. I noticed that when this came, the Labour Party could not say yes or no. There were two interviews in 14 days where the Workers' Party was a little open to introduce the exact same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e120	It is open to follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e125	Not at all! We are opposed to changing the principles of the rule of action, which gives clarity and great freedom of action to a government. We're going to read that investigation when it comes, we've said that, but I'm now showing that we're very sceptical about this. We cannot have the principle that unforeseen expenditure should be covered by the oil fund, while when unforeseen revenue comes, we shall use it. We got unforeseen revenue from the sale of climate allowances last year. It dropped six to seven billion. D enter the budget. We can spend that money. But what we're doing now is what we've seen in other countries in Europe, that we're dealing with the principles of good accounting, which means that we're going to lose control of money use and lose the overview of how the Norwegian economy is governed. The sum of what the Prime Minister here says, is that she wants to keep the freedom of action to use the rule of action, spend money on expenses, and when it comes to expenses she had not expected, she will pay for them, but outside that budget. Isn't that irresponsible, isn't this contrary to exactly what the rule of action was supposed to solve?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e134	The rule of action was intended to introduce the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy. It was meant to do it because it was unnatural that we just put the oil money out and didn't use it to build our own growth capacity. The real debate on what the rule of action should be is whether we should spend more money through the rule of action to raise the Norwegian growth capacity for the future. That's what, from a generation perspective, really matters -- that we spend more of the money we take, through the rule of action, on research, development, innovation measures, growth-promoting tax relief and to make sure that Norway is so well equipped for the future that our children have a country that can offer them interesting jobs and other incomes when the oil age is over. The main challenge of today’s rule of action is that in recent years enough money has not been spent through the rules of action for precisely these measures. So I repeat, we're going to consider the self-insurance principle. I hear you have to read the report with interest when it comes. Then I am happy to hear the conclusions of the Workers' Party when they arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e141	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e146	The Prime Minister does not answer the question. She's spent oil money at a record time, they've increased by over 100 billion. kr. This has happened in itself within the framework of the rule of action. Now it is not enough, so now expenditure that is called unforeseen must go beyond the rule of action and into the pension fund, which is no longer to be called the State pension fund abroad, but the country's insurance fund abroad. It's a new principle – spend money there. There's going to be more money into the economy. So we're going to use future pensioners' money to replace these two elements. The terrorist attack and the frigate that sank, were unforeseen events, but our country is full of unforeseen events. We have a harsh nature, we live in a long country – it's going to happen unforeseen things. So what's the prime minister now opening up when she says that that kind of expenditure -- she's flashed out two -- should we be able to deal with the outside? Isn't this a irresponsible way to account for, plan and project the Norwegian economy, especially when we know that what she wants to clear up is future pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e153	For future pensioners, it is very important that we maintain the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. We have been well within the rule of action every year we have submitted the state budget, and we spend more money on raising the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy than previous government did. It's interesting to hear the Workers' Party keep talking about that we spend so much oil money, when they themselves, in their alternative state budget for this year, actually spend just as much oil money. So they were going to use a little less when we stimulated the Norwegian economy to make sure people didn't get unemployed, but now they're going to use a little bit more. In addition, they have an invading effect such as: means they spend almost 1 billion. kr from the miscellaneous item, without any explanation. It's actually spending more oil money in its alternative state budget than the government has done. We're going to figure out the principle of state self-insurance, because we're now seeing that we're in a situation that we haven't seen before. It'll be right to do so, I think, because we have to ask ourselves if we've built a system that makes us unable to rebuild important measures without going at the expense of people's well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e163	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e168	The general message of the rule of action is that we must give priority, and we in this Chamber are responsible for it. The Prime Minister has given great priority to tax relief. For the tax relief she gives this year, it was possible to build a new government quarter and buy not only one, but two or three frigates. That's her priority. She calls it little tax relief – well, then it's small expenses to replace it. It's a real and honest priority. But what she's opening up for here, and that I haven't heard one economist say is a good idea and responsible, is to swap with the principle that makes us know where the money goes. So she says that in areas where we normally invest, which is going to come back as money to Norway, we're going to carry real expenses. We're going to read that investigation, but I'm going to mark here, from the Workers' Party's side, that we're going to stick to the rule of action. It provides great flexibility in the Norwegian economy, and it provides clarity to understand how the economy develops. We are sceptical of what the Prime Minister opens up. I would like to say again that with this, it is quite clear that Erna Solberg is no longer a guarantor of the responsible use of oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e177	We are guarantors of the responsible use of the oil money. We are more responsible because we take better care of the generations of the future as to what we spend our money on. It is important to stress that when the Workers' Party put in office and promoted the proposal for an action rule, tax relief was one of the issues promoted by the Workers' Party as an objective, in order to ensure that Norwegian companies had competitive conditions. It is important to remember that the rule of action means that more money can be spent on the Norwegian economy. At that time, it was important that the use of money should not make the competition conditions for Norwegian companies worse, which they became in the years after we introduced the rule of action, because the price of the crown increased because the oil activity was high. But then it was to be compensated for by improved framework conditions, both through investment in research and development and through tax relief. That is why I would argue that we are more responsible. We are further away from the rule of action in our use of money. We are using less for the current year than the consequences of the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, and we are now going to investigate the self-insurance principle, because that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e182	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e187	In fact, I find it a little sad to hear that the Prime Minister spends more time talking about the Workers' Party than explaining the background to this rather surprising point in the government's statement. For one, it must be expected that the Prime Minister and the Cooperation Parties can at least say a little more about the background, also related to some of the challenges that this point poses. One of the challenges is that there can be a sleeping cushion, that one can choose convenience rather than prioritisation between different projects, but one can also choose the convenience of prioritizing within a project. The Government Quartet is such a question. Keeping cost control can be more difficult if one chooses this type of solution. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is a challenge to classify items suddenly as 90 items and not within the usual budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e192	I believe that cost control is incredibly important in all projects. We're working a lot on that in terms of both road construction and what's going on in the Defense Department, and in state construction. It's important. I don't think that it might have been a different principle for how we insure the great state buildings, in itself would have done it differently, because it must be a political treatment of all matters, and it must be strong follow-up and governance. But I agree that there are challenges to this issue. One of the big things we've done in the government actually means that this is going to be a more expensive project. Because it is difficult to phase in so much expenditure over a short period of time, we have split up the development project. We've made sure to extract the period we're building on. One who had a business-economic view of this would build things a lot faster, but precisely because it will be limited what we can take into every single year into our economy of that kind of activity, we've forced and pulled this out further, and we've scaled down the project itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e197	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e202	No government has ever spent as much money as this. The use of oil money is cloud-high above the level of the red-green government. Never before have we had a government that has had such a loose relationship with money. The government combines huge tax cuts to the richest of the country with simultaneously draining the oil fund, future generations' savings. But there are ways to get out of this. It's called priorities. It's a necessary principle, although, unfortunately, it's only a word that the Right recognizes in celebrations and in the opposition. In our alternative budget, SV has presented a wide range of cuts, and we have shown every year that we spend less oil money than the government. We cut the consulting in the state, we cut in the cash support, we cut in petroleum research, we cut in state oil exploration, we cut in private school grants, we cut in massive toll-funded highways, we cut in among others. in the planning of the ferry-free E39 – in total over 5 billion. kr. Will the government start prioritizing and listening to SV's cut proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e209	Every year, Norwegian governments have spent more money in the state budget. It's happened every year. It is quite natural, for example: because we have an action rule that actually means that we are going to phase into Norwegian economy money that we were not going to use before the action rule in the Norwegian economy – but everything was going to be saved for future generations. It was a line break – unfortunately a line break for some of the critics, who probably got right that we haven't been good enough to use it on what creates growth, but on other things. We make priorities every time we have budgetary procedures. We're pretty tough on the priorities of what we're doing. Usually we get criticism from this speaker for the ABE reform, for example. It is a clear and clear priority that we must constantly have a modernisation focus within all public institutions, in order to have a greater scope for action to give priority to other areas. It's modernisation from below, because that means you can do the simple things that contribute to change. But if that's how you think we should cut in e.g. petroleum research or road construction in Norway is not our priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e216	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e221	The ABE reform can't be called priority, it's called flat cut that we don't know the consequences of. But we can move on to the government's further priority, which is the big tax cuts that have mainly gone to the richest country. 25 B.C.E. So kr less is coming into the community today than in 2013 – 25 billion. kr less, which we could have spent on better community, better well-being, just to take the costs that are coming. We could have increased the wealth tax, made it more progressive and got 11 billion. kr in increased income. We could have reintroduced an advantage tax on residential and leisure property, with 2 billion kroner. kr in increased income. And we could have terminated the so-called tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies – 300 million. kr that we know has no effect. These are priorities that would give increased income to the community. So what we have to ask is whether Norway really can afford the government we have today, with the enormous cost growth and loss of income that we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e229	Investments in mainland Norway are rising. The freedom goes down. We're doing more work. It is the result of an economic policy that helps to stimulate competitiveness and competitiveness. SV does not believe that e.g. reducing corporation tax, which is one of the major tax changes in 25 billion. NOK, and the parallel relief we have had for families, with NOK 11 000 in tax relief for a normal income family now, are the right priorities. We disagree. We believe that both are. One gives you a bigger space for action. For example, it does. even though some groups have worn out their earnings in recent years, all groups have had real disposable income increases because we have increased tax relief, which means that people actually get a little better out. It's a good investment. We take care of the competitiveness of Norwegian companies by keeping wages fairly competitive, while at the same time making tax relief a little bit more frequent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e234	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e239	Current prices in Norway are record high. CO 2 allowances, cables, record exports of electricity and high electricity charges are the reasons. As high electricity prices as we now have is tough for people and households, and it's demanding for Norwegian industry. All parties have agreed to have a power exchange. We've had that for years. At the same time, Norwegian power policy has been based on a compromise between the ability of the power industry to operate economically, the need for reasonable electricity for consumers, and the fact that Norwegian industry has to have a electricity price that is a competitive advantage compared to other countries. We clearly have that balance. This balance is now distorted by the construction of the NorthConnect cable. Power producers may build their own network. Those who are going to sell power are going to build the grid. It's something completely new. It's like putting the goat to fit the oat sack. Before the Central Party left the Ministry of Oil and Energy, we changed the law so that it would not be possible to deploy the cable in this way. Statnett, who is responsible for network expansion, has not advised to deploy the cable and believes it is not appropriate to deploy a clean export cable for electricity. The builders themselves say that the electricity price will increase as a result of the cable. Why is it so important for the government to build a cable when it leads to electricity prices increasing even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e255	What we know from experience is that the cables and the power exchange we have help us balance out peaks that we would otherwise have had. That means, something NVE's analysis has shown, that in drought periods and winter periods, we could have had two to three times higher power prices in Norway than what we've had with cables. This means that we would have risked having violent fluctuations that would have been difficult to plan both for businesses and for individuals and households in Norway. Therefore, it is essential that we have exchanges, because Norway is very heavy inside – and our main source of power is – the hydropower. The other important thing is that we want a good expansion between power generation and new transmission connections. It's both about making sure that we get a stabilisation of our own power system, and that we actually build up new power. Many farmers have experienced in recent years that they have received additional income for their agriculture precisely by being able to expand local power sources and mini-power plants and connect them. It would have been more difficult in a situation where you didn't know you could get the power. Many wind power projects, and our objectives of more renewable energy in Norway, would also have been more difficult to realise because it would not have been certain whether the power could be diverted. Therefore, it has also been important for the development of new renewable energy that we have had more stable, long-term price images, because in Norway, at least in the medium term, we have a surplus in our own power market. That is why we also believe that cables are important, because they help to stabilise and provide better and longer-term framework conditions, including for those who need to expand. But it also provides more stable prices for consumers in Norway than a system where we had not had this exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e264	When the Prime Minister now talks about warning against tops and bottoms in imports and exports to secure our own supply, she talks about a situation that no one has spoken against. There is no one who has said that one is against power exchange, power exchange we have had for many decades, that makes sense. But Statnett, who is our web builder, has warned against this expansion precisely because it is no protection against drought here at home. It is a pure export cable, it should only export electricity to the United Kingdom, and it is the power producers themselves – who have a self-interest in the widest possible export of electricity – that are allowed to build that cable. In a matter like this, the state cannot just run the power industry errand, one must also think of Norwegian industry, one must think of Norwegian consumers. Now there is a strong warning from the industry, so I have to ask again: when the only thing we know for sure about such a cable is that it will give Norwegian consumers and industry even higher power prices – why is it so important for the government to get it built?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e269	First of all, I want to say that this is a matter we have for concession treatment, so to say that it is very important for the government to get it built before we're done with the concession treatment, is to draw some conclusions. I've responded in general to why we're open to build multiple cables. We also agreed on the agreement of the government parties with the Workers' Party last year that we should also assess the whole of the market and its development before finishing everything. There will be a review of all the societal benefits and costs of the project, and we will hear the hearings that are coming. Only projects that are socio-economically profitable will be granted concession. But we have therefore assumed that we should complete the application before promoting any legislative amendments, which we agreed on last year with the Workers' Party on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e276	It is opened for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e281	The flow is for animals in Norway, and the government has actively promoted and managed a higher electricity price policy – more expensive power for you and me. The charges on electricity are increased by 36 pst. during the last five years. With the Chairman of the Party of Advances Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance and Right-Chair Erna Solberg as Prime Minister, the fees on the current are historically high. It is clear that for the main sponsors of the Right, those who are all, the richest in Norway, who come forward with the wallet and make sure that Erna Solberg becomes Prime Minister, that is not a big problem. But for ordinary people in ordinary homes, it's a big problem that electricity prices go up, and that charges are on a record high level. In the spring, we will deal with a revised national budget. Will the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Siv Jensen see ordinary people and put the levy on electricity so that there will be less pressure for ordinary people in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e288	I don't know if I'm going to admire the representative Try Battle Violence Vedum for his courage and his stories. In the autumn of 2013, the red-green government promoted a proposal to increase the electricity charge, and it was halved by Stortinget’s treatment. So the center party went in for a slightly higher electricity charge than the majority finally did. The next two times the electricity charge was increased, the Senterpartiet voted in favour. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum spends a lot of time talking about the government's increase in the electricity charge, but the truth is, when you look at the vote of the Center Party in these cases, that it is once they have voted against an increase in the electricity charge, that was the last one, at 1.5 cents. Then we went down one ear, and you've gone one ear further. So there's one penny difference in the electricity charge between what the Senterparte stands for, and what the government stands for. Even so, you use words like that. I'm amazed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e293	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e298	The Prime Minister has no reason to be surprised. She should be concerned about the power price of ordinary people. For the large winner of increased electricity prices, the country is, both with the direct ownership of Statkraft, with increased VAT revenue and with generally increased income in the treasury. The centre party had a lower electricity charge than the government in the autumn of 2018, precisely because we see that the fees have become too high. We also had lower charges in other areas that hit ordinary people, because we believe it is wrong that the charges for the many should increase, while the tax cuts should go to the few. I can notify you here and now that we will have a lower level of charges in connection with the revised national budget when we see the current prices that are in the Norwegian market now. That's what this is all about at the seventh and last: do we think it's right that the electricity prices of Norwegian consumers should be so high, or are we going to take political action to bring prices down? We can take political action to bring prices down. The easiest thing to do this spring is to lower the electricity charges – they are high in record terms. Then is my challenge to Erna Solberg: Will the Right and Will the Advance Party reduce the electricity charges in the revised national budget of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e308	This is how we reduced the electricity charge by 1 cent in our budget. It voted for the entire Storting except SV. They wanted a higher electricity charge. But it is important to stress that the fee we then set off was also included in the Central Party's budget arrangement for last year's budget – just so we remember the story, with the morally offended words that the representative Vedum uses about the position of others here. Then you should take with you what you have stood for. I'm also worried about high prices of energy. I'm particularly concerned about it for people with low incomes. That's why I've said that we're going to look at these issues and on systems and areas, especially based on how long this is going to last, and how high the average price is going to be over time. But it is quite a long time before the revised national budget, and we have not begun to deal with the revised national budget. It happens at the end of April. Exploiting what we are doing in the revised national budget cannot be done now. Then you'll have to wait for it. But then we're going to follow this closely. We are concerned that people with a weak economy – and that was also why we reduced the electricity charge – should feel that prices are not too difficult for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e317	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e322	This is now an exceptional situation, when the average price of electricity in January has been one and a half times as high as last January, and it is expected that the electricity price will be at the same level in the future. Many people notice this on the wallet and are now concerned about whether they are able to pay the bill, and in particular – as the Prime Minister pointed out – those who have high living costs compared to income. In 2010, electricity prices were also high in Norway. Therefore, in January 2011, the then red-green government, and a unanimous increase, proposed an additional payment to all households that received housing support to remedy the situation with high energy costs. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister promise that she can do the same thing as the Stoltenberg II government did: give an extra handshake to those who need it the most, now that the power prices are exceptionally high?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e329	It is true that in 2010 and 2011, the price was also significantly higher on an annual basis than it has done in recent years, and where it was before, and what it has actually done so far – i.e. higher in terms of longer periods of time. That's why it's important to see in what perspective and how long you have a high price. It could be that it continues to be high price, and then it's natural to look at questions related to how we do it. For example, we increased. the housing stock in general. For example, housing aid today meets the following criteria: Children’s families far better than housing support did in the past, and with the improvements we have made in housing support, we meet even better those who are perhaps the most struggling with the economy in Norway, and the families with the lowest income. This means that housing support is a good tool. That is what we did in 2003, when we proposed increases in the civil government at the time after it had been high. I don't deny that it's possible to do this, but we have to see the length of the period. There is no doubt that in 2010 and 2011, the annual price of electricity was significantly higher than it has been so far, and there has been much greater cut-off in the family economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e336	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e341	I disagree with the Prime Minister's description of the housing allowance, because the housing allowance now hits narrower than it did before, so there will be fewer who will be covered by it. What has been my concern here today has been to try to address the concerns that many people experience, when they experience a situation where energy costs are rising and are not transparent in the future, and experience uncertainty as to whether they are able to pay the bill that comes in a month or two. I hear the Prime Minister say she won't rule it out. I would like the Prime Minister not to wait until the year was over and the duration of the high electricity prices, which are announced to be higher in the future, was seen. So I try again: will the Prime Minister open up an extraordinary measure, before the revised national budget, to remedy the situation, so that they can also pay the energy bills and keep it warm over winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e350	I have said that we should look at and follow up on the situation, and that we do not reject this. We have taken a preliminary step. We did that in the budget, because we saw that there could be higher prices during the year. That is why we reduced the electricity charge. That's 650 million. kr, which has been withdrawn on an annual basis from the State budget related to this. It is a relief that families are already getting on the bills they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e355	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e360	Let's talk about them as it's the most serious thing about when we have high power prices, namely those that can't afford it. In Norway, it should of course be that no one should freeze because they cannot afford to pay the electricity bill, but what happens is that it is cold in Norway, and there is a high electricity price. Of course, for some people it doesn't matter – if they want to save, they can turn off the heating in the driveway to the villa – but for people with poor advice, this is serious. Someone turns off the flow in room after room, in fear of the bill becoming too big. So it's possible to provide security for people with little money. As already mentioned in the debate here, governments of different colors, both in 2003 and 2011, made an extra payment to people with housing support when power prices became very high. I and the Prime Minister were involved in this in the declaration debate last week, and then the Prime Minister said that with an extra payment for heat for people with bad advice, the prices were not at the same level as when the Red-Green Government did this in 2011. But now it turns out that the prices this winter seems to be higher than when Erna Solberg himself did this in 2003. When we see these figures, I will challenge the Prime Minister to think about whether she has no less time than she has so far expressed – unless this is more urgent, and whether we are not in a situation that is natural to compare with 2011 and at least 2003, when Erna Solberg himself was involved. If you can give one handshake, you can do two, I think, and that's why I wonder if the Prime Minister will do the same thing as in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e369	I can give many hand bills to people who are struggling -- that's what we do in our state budget, that's why we have a lot of targeted measures for people who have challenges in life, so there's no shortage of them. That is why we also proposed a reduction in the electricity charge, which SV voted against. SV has systematically been in favour of higher prices, having higher electricity charges through several state budgets, and this year they chose not to use the 650 million. NOK, which we have brought back to Norwegian families and Norwegian consumers, which means that their electricity price would be a little lower than it would otherwise be. Then I agree that it is possible to look at good solutions, but I do not agree with the calculation that I have seen that the representative Audun Lightbakken has in today's VG, it was well, where he believes that by rebalancing the price from then until today it is the same reality. Because it is clear that the real economy has changed significantly for families. For example: Minimum pensioners have been raising the real economy by 45 pst since 2003. In nominal dollars – if you were to use it – it would have almost doubled what you have in retirement. So the feature with regard to the family economy is slightly different with the price level that is now. But I have said that we are open to look at different ways of targeting actions that can contribute. The housing aid has increased in the year's budget, we have reduced the electricity charge in the year's budget, among other things. to help everyone get a lower price, and to give people with high housing costs a slightly better economy to better manage it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e376	I am pleased that the Prime Minister took up the electricity tax, and I was absolutely sure that she would. The point is that economic policy must be seen as a whole. Firstly, the Prime Minister has not reduced the electricity charge, she has increased it altogether in its time. It is absolutely right that we proposed to continue it in the 2019 budget, just as we are proud to increase some environmental taxes because it is necessary for the environment. You can do that if you combine it with a policy of justice. With our budget arrangements, people with poor advice had much more to live on. There had been increased housing support, it had become more difficult for caregivers, it had been increased child welfare, it had become more older with low pensions, and it had become lower taxes for ordinary people than with Erna Solberg's scheme. However, when an unsocial economic policy is pursued, of course, tax increases turn out in a completely different way. Then I understand that the Prime Minister believes that the poor are so much better than in 2003, and that we are not in the same situation. Well, there's 34,900 fewer people getting housing support now, than before Erna Solberg took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e386	There are many more families with children who are struggling to do so today because we have made changes to the system. We've targeted it better, and we've made sure to update the income figures – it's not two-year-old income figures that form the basis – so that people who actually have a significant income improvement do not get housing support. It's more focused, and there are several families of children who actually get it. Then there is agreement on many of the measures that the representative mentions, which are important. That's why we have increased housing support in this year's budget. That's why, in the budget agreement at Stortinget, we also have increased the minimum pension. The minimum pension has increased significantly over the last few years. That's why we have lower child care costs for those who have low income in the family. It is to make sure that children can go to kindergarten because it is a good educational offer, but also because it is targeted for the families that labor the most. And so is the fact that in the budget agreement on the Stortingen, child-rescue was increased by the activity of the Christian People's Party in order to achieve it. In all these areas, we have strengthened precisely the areas mentioned by the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e393	It is opened for follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e398	This is just creative new talk. It is not possible to ensure that almost 35,000 fewer people receive housing support and so say that the scheme has been strengthened. It just comes to the top of a number of other usocial cuts under this government. We've been talking about underprivileged dependants, we could talk about years of reduced purchasing power for the elderly with low pensions, we could talk about single-parents – the list continues and continues. The Prime Minister's concern for them at the top is boundless, while people with little pay. Then my question is: Does not the Prime Minister think she has a responsibility now – not in a few months, but now – to ensure that the groups she herself has provided for lower income, do not freeze this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e405	I have not made sure that someone has a lower income. In fact, if you go in and look at income trends, it's true that there are some groups of wage developments that have been following. But if you go into income trends and look at the transfers and the tax system – because we have given tax relief – all income groups have been raised in all ten deciles. So it's part of the images that are drawn that are not correct. Among other things, when we give tax relief, people get better room for it. When we have targeted solutions, costs are lower – for example: to all families with children in kindergarten, who are now receiving income upgrading to allow many to have free core time and even more to receive lower payments — that means less expenditure in other areas. The picture the representative drawing is wrong. We give more targeted attention to those who have a more difficult economy, especially to families with children. One of the groups that have actually been lifted in recent years is the pensioners who have low incomes, through the direct supplements made in the budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e410	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e415	The picture I'm drawing is correct. There is no doubt that a number of groups of people who have little have less than they would otherwise have because of Erna Solberg's policies and various social cuts. I record that the Prime Minister is unwilling to do anything now, despite the fact that it is now that people are aware of the fear of electricity billing. It is too long to wait for the revised national budget. Let me ask the Prime Minister something about this. Through the network charge, the country receives 400 million. kr from households. Energy measures are collected through Enova, money to go to energy efficiency and smart energy measures. Nevertheless, we see that only 165 million are paid. kr to such measures – measures that could mean too many now that the electricity price is high. Will the Prime Minister now ensure that this money is used as they should, and in its entirety?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e422	Of course, we will look at different actions within Enova. It is true that the extra half of the ear paid contributes to enabling Enova to operate both guidance and support measures. It is also important to remember that the guide piece on how to reduce and improve energy efficiency in one’s own house is an important part of it – also in order to be able to convert to other energy sources. We've changed Enova's purpose in recent years to be more concerned with climate action and a little less energy savings. We always have to make sure that money goes out, but it's not like we spend the same amount of money every year. Enova often provides support over several years, which helps to get measures that may be realized in slightly different waves of how fast and much happens every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e429	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e434	The challenge is that less than half of the money that was to be spent on household measures is spent on it, and I will challenge the Prime Minister to look at it as soon as possible. Finally, let me come back to the situation for them with poor advice, for it is clear that the Prime Minister will wait. It is clear that she believes that the figures we have seen today, that prices are at a comparable level, even higher than in 2003, are not enough. It is obvious that she believes that people with bad advice have it too well for us to do something about it now. Then a question arises: how high does the electricity price have to be in order for people with poor advice to receive help in the electricity billing of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e441	The representative gives me a number of views and opinions that I think are actually a little lower than the dignity of this form of debate – to say that I think people have such good advice that they don't need the money or anything else. Of course I don't mean that. We have a very active policy for combating poverty. We are more concerned with combating poverty than with combating economic activity and businesses, as SV are. We are committed to combating poverty through targeted measures, not least by ensuring that children who grow up in families with persistently low incomes get a starting point that allows them to survive, come out of a situation where they inherit poverty, and into a situation where they can master their own lives and get a completely different development. An important part of what we have agreed on in Granavolden is to reinforce all these measures aimed at families with children. I think that describing it as we don't care about it, both gets wrong and is a descriptive and computational way of making political arguments. We're concerned about it, and we're also going – as I've said several times before – to look at the evolution of power prices and the burden on families with poor finances, to see if we're going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e448	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e454	Speaking of calculating argument: the Prime Minister has spent a lot of time here today attacking the parties that are asking, instead of answering the questions. She is attacking the Workers' Party for the rule of action instead of answering. She is attacking the Senterpartiet for electricity charges instead of answering. However, there are rather simple questions asked by the Prime Minister, and it is rather rare to say that this government has reduced the electricity charge, when this government has overall increased the electricity charge by 36 pst. and the small change they made in the harvest was a reduction in their own increase. It's a total increase that's greater than the red-green government did in a similar period. Before she can attack the Center Party about it, I just want to say that the Center Party reduced even more in the harvest than the government did. But there are two simple questions here. When people have difficulty with large electricity costs: Is it relevant to reduce the electricity charge to the revised national budget? Is it relevant to introduce an aid scheme for those who have the most difficulty with large electricity costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e463	I understand that, with the profile of the Central Party in these debates, it is difficult to be met with information about their own previous vote and what they have put in their alternative budgets. I understand that it is difficult to meet. I've replied that we're going to look at the evolution of power prices. We're going to see if there's any action we're going to implement. We'll get back to that. I've been open to that. That's what I said last week, and that's what I'm saying today. We will also look at the possibilities for different measures. We're also going to look at the order of magnitude and how long the price stays high. It may be that over time we are now going to have higher prices, simply because last year's drought, combined with less rainfall in the mountains in winter, may cause this to last longer. Last year, in April, we thought we would have significant problems with too much water, too much flood. It turned out to be a completely different year. It's hard to speculate for months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e472	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e477	On Monday, the Environment Directorate presented a report showing that Svalbard can get 10 degrees warmer towards the turn of the century if the world does not cut emissions sharply. Svalbard has already become 3 degrees warmer since the 1970s, and the warming happens twice as fast here as in the rest of the world. Svalbard is Norway's Tuvalu, the small island country that first notices climate change. In recent years, more people on Svalbard have been taken by race, ecosystems are perplexing, and pure, polar bear and frost no longer find food. Svalbard is in crisis. As Greta Thunberg, one of the very many young people who are cursed by the climate change of politicians, said in Katowice: If we are to solve a crisis, we must treat it as a crisis. The Prime Minister has managed Norway for the last five and a half years, and in these years Norwegian emissions have been stable. My question is: what kind of self-criticism can the Prime Minister take on behalf of the government when it comes to Norway's efforts to prevent the climate change that is creating the crisis that the Svalbard community is now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e484	I fully agree with the representative that the Svalbard situation is difficult. The Svalbard situation is an example of what we're going to meet with major challenges if we don't get to grips with the bigger ones, and if we don't reach our goals set in the Paris Agreement, and with the reinforced goals that we want to have. That should worry us all. For all practical purposes, it is that we also need to spend considerable more money on investing in Svalbard to secure housing, to ensure housing, to secure the seed stock – many investments that this government has made to maintain things that are affected by climate change. In terms of responsibility and what we do: the government has an offensive climate policy, we're working on getting the big green shift. We see that, not least in the transport and maritime sectors, we now have major changes in the way in which we get better solutions for shipping, with much lower emissions, but there is also a decline in emissions in the transport sector. In the short term, part of it is related to the introduction of biodiesel. In the longer term, there are now the large shifts – both the large electric car share and the changes made in Stortinget through the changes in the one-off fee made by the four government parties – that contribute to the Norwegian car fleet having much lower emissions than it previously had. What we're going to continue to do is work on the framework conditions to achieve both the economic change in individual industries, to stimulate in the quota sector that we should be among the most climate friendly in the use of technologies in the industries we have, and, of course, to implement what we have said in the Granavolden platform: a 45 percent cut in emissions from the non-quota sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e493	I don't know if the Prime Minister experiences the same thing as me, but when I meet people who don't spend much of their time on politics, they're busy with politicians who can admit mistakes, who give others the right, who can look back and maybe look at their own improvements, and what I actually invited to a dance here, was that they've run the country for five and a half years, and the emissions are stable high. I can give examples: since 1990, European emissions have fallen by 22 pst, in Denmark and Sweden by 25 pst, in Norway – since 1990 – we have increased them by 2.4 pst. Since the Prime Minister took over the government in Norway, we have fallen marginally, from 54 million. tonnes in 2013 to 52.7 million. tonnes. It won't last. My question was really whether the Prime Minister could not agree with me that Norway has not done enough to prevent the climate change that leads to the Svalbard crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e498	I'm especially pleased to hear – I think it's the first time – someone from the opposition admits that the emissions have actually decreased in this period. I am pleased that we can finally see that they have done so, because they have done so, as opposed to what is often highlighted. I agree that there are a number of areas, which I think we should all think through, which we were over-optimistic, for example. what the European quota system would give us, when we made the climate agreement in 2007. Then we thought we would get a significantly higher quota price, at the level we now see, but where we did not get the technological shift over a long time because the quota price was too low. In Norway’s climate policy, the quota price has been the governing factor for climate action related to the ETS sector, in addition to what we have done by changing Enova’s facility, so that Enova now provides far more support for greenhouse gas reduction measures also in industry and for new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e505	It is open to follow-up questions – first Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e510	The facts here are that Norwegian emissions have progressed since 1990, and this is significant because of the oil and gas sectors. We've managed to cut in some other sectors, while it's gone down a little bit since 2013, probably for the same reason, namely how the activity on the socket changes, and then we've had a slight change in transport. Svalbard is now in crisis, and if we're going to look a little bit ahead, it's also interesting to know more about how Norway is going to stand up to the Svalbard community when it comes to climate adaptation. We also expect that we will have to spend more money on the mainland in Norway in the future. My question is then: What are the government's plans to set up for the Svalbard community, which is already heavily affected by climate change, and which will be more affected by the race and the weathering of ecosystems?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e517	We're working a lot on overall strategies related to the economic activity of Svalbard, where we need to find other legs to stand on when coal operations stop. One of those measures is, for example: that we have now received a national college that contributes to the employment of teachers, but also to the activity and training related to it. Then we work a lot to build new homes because of razed areas, to be able to secure homes, to be sure to map. Over the last few years, we have spent a lot of resources on precisely that kind of adaptation to the Svalbard climate, because we're concerned about Norwegian settlement, it's supposed to be Norwegian economic activity, but it's also going to be sustainable in terms of the vulnerable environment, like everything that happens on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e522	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e528	There is no reason for the government to be as self-satisfied as I believe the Prime Minister is in the climate issue. The reason why emissions have fallen to a minimum is that the government has not followed up the decisions taken by the Stortinget to reduce the use of palm oil. But I would like to thank the Greens for a good question. The Svalbard report shows what seriousness we face, what climate adaptations we need to prepare for, but we also need to use this report to mobilise against the most catastrophic climate change. The climate does not have time for new releases, but last week it was exactly what we got. The majority voted in favour of 40 proposals from the Workers' Party and SV, for major protests both from business and from the environmental movement. The reason for this was that the government worked so much with it itself. This week, the Ministry of Climate Change sent questions they intend to present to Stortinget this spring. The answer to that was zero things. Now it is Ola Elvestuen who has experienced what it is like to be the Climate Council of a government led by Erna Solberg. Is it really true that the government this spring is not going to make a single proposal for the Storting to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e539	We are working on an agreement with the European Union on the whole of climate policy. When it is not announced to Stortinget that it will necessarily come now – which is the whole framework – it is because we are a little uncertain at the implementation phase, whether it will be delivered in time to Stortinget for treatment this spring. With regard to the 37 proposals from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, the truth is that there are generally proposals under way and some of them have already been implemented. It is nice to create lists, but in substance this proposal, which has already been adopted, is under investigation. Nor is there any reason to say that they were then voted down, it is only perceived that it is a marking matter for the Workers' Party to show that they also have a climate policy. Let me do one example of this. It was proposed to extend the ban on fossil heating from 2020 to temporary construction and to adopt the change during 2020. That amendment adopted the government last summer in a regulation prohibiting the use of mineral oil for heating in buildings. So you have proposals that have already been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e548	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e553	The findings and scenarios related to the report on Svalbard are dramatic. The government has, recently after the presentation of the Granavolden platform, had a relatively high and dark rhetoric related to climate objectives. What we hear less about is climate action. The Svalbard report just underlines that that's what we need. We need great measures, and we need them now. Someone might say that it has become a habit for the Center Party to ask for progress in the much-mentioned Food Transport CO 2 fund, but I will do it again. It would have been interesting to ask the Prime Minister why good climate action is being scrapped as soon as they end up at the climate minister's table, but I'm going to leave it. But I want to ask the Prime Minister if she is satisfied with the progress and attention given to this matter, where we have turned our backs on a very good and practicable climate action that would give us a big cut, and now we are in a situation that does not lead us any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e561	I just want to stress that I'm not tall and dark, I'm a little blond and round, and I don't think I've been so loud and dark in the political argument. As far as the CO 2 fund is concerned, there is an idea from the business community that is good, but they have some expectations that I think it will be difficult for all parties on the Stortinget to meet. For example, their starting point was that all CO 2 taxes that enter the State budget were to be introduced into this CO 2 fund. It had meant that all alternative government budgets had to take out a significant income already in the budgets. These are among the things we have discussed, and we have said that in that case there must be increases. At the same time, the government has a principle that the increases should fall into the same sectors, and we have among other things. said that for car traffic, the increase shall not affect the pump price. So it's important to get some realistic frameworks around this. We've had a discussion about how we're going to handle this. Enova has an ESA-approved support regime that can work. Business wants a different type of model for this. It'll lead to something else in that case, but we're open to having these discussions about how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e579	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e584	I noticed that we did not receive an answer to the question about CO 2 funds today either, and we will probably come back to that. But I want to follow up on something that is also about climate. The government has said that climate policy should permeate the entire government policy. Every year, the Directorate of Oil receives a letter of allocation from the Government. Now we see that under the oil and energy ministers of the Progress Party, climate considerations have been removed from the oil directorate's priorities in the letter of award. How is it related to the fact that climate policy is going to permeate all areas of policy, when the Oil Directorate, which is one of the most important Directorates in this country, does not have a mandate for climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e594	The Oil Directorate has a mandate to implement our oil policy. Our oil policy is climate-based, not least on new technologies. At the beginning of the last period, the government had a review of the incredibly long requirements of all departments, reporting on different parts, for which a modernisation was made to provide better control areas. It's still the way to manage the environment and the environment. It is not that the government does not have climate policy with regard to oil policy, but it is governed by the major framework conditions, mainly after CO 2 prices, charging and the quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e602	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e607	Last week I asked Siv Jensen what the government wants to do with the sky-high power prices. Jensen said that the tax bill means that people can afford to pay. What is then said is that people have to pay increasing electricity bills with old tax cuts that have mainly gone to the richest people in the country. In reality, the January bill on electricity can increase more for a normal family than they have recovered from the tax from the Solberg government. We have a government that opens up to spend 20 billion dollars. kr below the line, i.e. other than the priorities set out in the State budget, but not one krone to help people who are struggling with the electricity price shock. Current prices now go up in the roof due to increased CO 2 tax on electricity from coal and gas in the EU. It's a little strange, because Norwegian power producers don't pay one penny of the CO 2 tax. They don't use one gram of coal either. The explanation is that we import European electricity prices through foreign tables – cables of which Erna Solberg will have even more, one to Germany, one to England in addition to NorthConnect, which is now subject to concession treatment. So the government has gone against all of our proposals that can help with the rising electricity price. They voted against stopping NorthConnect last year. Now the Working Party in the media says no to new foreign tables before we have gained experience with those who are under construction, i.e. to England and Germany. Can Erna Solberg confirm that this is what the other parties and the government have agreed to in the ACER agreement, i.e. first gain experience with new cables before you might say yes to NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e622	First of all, it's absolutely right, and I want to say that we now have an allowance price of CO 2 that is significantly higher. It's important for climate reasons. It's important to make new technology profitable, and that's something I've seen that all the parties in Norway have been busy that was going to happen in order to realize new technology. Then it has an estimate of the power price, because it's the marginal price of power that in any case becomes the pricing of the power even within the Nordic power market, of which we're part. Also long before the cables were built, we were part of it, and it will turn on it. On the other hand, we have, among other things, protected the Norwegian power-intensive industry and the workplaces there by providing a compensation mechanism for the high CO 2 price, which is within the system, and which means that in the future we are likely to have to budget with higher compensation to the Norwegian power-intensive industry in order to secure them in this context. We have not said that we are not willing to look at solutions. We started by reducing the electricity charge in the autumn because we saw that there could be challenges related to higher power prices. That's why we've already reduced some of that bill. I have now said that we will look at questions relating to the length of this period and the burden on the family economy, in order to assess changes in the future. It's an assessment that we necessarily need to spend some time on, also to see the right means to do this. On the issue of the concessional agreement itself, we have said that we should look at the socio-economic analyses related to how a new cable will work. It's part of the agreement we made with the Workers' Party, and we're going to do that before the concession treatment is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e642	It is good that Prime Minister Solberg opens the door for what Red proposed last week, that is to say, to help those who are struggling most with the power bill. But there was no particularly complementary and precise answer to my question, which was whether or not to gain experience with planned cables under construction, before you might say yes to NorthConnect. It says the Workers' Party in the media is in the agreement that the government has signed. We have to get a clear answer from Solberg on whether the Workers' Party is bluffing in the media, or whether they are right. It must be possible to get a clear answer. Otherwise, the climate argument for electricity exports is just a bluff, because we export climate-friendly metals and minerals produced in Norwegian hydropower. It is much more environmentally friendly – i.e. to process it, which is important to contribute to climate change – than just to send the stream straight out as a commodity and build even more cables, which will result in more imports of European electricity prices, which in the long term can hit the bones of the industry producing metals in an environmentally friendly way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e649	I think the representative underestimates both what the locked Norwegian power had meant by varying power prices for the Norwegian power-intensive industry, greater uncertainty about production and what power prices you had to live with, if you had a locked Norwegian energy market without having cables or the ability to even out for the winter peaks. NVE has shown that we could have had two to three times as high winter prices as we have had, and it would have hit very hard for the jobs of the powerful industry, making it more difficult to have long-term power contracts for the industry because the market had to price that kind of cost. When we discussed the development of cables, there was therefore a very clear message, among other things. by Norwegian Hydro and other powerful companies, that they did not experience this as a challenge. They saw it as a good thing that we were going to make these changes, precisely because it helps stabilize. In addition, it contributes to triggering even more of the renewable energy in Norway, in which it would not be invested otherwise, because there was no market to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e654	It is open for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e659	This is a pure strawman, and Erna Solberg knows that well. Mr Arnstad explained the matter in detail in the previous round. No games are available to cut all cables. That has never been proposed. We've had cables for Sweden since the 1960s. We are talking about new cables for electricity to England, Germany and Scotland, respectively, which according to NVE's analyses will increase the electricity price – of course – because there is more expensive electricity in Europe, not least in the United Kingdom and Scotland, than in Norway. The question is whether we should gain experience with these two cables, which is what the Workers' Party claims is in the agreement with the government, before you might say yes to NorthConnect, which will give even more power to export and vacuum the West, or if you don't have to do those experiences before you say yes to NorthConnect. I want an answer on what is in the agreement. Does it not agree, or does it not, that experience should be gained before handling NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e666	It's clear that we're going to do all the socio-economic profitability assessments, given that we're getting two new cables, which means that we're then gaining experience in how the energy markets are developing, and how two new cables could affect this, before we're done dealing with NorthConnect's concession request. It is true that I hear that everyone has been for cables. You've been to the Nordic energy market. But it is therefore the Nordic energy market, not the cables we are building – which are otherwise not finished – that are now helping us to have a marginal price that is already linked to the European market. On the one hand, you must not argue against today's situation with cables that are not finished or connected, and on the other hand, you must say that you are for all the old cables. It's not on your fingertips.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e673	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e678	The central part of the government changed the law and made it impossible to deploy the NorthConnect cable. When Erna Solberg became prime minister, it was proposed to change the law again, and it has made it possible to deploy the NorthConnect cable. Last week I had a meeting with the management of the Baugma Group, a major industrial player in Norway. Some of what they were most concerned about were new foreign tables. In the past, I had a meeting with Norwegian Forest, and what they were most concerned about and took up directly was the discussion about NorthConnect. Norwegian industry is worried about that. There has been a completely consistent government policy that has wanted an increase in the electricity price. The Minister of Energy said right in 2016 that it was a target with an increased electricity price. You've increased the electricity charge. It's a fact that the fee has increased by 36 pst. The balancing mechanism has then been removed from the network. In the past, there was a network lease grant scheme that allowed those who had the highest network rental to be compensated for it, so that no one would get an unreasonablely high electricity price. Does Erna Solberg think it was a good idea to remove the balancing mechanism for network rental, which means that many people get a much higher electricity price than they had before?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e689	One of the big things we've done in recent years is to expand an incredible amount of net in Norway. Much of it was launched at the end of the Bondevik II government and in the red-green period. It has been very important to ensure that we do not have restricted areas with poor access to power. I remember very well how the crisis was in 2010–2011, where, in particular, Trøndelag and More and Romsdal had a completely different price zone and a completely different price of power than the rest of the country. Now Norway is reconstructed into one Kraft Norway because we've built this. Among other things, it does. that the network rental is significantly higher, because we pay for large expansions that have been necessary to expand the activity. We've been busy, and it's on the Granavolden platform, that we also need to look at areas in order to be able to smooth out in terms of network rental in the future. We need to look at these solutions, but at the same time it is important that we ensure that the network companies operate efficiently, and it is considerable money to collect for consumers that the network companies operate efficiently. That's well documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e696	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e701	The Prime Minister still stresses the need for social sustainability and claims that government policy contributes to it. But everyday life does not seem particularly social or particularly sustainable for the tens of thousands of sick people who are now hit by the cuts in redundancy pay. Many have been thrown out of the scheme without notice, the money just disappeared. Many people are far from ready-made for neither social security nor work, but do not get an extension. It has particularly affected people aged 40–60 years, and even Nav is surprised by the large decrease in the number – 16 700 fewer – after the new restrictions came into force on 1 January last year. According to Nav, there are already clear signs that there will be more dissatisfaction, fewer transitions to work, more people who still have a reduced working capacity, but who do not receive a job clearance. In addition, it is quite difficult to be referred to social assistance or private care when you are ill – tolerable savings, afraid to have to sell the house. My question is this: Does the Prime Minister still think that the government's cut in redundancy money was a good idea, when she sees the consequences this has had for sick people, who probably had it hard enough from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e708	I believe that there has been a challenge in the AAP system that people have been preserved and not followed up. With the changes that have been made, there has been a clear obligation to follow up considerably more strongly, get a shorter and tighter race for recipients of the AAP. The long period has helped people to walk for a long time without having received follow-up measures. Now we're going to turn that around. We have experience that the longer a person is away from work, the less likely he is to return to work. For the individual, it would be a great advantage that this period does not exceed the maximum required. This is why getting early follow-up and clarification is a good thing for the individual, and it is important as a general rule. The AAP shall be a temporary performance. It shall not be a durable performance. There should be a performance during follow-up and clarification, but it should not be something you have over a long, long period of time. Even after the changes in the rules, it will be possible to receive sick pay and redundancy benefits for up to six years. For most people it's going to be a long enough period. In our opinion, it is important to set a final limit on how long it is possible to receive temporary income hedges from the AAP. For those who are permanently ill, it's not the AAP that's the solution, it's actually the disability that's the solution to it. Then it is important to clarify it at an earlier point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e716	I thank you for your answer. I do not disagree that early follow-up and clarification are a good thing, even for those who are going to social security, but at least one could expect us to see a strong reinforcement of Nav. But it is also cut – 300 million. So far, in the so-called red tape and efficiency cut – and this has only led to longer proceedings. In addition, the measures to get people back to work cut short. Cut into social benefits, cut into proceedings, cut into action — how does the Prime Minister think that this continuous series of cuts will get more people back to work more quickly or more quickly into social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e721	The representative fails to include the additions made to Nav for various actions carried out, such as: is linked to being mentally ill, could be at work and be followed more closely in the so-called IPS model, which is one of the things that we are strengthening. The bill is not that there is a large cut in Nav overall in terms of employees, but there are much more targeted actions for groups, to get people back to work faster. We have a youth effort that is followed up much more systematically than it was done before, to prevent young people from getting into a long-term situation where they are outside. I think we follow up better. I understand that it's hard when you go out of a system and are uncertain about how life is going to be further, but the AAP is going to be a temporary solution, not long-term preservation of people. We need even better follow-up action, which we strengthen Nav to do, in areas and actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e728	It is open for follow-up questions – first Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e733	I have heard what the Prime Minister corresponds to the representative of Christoffersen. I want to challenge the Prime Minister to tell us what is her handshake to those cancer patients who have now gone to the AAP for a few years and suddenly overnight there is no income.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e738	There is a limit on how long you have the AAP – that limit could also come after four years. So there's no difference between the limit comes a year in difference. With the Labour Party scheme, you can rhetorically ask yourself the question: what would be the answer if you are still cancerous after having been on the AAP for four years instead of having been on the AAP for three years? What we're doing is strengthening the measures to be able to be in a combination of work and support schemes. What we're doing is we're doing better follow-up at an earlier point in time. But then we'll always see if there are single groups that have very special relationships, for example. that they are still being treated, to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e745	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e750	I record that the management in Nav has complained that very many have lost their income overnight. Is the management of Nav wrong when they regret it, or is it the government's policy that has led the Nav management to regret what is now happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e755	I do not know that the Nav management has complained that people are losing income. It has always been that when the AAP period is over, other measures will be taken. The challenge is that you haven't been good enough to follow up AAP clients during the period you're on the AAP. That's why you've been waiting too long. That means it's getting harder and harder to bring people back to work. We've set ourselves the goal of doing something about it, with a clearer and stronger follow-up from day one when you're on the AAP, in order to get people back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e760	The oral question time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e774	There will be a number of changes in the configured question list, and the President will show you in the context of the electronic list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Mr Sem-Jacobsen to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, by Martin Henriksen of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has been removed. Question 7, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has been removed. Question 9, from the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Immigration as the appropriate representative. The question will be raised by the representative Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy. Following a request from the Minister for Justice and Immigration, this question will be moved and answered before question 15, which will be answered by the same Council of State. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Gülsvik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 14, from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e798	‘Nordby Shopping Centre had a record turnover of 4.5 billion. in 2018 and is referred to by the central manager as "Norway's largest purchasing centre". Both this and several other giant centers along the Swedish border have plans for significant expansion. Despite the loss of jobs and large investments in Norwegian brewing industry, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have chosen to maintain the strong tax increase on non-alcoholic beverages from 2017. Will the Council of State take the initiative to reduce the levy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e811	As part of the budget agreement on the 2018 budget of the then government parties Christian People's Party and Left, the fees on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages were increased from 1 January 2018. The agreement was negotiated in Stortinget, and the increase in fees was not part of the government's budget proposal. For 2019, the levy on chocolate and sugar products has been reduced to a price-adjusted 2017 level. It will make border trade and online trade of such goods less profitable. As regards the levy on non-alcoholic beverages, the rate of the levy is effectively unchanged from 2018. This does not mean that the government does not take seriously the concerns of the beverage industry. On 16 November last year, the Government appointed a high-speed sample to make an overall assessment of the fees charged on both chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages. A key task is to assess whether the charges can be designed to take account of health and nutritional conditions to a greater extent than at present. The selection shall also consider the limitations of the charging obligation. It is important for the government that the industry is also included in this work. The committee is therefore broadly composed, with representatives from employees and employers, as well as members with health, legal and economic expertise. The deadline for the selection was 1 April to deliver its suspension in order to allow the evaluations to be included in the State budget for 2020. In a request decision, Stortinget asked the government to investigate a reduction in the excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages in order to differentiate the levy from sugar content. The starting point is the models from the United Kingdom, Ireland and Finland. Also, this sample has been asked to look at. It is not natural to make changes to the levy on non-alcoholic beverages until the recommendations of the sample are available. The question put by the representative, Gülsvik, gives the impression that border trade is mainly the result of the Norwegian tax on non-alcoholic beverages. Of course, the price difference between Norway and Sweden is affected by differences in taxes, but other factors are also significant, such as changes in exchange rates and the general level of costs in countries. Also factors such as accessibility and the fact that people find it pleasant to take a trip have a bearing on border trade. A relationship that contributes in particular is the customs walls of agricultural products, but I do not expect the representative Geelsvik to be so concerned about the border trade that he wants to lower the customs walls. But it probably would have helped. A large part of the border trade includes food which has been subject to excise duties to a small extent, including: meat. In the past, the central statistical agency has estimated that about half of the border trade is the purchase of food. Customs normally lead to more expensive goods and lower consumer choice. High customs barriers thus contribute significantly to today’s border trade. I do not think the representative Gülsvik is going to propose reduced rates of customs duties on groceries. However, when the Senterpartie proposed to increase the taxes on alcohol and tobacco for 2019 at the same time, the representative’s concern appears to be a little hollow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e832	The Council of State is talking away from the specific issue of the charge for which she herself has been involved in a huge fee shop, the charge on non-alcoholic beverages. I would like to refer to what the National Assembly of the Progress Party, with the Chairman of the Advance Party, said last April in connection with the specific levy. So one says, «The cross-border trade will increase as an effect of the change in charges. The state and industry will lose billions of dollars each year in border trade.» One also says that the increase in fees may result in ‘browneries having to cut or reduce their output’, and that this increase in fees will hit low-income families hardest. So that's the conclusion that the Progress Party's national meeting had. Is it no longer applicable? Is it such that resolutions from national meetings of the Progress Party are to be issued with «sustainable until the end of the national meeting» and have no governance of government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e846	I didn't talk away from the question, I answered it. I responded to what has been done with both the chocolate and sugar confectionery fees and the non-alcoholic drink levy, that we have reduced a sample to go through this, so that we have the opportunity to take this into account in the state budget for 2020. This sample is broad in scope and has been mandated to follow up several of the request decisions taken by the Storting itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e851	So the tax increase could come as a tax shock with a few weeks' notice, but considering what will happen then, after one sees the consequences, with lost jobs, lost investments, must be pushed out on time. Nothing happened in the revised national budget for 2018, as the Minister of Finance stated, nothing happened in the state budget for 2019. So one refers to a sample work. In the selection process, with the mandate in place, one shall, inter alia: consider major conversions of charges and also assess new charges. There is not a single word that says you should reduce the fees. Thus, when one also sees a mandate for the conversion of the VAT system, the Minister of Finance has instructed the sample to also make proposals for increased taxes so that one can reduce taxes for those who have the most in the past. Where does the social perspective go with such a policy like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e858	I think I should remind the representative Gelsvik that what he just said is wrong. In the state budget for 2019, the government proposed to reverse the tax increase on chocolate and sugar products, and in this respect we also announced that we would reduce this sample, just to go through the scheme. These fees have been a challenge for many alternating governments over very many years. That's why it was natural to put this down as a wide-ranging selection, where the business partners are also involved. They're the ones who have the shoe on and know where it prints, they're the ones who know where the challenge is. Then I think that's the best starting point we can have to look at how these charges should be arranged for the future. When we receive the sample's response on 1 April, there will be a good basis for the assessments that the government will have to make for the entire overall tax and tax package that will be presented in the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e870	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘In its investment practice, Storebrand has planned to gradually reduce the coal criterion to 5 pst. in 2026. During the processing of the deposit notice on the pension fund, the Stortinget government asked to assess whether the criteria for the extraction of coal companies from the SPU investment portfolio of 30 pst. is sufficient to exclude companies with significant coal-related activities. Will the Council consider applying the example of Storebrand to the pension fund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e879	In the context of the examination of the Communication from the State Pension Fund 2018, Stortinget took a request decision to assess whether the current criteria for the exclusion of coal companies from the SPU are sufficient, in order to exclude companies with significant coal-related activities. In letters to the Ministry of Finance on 25 October 2018 and 14 December 2018, Norway’s Bank has explained its work on the product-based coal criterion and the estimated amount of coal-related activities in which the fund is still invested. The Ministry's assessments of the coal criterion will be presented to the State pension fund in the Communication to Spring 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e888	That was the procedure, but nothing about what the Minister of Finance himself has to say about whether or not to reduce. When Norway introduced the coal criterion, we were on the front line internationally, and many funds have since followed, for which Storebrand is now an example. I think this is important, because the values of shares in coal-related companies are likely to sink the more funds that do like Storebrand, and expand. Germany has now decided to phase out all coal power in a relatively short time. It will also help to lower the value of shares in that type of business. So just from the point of view of protecting the fund's values, I hope the Minister of Finance sees the need to tighten up the coal criterion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e893	The representative, Hansen, would like to call this procedures, but he knows very well that we have a year-long practice to follow up decisions made in connection with the processing of one fund notification in depth and properly, so that we can properly witness it in the following message. As I said in my first answer, I intend to do it this time as well, and the answers and assessment that the government is making of this come in the fund announcement, which is announced in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e900	Then we will have to wait in suspense for the Minister of Finance's response in the communication. At least I believe that I can inform the Labour Party that we want to tighten up the coal criterion when the message is being addressed, and I hope that we can get the support of the Minister of Finance and her government partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e905	I take note of what the representative Hansen says, and I promise to follow up on the request decision by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e917	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e925	‘Through increased allowances, increased concession limits and conversion of grants, current government parties have contributed to a situation of overproduction in agriculture. In addition, concessions are made in various trade agreements that provide a shrinking market for Norwegian agricultural products. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that agriculture achieves the market balance that is absolutely essential for profitable and sustainable food production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e932	As Pollestad's representative points out, there is currently overproduction in several agricultural sectors. The reasons for that are several things. Good income opportunities over several years have contributed to the willingness to invest and produce in agriculture itself. The increased production has been an ambition for a total expansion for several years, and I think the centre party in particular has been concerned about it. We see that the demand for important products from Norwegian agriculture is slowing down and partly falling right now. There is a difficult situation for agriculture. There is considerable pressure on income, and everyone loses on it. So it's right that both the previous and this government have to take some responsibility for this situation. It is not right that increased quota limits for milk contribute. All those who increase production must purchase allowances from some others and the total quota volume must be set on the advice of market regulators and trade unions. Concession limits are a structural instrument. The increase in chicken was made when the market was in strong growth. After that, this market experienced a sharp decline in demand in the context of the narasin debate. Trade agreements, both under this and under the previous government, also work. The same thing does work to reduce food waste. This is why the trend in demand is likely to be the main challenge for agriculture in the future. And that's why the agricultural agreements over the last two to three years have prioritised production where the market makes it possible to increase production, such as cereals, cattle, fruit and vegetables. The agricultural agreement says that agriculture has financial responsibility for overproduction. And we say in the Granavolden platform that we will continue the responsibility of producers for market balancing, where producer cooperatives are responsible for market regulation. This is a situation that I, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, take very seriously. Exceptional measures are in place to reduce overproduction in the pig population. I want to have good dialogue with agriculture itself, with a view to implementing measures that can contribute to the market balance of agricultural raw materials. There will also be an important theme in agriculture for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e945	I thank you for your answer. I thought the Council of State would take a little light on some of the changes that were made. For example, for chicken, it was quite dramatic – a change that no one in any professional way had a foundation, from 140 000 to 280 000, a formidable increase. Increased production is good, overproduction is not good. It's a huge challenge for agriculture. We have today weakened the tool after the meat has been produced, after the goods have been produced, to regulate the market, among others. reduced export rights. So then my question is, will the Council of State be positive to the means of regulating production, so that the meat we don't need, or the eggs we don't need, is not produced, and that one regulates them away before that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e952	First, I would like to comment on what the representative says about concession limits for chicken. The first change was made when the Senterpartiet was in the department – I believe it was in 2013. Then it is quite right that it was again increased under the first Council of State in this government – it was done. At the same time, we know that just in the case of chicken, it has been that when you got the narasin debate, demand fell. It's mainly the fall in chicken production that we're still struggling with, because there's been less demand. It is agriculture itself that is responsible under the 1982 agreement for participating and regulating this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e961	I'm a little surprised by the need for the Minister of Agriculture to defend a decision on chicken that the Christian People's Party was strongly opposed to, like the Center Party. But let's do it. I want to address another issue, and it is that the system is such that it is agriculture that is responsible for regulation. Then we have to make sure they have the tools they need. So I just want to listen to the Council of State about something that's a little controversial, and I don't have a clear point of view for myself either. In a situation such as: in egg production, where there is a balance in the market or overproduction, there is still the possibility of new ones to establish themselves. What is the view of the Council of State of some thought that one has the possibility of putting a stop to establishment for certain periods?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e970	The Council of State does not go out of its way to think that new things can happen, but this may, if appropriate, have to be done in dialogue with agriculture itself. That's a prerequisite, I think. But it is now the case that agriculture itself is responsible. It is also in the 1982 agreement, as I said in the previous answer. In other parts of agriculture where there is overproduction, we have also taken measures, such as: with a buy-out. So it's true that the state that the representative Pollestad and I come from has not done as much as the rest of the country, but it's a measure that we have to go in and look at, just to regulate this for agriculture. For no one is earned that there is overproduction, neither the farmer nor we as consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e986	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e994	This question, from the representative of Martin Henriksen to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e999	Lihkku bevviin! I congratulate you on the day! ‘Samian languages are threatened languages. The Sami language selection team presented their ‘Heart Language’ investigation in 2016, with particular emphasis on increasing the use and strengthening of Sami languages in kindergartens and schools. Now the government's concrete follow-up to the report and proposals and a response to whether the Council is behind the proposals or whether it will present alternative proposals. What will the Council of State do to strengthen the capacity of Sami children to become truly bilingual?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1008	Before I answer the question from the representative Henriksen, I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Same People's Day, which is celebrated in various ways throughout the country today. I share the representative’s commitment to the heart language – not least the Minister for Knowledge and Integration as well – and thank you for a question that gives the opportunity to discuss the follow-up to the Sami Language Committee. The Sami languages are the most important cultural carriers for the Sami people. The Sami languages are small and vulnerable, especially southern Sami and lulesamic. At the same time, we now see that several municipalities have become part of the administrative area for Sami languages. I support the assessment by the Sami language selection board that the efforts in kindergarten and school are crucial for the future of languages – both to ensure the dissemination of languages to more language users and to continue vocabulary and grammar, and to build pride, identity and culture that the language carries. Children are particularly susceptible to language learning, and, therefore, Sami-language kindergartens are important. In the Ministry of Knowledge, we are in the process of following up the measures proposed in the heart language, in cooperation with the Sameting, Education Directorate and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. As a concrete follow-up to the heart language, the amount of Sámi kindergarten provision has been increased by 5 million. kr annually from the autumn of 2017. These means are the whole thing that manages, and it has, among other things, launch of a larger project to improve the quality of the Sami kindergarten offer. The new framework for the content and tasks of kindergartens has a specific point on the content of Sami kindergartens, and it is established that this also applies to Sami departments. Co-lingual children who do not attend Sami kindergartens may also expect, according to the framework plan, that the Sami culture will be part of the content of the kindergarten and that they will meet Sami languages. Digital aids can make this more accessible and adapted than before. The Education Directorate cooperates with the Sameting on both the implementation of the new framework for kindergartens and a new competence strategy for kindergarten. Both documents focus on language and language development. In the process of renewing the promise of knowledge, we have a good cooperation with the Sameting, both to renew the curricula in the Sami language fields and to ensure a good content on Sami language, culture and societies in the curricula of the Knowledge Lift and the Knowledge Lift Sami. To make a good offer in school and kindergarten, we need more skilled Sami teachers. Sámi primary school teacher training is now offered at both Sámi and Nord universitet. Sámi College also offers Sami kindergarten teacher training. In addition, those taking doctoral training at the University of Tromsø may choose the course of study Sami as their mother tongue. Those taking primary school teacher training at the University of Tromsø may choose master's degree in Sami as a foreign language.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1029	Thanks for the answer. I think it is appropriate that we discuss this matter today. Many of the Sami languages are small and vulnerable, to which the Council of State referred. And because of the research policy, many co-workers are in a situation where they do not master their own language, or can learn it further to their own children. As a result of the fact that the Norwegian State took the language from a very large number of Sami people, it is not possible to privatize the responsibility for new generations to learn the language. You have to, for example, be able to send children to kindergarten or at school with the same expectation that they will learn Sami as they will learn math or English. It's not like that today. Sometimes it is that we, on the part of the big society, may introduce new policies without paying particular attention to Sami needs. One challenge is the standard of staffing and pedagogical standards in kindergartens, where Sámi kindergartens have a challenge in recruiting adults with skills in Sami language. I wonder if the government is also willing to look at that challenge, and possibly put in extra measures to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1038	That is an important question raised by the representative. The Minister of Knowledge is concerned about increasing the pedagogical density of both Sami and Norwegian-language kindergartens, but also understands that recruiting enough Sami-language kindergarten teachers can be difficult in some places. Somian higher education is now actively recruiting students for kindergarten education and has doubled the number of students in recent years, from six to twelve. There will be no more sociable kindergarten teachers on the brink that we are tightening the standard of education, and unfortunately we cannot adopt more educated kindergarten teachers from one day to the next. But maybe it can motivate more sociable people to become kindergarten teachers and provide a better professional environment for those who already are. And we have made it clear that municipalities can grant exemptions from the educational norm for up to one year at a time, when there are particular considerations that warrant it. Municipalities may also grant a derogation from the training requirement for up to one year at a time if the vacancy for which a derogation is sought has been declared publicly and no qualified applicants. These questions can be taken into account in the treatment of applicants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1045	Money isn't everything. It also points to the language selection because there are many proposals that do not require increased financial transfers. Nevertheless, there is no denying that there is a link between the resources you put in, and the result you get at the other end — for example. in the case of the situation of Sami learning material, which often takes a long time to be put in place. Many students just don't get the resources they need. The municipalities are responsible for the Sami training in kindergarten and primary education, but they often have the financial responsibility for both recruiting teachers and financing the gap between the cost of teaching and what they actually receive from the state. It is Sametinget who is responsible for, for example, Learning materials, but we see that their allocations have not increased in particular in recent years – creating challenges. The question is: will the government take responsibility in the years to come for funding, including: by Sametinget, is improved, so that language training is also improved in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1052	It is true that the Sameting administers these schemes, and that a concrete follow-up to the heart language strengthened the funding for Sami kindergarten services by 5 million. kr in the autumn of 2017. This is an increase that has continued in 2018 and 2019. There is also agreement with the Sameting, both administratively and politically, after consultation, on the framework plan. The merger president has also publicly stated that she is satisfied with that process. With regard to the question of appropriations, there is something the government deals with in the annual budgets, so it almost has to come back to then.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1062	This question, from Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1067	I would like to ask the Minister for Knowledge and Integration the following questions: ‘It has been mentioned as a problem in some secondary schools that students make use of the fact that they can arrive up to 15 minutes late to a 45-minute hour before being absent. Home meal for this practice is from circular UDIR-3-2016 and from local municipal counsellor based on this. This practice leads to a great deal of disruption in hours and a loss of important teaching time for all students. How does the Council of State assess such practice and does it consider that there is a need for clarification and clarification of the applicable circular?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1076	The government is concerned that high school students attend and participate in the education. In order for the students to benefit fully from the training, it is a prerequisite that there is peace and order in the classroom. If students are still late for class, it interferes with education. Therefore, it should have consequences when students are late. The distinction between absence and late to one hour does not appear in the Training Act or the Regulation. This should be decided by the schools themselves and set out in their local rules of procedure. This is also stated in the Directorate-General for Education, to which the representative refers. It's not in the circular that it's okay to be late for class. On the contrary, it says that if the student is often a little late, for example: 5 minutes, it should be on the order or behavior character. No one deserves students to be late for school. I am concerned that the school should give students good habits and attitudes, including: to meet in time. These are attitudes that students take with them in both education and professional life. Therefore, there should be consequences for students if they meet too late for hours. Whether this has an impact on the nature of the order and behaviour, or whether it is carried out as absence – I trust that the county councils or schools have good rules in their order regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1085	I thank you for your answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there can be consequences for the order character, but it doesn't mean that you exceed the absenteeism limit and thus can't have the character of a trade. In some schools, which I have received reports of this, it is a big problem that students who are not very motivated wonder that you can come – as in the cases I have mentioned – up to 14 minutes late in every hour. I'm looking for a signal from the government about how you perceive – when you've been so strict in the attitudes to have an absence limit in school – how far this can go in the direction of a very liberal interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1092	The starting point is that this is something that the individual school and county community should decide for themselves. Rounded if this is very clear that it is the county municipality and, where appropriate, the school, which should have rules in its Rules of Procedure for the time when the absence of a part of the hour is to be regarded as a time off, or when the absence is so large that it should apply as an hour. We believe that it is wise to evaluate it at each school. It also becomes very clear that if the student is a little late, for example. 5 minutes, this should be on the order and behaviour character. So it's not just the limit of absence that's going to regulate this. If students speculate about getting 5-10 minutes late, and one has established a code that says 15 minutes are absent, this will have consequences for the order and behavior character and for the student. It is important that schools use both these arrangements, to ensure quiet and order in classrooms and on the way in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1099	I thank you again for the answer. I just want to add that there was a big discussion, where there were many different opinions, about the introduction of the absenteeism, and there are still different opinions around School-Norway. But the government insisted that it should be implemented nationally. At the time, there were also recordings like: Let it be decided in each state or municipality whether to have an absence limit or not, and how to practice it. When you practice it as liberally as I refer to it, 15 minutes of a 45-minute school hour and 20 minutes of a 60-minute school hour, it almost becomes a bit parochial as to whether it is perceived as if the absence limit leads to attendance in the hours and full participation in the teaching. This also affects other students. I wanted to raise the question and hope the Council of State notices that this is a real problem. I remember the answer, but I don't think this is something you can just ignore.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1108	I have a lot of understanding of the question. The government believes that the national absenteeism limit has proved to be a success, not least for students and for schools. It has contributed to greater presence and benefits for the entire classroom situation. Although we have national legislation relating to absenteeism, we believe that it is wise to have a local space for action to address precisely these kinds of issues. But it is also important for me to stress that the nature of order and behaviour is also an important tool if students, for example. the systematic involvement of a limit when it is registered as absent. Whether that limit is 10, 15 or 5 minutes is determined locally, but one can play on it anyway. Then one has to use the other tool that you have, in order to create order in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1120	‘The government wants more people to choose public transport in their daily journeys and the government is bound by a zero growth target in urban passenger traffic. To achieve this, concrete measures are needed. Recently, the NSB has removed the family discount on train tickets. How does this increase in prices, the increase in VAT on tickets for public transport, and it alerted the tax deduction on toll expenses, to make more people travel collectively?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1127	The government isn't just tied to the goal of zero growth in the big cities, we've actually spent quite a lot of time and effort getting results on it. We have done so through the urban growth agreements with the four major urban areas – in the initial phase, which means that we can also get on with it in the next five areas – and we have done so by contributing 50 pst. of the investment costs of some major transport projects in the four major cities. When it comes to the removal of the family discount on trains, I will show that the scheme was replaced by the age limit for children travelling free of charge, which was also raised from four years to six years. At the same time, the upper age limit was raised from 16 to 18 years at half the price for young people. With lower fares, the government facilitates the use of environmentally friendly travel habits by children and young people, so that they can also choose to travel collectively later in life. Some customers naturally lose money on this, while others gain money. It is also true that when it comes to the competitiveness of public transport as a whole, quality and frequency of supply are as important as the tariff. In the 2019 budget, the value added rate remains unchanged. However, in the 2018 budget, the public transport service rate was raised from 10 pst. until 12 p.m., on which the representative is present. In accordance with the practice of a previous increase in the rate of public transport, compensation was granted through increased licensing to the State’s purchase of rail services in 2018. Correspondingly, the county councils increased in the framework in 2018 to compensate for the increase in costs. Measures to this end have thus been taken further in the 2019 budget. The county councils themselves set the rates for the local public transport, for which they are responsible, but the state and the government have, by their budgetary management, provided that the increase in VAT should not have to be imposed on tariffs. The dominant part of public transport in Norway is not commercial; it is purchased by either county or state. In other words, we take care of it further. However, I can add that the investment we are now making in the collective systems through the budget, and the growth we see in the passenger base on the railways, indicates that we are in the process of succeeding with many important steps for the Norwegian railway. We will continue to do that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1140	I heard a thorough response on various instruments to increase public transport. I did not hear so much about what it means to give a tax deduction on toll expenses – how it will help more people travel collectively or by bicycle and walk into cities, as the Council of State also stressed here is government policy, even government ambition. My first question is how this tax deduction should work, in order to avoid compromising the ability of municipalities to also regulate car traffic into the city – as here in Oslo, where one has major problems with air pollution, and where tolling is one of the ways the majority of city councils agree that we need to use, in order to improve air quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1147	I just want to make sure that I'm not constitutionally responsible for tax matters, it's the Minister of Finance who is. I still think it is natural to see that we have several tasks to solve in the transport sector as a whole. I acknowledge that in many urban areas a local toll has been chosen to be used to reject traffic. At the same time, tolls for people in many other places in the country that will make everyday life go up are also affected by this. This means that the government platform will notify you of its action to reduce the level of tolls. It is entirely right for me that the Greens are against it, it is no surprise that the Greens do not want to implement measures to ensure that the daily lives of people living in the districts continue to function as well as possible. Collective transport there is not a real option. While we're doing this, and making sure that the toll burden is not higher than is necessary for people, we also advocate a solid expansion of collective provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1156	My original question was about the urban areas, and my follow-up question was also about the urban areas. I hope the Minister for Transport agrees that cities have special challenges. This is actually an initiative by the government, a victory that the Progress Party has in the government platform – to powder one of the main instruments that cities have, that is a fact – and if it is the government's intention to differentiate between districts and cities, it should be made very clear. There is also the possibility to better compensate for the increase in VAT on public transport – that is my last question. In Oslo, you don't get fully compensated. The City Council in Oslo has to transfer more and more money from the Oslo budget in order to both offer a good deal and prevent prices from rising too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1163	It is quite right that the Municipality of Oslo should sometimes take responsibility for what they are responsible for. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, through the government we now have, through the urban growth agreements we have implemented, we contribute, for example. given to Fornebubanen, through the growth that comes only in the 2019 budget to strengthen the potential of urban areas to raise collective provision, and by the fact that there are hundreds of train departures every day into and out of Oslo now compared to what it did in 2013, we have focused on this. We have relieved Oslo's collective challenges in a way that no government has done before us. This is a simple matter for us to meet, because the alternative to the policy we have pursued would be to continue as it was: no contribution to the large collective provision, much fewer train departures, no reform of the sector that made us get more money again, and not infrastructure development. We have nothing to be ashamed of; on the contrary, we have offensive policies in this area, including for Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1173	‘In 2016, 191 cases of lack of medicinal products were reported in Norway, 358 cases in 2017 and a total of 684 last year. Deficiencies in blood pressure medications may, for example: create challenges for 50,000 Nordics. Sometimes this presents practical challenges such as the need for a new medical session, and sometimes the health consequences can become more dramatic. What action will the Council of State take against the lack of medicinal products and can he guarantee that life and health will not be endangered by the lack of access to medicines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1180	I look with concern at the increasing number of cases of drug shortages in Norway. Most of the cases are due to conditions outside Norway, which we unfortunately have little control over. Major structural changes in the global pharmaceutical industry affect access to medicinal products, and the main cause of shortages is manufacturing problems in industry. I fear that we need to learn to live with some lack of medicine, but of course we need to ensure patient safety. As early as last year, the Directorate for Health was tasked with reviewing the entire state of medical preparedness. I have also asked the Swedish Medicines Agency to propose a basis for rationalisation in the event of a deficiency – or in the event of a risk of a deficiency. In Norway, most of the cases of deficiency are resolved by the fact that the patient receives similar medicine with a different strength, or medicine from another manufacturer. Another solution is to use packages intended for other countries or to switch to other medicinal products with the same therapeutic effect. The Agency is responsible for monitoring the supply of medicinal products in Norway. There is a requirement in the Pharmacovigilance Regulation for suppliers to notify the Pharmacovigilance Agency at least two months before a deficiency situation. It is also a requirement in the wholesale regulation that wholesalers keep a stock equal to the normal consumption of certain medicinal products for two months. The Medical Products Agency, pharmacies and pharmaceutical wholesalers have established good cooperation procedures to provide patients with the medicines they need. The Medical Products Agency provides advice to doctors, patients and pharmacists on alternative treatments. In 2018, there have been several major drug shortages. Among other things, there is a lack of a blood pressure medicine used by over 50,000 patients. Here, the Swedish Medicines Agency has developed advice on other treatments, and good alternatives have been available. So far, there have been few cases where patients have not received satisfactory treatment. However, shortcomings which require patients to switch medicinal products or the need for a change of procedures by healthcare professionals lead to uncertainty and additional work. International cooperation is important to reduce the number of deficiencies and to ensure good information. Norway participates in cooperation at Nordic, European and global level. In September, the Danish Health Minister and I signed an intention agreement on joint price negotiations on selected medicinal products. Supply-critical medicinal products are an essential part of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1195	I thank you for your answer. I understand that this issue is – to a significant extent – also about what is happening outside Norway’s borders. At the same time, I hope and believe that the Council of State sees that it can be challenging that a person now has quite a few players who control the market globally on some medicines. I also get feedback that, in some cases, when you have too few medicines, you choose internationally to give priority to those countries where you get the best pay. This is a kind of challenge that I hope the Council of State will take up with its colleagues, and it might be interesting to know something more about how to work strategically with this. Because I think it's going to be challenging if you're just going to learn to live with some flaw, when you see that this deficiency increases year after year, and that in the worst case, you risk that life and health are at stake. So my question to the Council of State is: what are you actually doing internationally to ensure that you have enough competition, so that there are more providers and alternatives of important medicines?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1206	It's quite right, as the representative says, that it's a challenge for us to get a concentration in the production and distribution of drugs, and where also very many of the active substances are produced in a few countries, such as China and India. This is an international development that we have to work with both nationally and globally. That is why we have taken a number of decisions and commissioned and implemented measures nationally to be better equipped to deal with the emerging situations. The fact that several medicinal product deficiencies are reported is not good, but it is good that they are reported. I would like to stress that, because reporting it makes us better able to be prepared for the specific situations. But this is something that I also work with internationally with my colleagues, not least at European and Nordic level. It is not a strange problem, but Norway and some of the Nordic countries are extremely vulnerable because we are a small market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1215	Thanks for the answer, again. I think that when the situation is like it's international, it's important that we do what we can at home, and that, for example. drug wholesalers, where necessary, are tightened up on early warning so that alternatives can be found in a good way. Another question is: does the Council of State realise that it is appropriate to extend emergency storage in several areas when we see an increasing number of cases of drug shortages? And in the follow-up to it: I have also received feedback that today’s analysis tools on which medicines are missing – and their range – are not good enough. Today, we know pretty much, as I understand it, just the number, and not whether there are safe drugs or very serious drugs that are missing. It can also be hard to know what kind of pack it is that is missing, whether it is the whole spectrum, or whether you can just switch in terms of number and strength. So has the Council of State intended to do something about getting a better overview of what type of medicinal products are missing, and also whether it is appropriate to increase the emergency storage of medicinal products as a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1226	All the measures mentioned by the representative here are measures that are continuously assessed. A Pharmacovigilance Committee was established in 2014 and responsibility for medicinal products used in the specialist healthcare service from 2015 was transferred to the health regions. At the same time, regional health enterprises also took over the emergency stocks of the Health Directorate. Then it is that national manufacturing competence and manufacturing facilities for medicinal products are a factor that we can use to reduce vulnerability in cases of reduced supply of medicinal products. And regional health businesses are now considering measures to ensure the necessary production capacity in Norway. Of course, the basic and structural conditions of the pharmaceutical market have less influence on the Norwegian authorities, and therefore there is a precisely stockpiling and streamlining systems, possibly increased self-production, which are the national measures that we continuously assess and which are also discussed and assessed in the national Pharmacovigilance Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1239	‘The Health Company in Trøndelag wants to put a day-old ambulance in Snåsa to save money. It is discussed whether Snåsa will be offered a health car or a day care ambulance, but not a local offer in the evening, night or weekend. Snåsa did not have her own bodyguard other than normal office hours, and the nearest one is in Steinkjer, approx. 50 minutes away. The snow ambulance has had between 500 and 600 trips in recent years. Will the Council of State intervene or accept the weakening of ambulance preparedness in Snåsa and will the government give priority to regional preparedness lower than in cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1246	The ambulance service is a central element of emergency preparedness and contributes to good preparedness, including in the districts. The government is committed to ensuring a good system of emergency services, ensuring the safety and quality of the population. Prehospital services will therefore form part of the national health and hospital plan. It is the health regions that are responsible for the ambulance service. I have obtained information from Health Middle Norway about the ambulance service in Snåsa. The recording shows that Health Nord-Trøndelag HF has not proposed to close the emergency response in the municipality of Snåsa, as can be seen from Toppe’s question. The correct thing is that the entity proposes to adjust the standby at night and on weekends due to low activity. During this period, Snåsa is well covered with ambulance resources from Grong, according to Nord-Trøndelag health companies. The system of adjusted standby at night and on weekends was also tested for a period of summer, and the test showed that they assessed the preparedness as sound. Health Nord-Trøndelag also discloses that the changes have been assessed on the basis of previous years’ experience. The figures show that the mission volume for the ambulance service in Snåsa is low at night and on weekends, while there is good capacity at Grong ambulance station during this period. Health Nord-Trøndelag states that they do not give lower priority to readiness in the districts for the benefit of the cities. For example, because of distances, Inner Namdal has five daily ambulances of 8 000 inhabitants, and Snåsa municipalities have one daily ambulance of about 2 230 inhabitants. By comparison, cities have around 10 000 to 15 000 inhabitants per ambulance. As mentioned above, health regions are responsible for the ambulance service and have to assess what is an appropriate organisation. Health Nord-Trøndelag assesses that the adjusted standby in the evening/night and on weekends is sound. The results of the national quality indicator response times for the ambulance service show significantly better target achievement in pig-grown areas than in cities. It shows that the government does not deprioritise preparedness in the districts, as the representative Toppe suggests. I believe that we have a good emergency medical response in Norway – also in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1263	I then understand from the government's response that there will be a day ambulance as a substitute, not a health guard car, that this is what is offered by the health care agency, and that it also applies to evening. Or does it apply night and weekend? – Because that’s also crucial. There's almost a population uprising around this question in Snåsa. A lot of people have signed up to protest letters, it's organized public meetings, and people are insecure. A preparedness analysis of Geodata has been carried out on behalf of Health Mid-Norway, where they refer to the need for more ambulances, and they have not suggested removing it in Snåsa. So I want to ask again, is it actually that the Council of State takes responsibility for weakening the preparedness in Snåsa?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1270	As I replied to the representative Toppe on the first question, it is the regional health companies and health businesses locally that are responsible for ensuring that the preparedness is sound. In that work, of course, they should make thorough assessments. What Health Nord-Trøndelag has proposed is to adjust preparedness at night and on weekends because of little activity. During this time they believe that Snåsa is well covered with ambulance resources from Grong. The system of adjusted standby at night and on weekends was also tested for a period of summer, and the test showed that they then assessed that the standby was safe. So I'm now measuring health regions based on what was recommended by the so-called emergency committee, by introducing response time as a national quality indicator. This indicator shows that preparedness is improved in districts and more than in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1279	It must also be said that there are completely different demands for response time in cities than in districts, so it is more serious if not when the response time in districts, when it is 25 minutes instead of 15. It also has to be taken with the Council of State. I understand very well the people in the districts, when they get ready in the evening and night within 25 minutes today and there is no medical care in the municipality at the same time. Otherwise, we know in the country that this is exactly what is happening in many districts, that we get a simultaneous centralization of both medical and ambulance care and many places also emergency services in local hospitals. It is this concern that has to be dealt with politically. Is it so that the Council of State is not at all concerned about the preparedness of the districts, as in Snåsa?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1288	I'm concerned that we're going to have good preparedness across the country, but what I'm constantly experiencing is that the representative Toppe and the Central Party both here from the pulpit and in the media and in other ways are trying to create the impression that preparedness in Norway is generally weakening, and especially in the districts. The truth is the exact opposite. In Norway, preparedness is generally strengthened, and especially in the districts. It shows the presentation of the national quality indicator on standby. I hope that the representative can now start dealing with facts in this area, not create an impression from some media essays. The representative was very eager to use the non-quality preparedness figures, but suddenly stopped using them when they actually showed a reinforcement of preparedness, not least in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1304	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1312	‘Over 30 pst. of the areas of Inner Helgeland, Grane, Wefsn and Hattfjelldal, bound by protection or proposed protection. As a result, Arbor-Hattfjelldal is unable to manage the increased transport costs associated with the supply of works. Can the Council of State suspend the bundling, introduce transport compensation or take other immediate action to save the 80 jobs so important in the area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1319	Forest protection is important to ensure Norwegian natural diversity and to preserve endangered nature. The background for the ongoing monitoring of protected forests on state soils in Northern Ireland is two-fold. First, in December 2015, the Government asked the Stortinget to review the properties of the State Forest SF with a view to protecting protected forests under the Nature Diversity Act. Secondly, in May 2016, the Stortinget adopted the target of 10 pst. of the forest area. All the games on the Stortinget except the Center Party are behind this goal. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has asked the Environment Directorate to follow up the Storting decision. The Environment Directorate has been surveyed for the protection of State forest land in a number of counties, including Northern Ireland. Only when you know what qualities are on the plots is it relevant to report the start of the protection process. The deadline for the final reporting of protection values in Northern Ireland is May 2019. The environmental management then assesses the areas to be further explored for protection. Areas not covered by protection are at this time released and managed by State Forest in line with the Forest Act. With regard to the scope of protection to which the representative Mossleth refers, I believe that this does not give a proper picture of the status of the forest industry, as the figure includes very large mountain areas. The Protected Mountain Area is naturally not relevant to the Arbor-Hattfjelldal. According to the report on the evaluation of Norwegian forest protection from 2016, the protection was approx. 3.8 pst. of the productive forest area in the Nordic region. This is relatively similar to today’s national average of about 3.5 pst. of productive forest – it's a little below. I would also like to point out that the area that is currently included in the survey of the areas of State Forest in Northern Ireland is about 0.6 pst. of the total forest area in the county. While forest protection is important for natural diversity, forests constitute an important resource for green conversion. We must therefore pursue a policy that facilitates both the protection and the use of forests. When a protection proposal is consulted, there will be a good knowledge of both protection values and forest resources in the areas concerned for protection. This will include, inter alia: be provided with information on forest resources in the areas concerned, so that the economic impact can be optimised. I can assure the representative Mossleth that the consideration of important industrial interests, such as the company Arbor-Hattfjelldal, will be carefully assessed in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1340	It's an old saying that while the grass grows, the cow dies. That's exactly what I began to think about when the Council of State talked about the situation in Hattfjelldal and in Northernland. In the decision in Stortinget that 10 p.m. shall be protected, to which reference is made, there is nothing to bind woodland for a long time. Overall, in Inner Helgeland, 460,000 deer of drifting State forest area are protected or bound. That's almost 700,000 cubic. It's a very large area, and I think the Council of State now has to look at compensation or other immediate measures to rock North Norway's largest timber processing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1347	The protection proposal of 10 pst. I know well. I guess I was the one who took the initiative to negotiate it in 2016, and also the proposal to review State Forest's property. This is a process, and it has also been released already – not so big, but just before Christmas an area of 4 km 2 was released in Hattfjelldal. The next round will be in May 2019. The protection values have now been reported, and a decision will be made on which areas to go further and have a formal protection process, so it is not long before new decisions are taken. It is also clear that in the final analysis, taking into account the need to move on to protection, industrial interests in the area will be an important part of it. But first we have to map, and then we have to put the different objections and input into it before going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1357	Nordland has already taken a very great responsibility for protection. In my municipality, almost 70 pst. of the area protected. Still, I want to put this in perspective. 80 jobs in Hattfjelldal, where it is approx. 1 400 inhabitants, which means the same, relatively speaking, as 36 000 jobs in Oslo. This insidiousness and good time to wait and look at the bonding and investigation and all that the minister pointed out – would he do the same if this was a kind of decision that was about to be made by all municipal employees in the Municipality of Oslo? Hattfjelldal municipality asks for impact assessment in the industry before it is bound. Where is it going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1364	I have not at all intended to strike my legs under nourishment in the Arbor-Hattfjelldal. That's 0.6 pst. of the forest in the county being reviewed and surveyed, and the next round to proceed, where new land from the bonding will also be released, will be in May. When a final decision is to be taken, it is clear that commercial interests will be an important part of it, just as it was in the discussion that the representative has asked about earlier, about Ursvatnet, where there is also a proposal for voluntary protection and consideration for Brønnø Kalk. There is also a good solution where some of the protection area is taken out to ensure further progress. This is a survey, now we have to figure out where the protection values are, balance business interests, and then decide whether there are areas to go further in terms of protection and detach those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1378	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. So we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1388	This question, from the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, who is directing the issue. The question is raised by the representative Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1395	«The government has developed guidelines and associated guidance for the location of state jobs and the production of government services. Hallingdal has experience, from the management of the courts regarding the future organisation and location of accounting and salary functions, that these guidelines are set aside. Will the Council of State intervene and ensure that the guidelines are followed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1402	The question was originally addressed to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, but I am the right Council of State to answer the question, as this concerns the organisation of certain tasks within the courts. It's a fundamental principle that the courts are independent. In Chapter 1 A of the Law of the Court of Justice, it is its own provision that fully regulates how the Grand Duchy and the Government can govern the courts. The Board of Directors has its reasons for the fact that independence on administrative matters will support the independence of the judiciary. In short, the first conclusion is that, through the examination of the budget proposal, the Storting provides annual guidelines for the activities of the Court of Justice and the administration of the courts, such as: on procedural time requirements. Furthermore, Stortinget may govern the administration of the Court by law, regulation or decision of the plenary session. Secondly, by means of a royal resolution, the government may instruct the administration of the Court of Justice in individual administrative matters. This is a narrow rule of exception and cannot be used as a general and general government authority to review the decisions of the Court of Justice. If the right of instruction is exercised, the Court of Justice shall be given the opportunity to give its opinion in advance. The King may also lay down detailed rules on the activities of the Court of Justice. It is clear that the localisation guidelines have not been adopted in a manner that meets the requirements of the Court of Justice. Obviously, guidelines cannot go ahead of what is determined by law. The point here is therefore not that the guidelines have been set aside in this case but that the guidelines do not apply in the field of the courts. It is therefore clear that this is not a matter that I can or will intervene in. Finally, I would like to add that the Court of Justice has chosen to leave the procedural and material assessment requirements of the Guidelines as an guide to its assessment. In my view, this is a good and pragmatic solution that balances the consideration of the independence of the courts and the state localisation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1415	This is so to speak the answer that the Council of State sent to the Regional Council in Hallingdal on 3 January. Of course, judicial function is independent, but there is also an administrative part of this public institution, in this case accounting and salary functions. That they are also subject to the same requirements for independence, I wonder. It seems that the government may have had a large armshake in areas of a purely political nature. Does the Council of State mean that the guidelines for the location of state workplaces and the production of state services should not apply to any of the activities of the Court of Justice, i.e. the District Courts and the Land Change Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1422	Here, I think it's important that we stick to the laws that, after all, are the Storting that's made. That's why a guideline made in a department cannot override the laws of the Storting. As long as the laws are in place, all the guidelines and decisions we take in the government have to be within the laws that have been given. That's what's the starting point here as well. In the specific case, we consider it this way – and not under such great doubt either – that this is an independence that the courts can manage themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1427	I understand that the Minister of Justice says that the guidelines for the location of state jobs and the production of state services should not apply to the administration of the Court of Justice. The government has reduced a court commission to deal with the organisation of the courts, i.e. the future structure of land change rights and property rights. The setting should be delivered by 11 August 2020, but structural reporting should be delivered as early as October 2019. With the response of the Council of State to my previous question, I cannot understand other than that it cannot be interpreted differently than that the work on the future structure of the courts is exempt from guidelines on the location of state jobs and state service production. We can therefore expect a centralisation of this also public service provision to major Norwegian cities. Is this in line with the government's ambition to move out state workplaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1432	My answer is to the specific case of localisation. As far as the Court Commission is concerned, I will not foreshadow what it makes of proposals, and what the further treatment will be. But it will in any case be that the Storting is the general government. That is the point of this case, namely that when the Stortinget adopts a law, or the Stortinget actually takes any decision, the government has to follow that decision. It's not that we can over-test the Storting through departmental guidelines. It's stuck all the way. But as I said, I do not want to pre-empt the Commission's proposal or deal with it. We have to get back to that when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1437	So we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1445	‘15. On December 2017, the Stortinget unanimously adopted the following: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that information on the bankruptcy quarantine becomes publicly available and to assess whether there is any other information on the offences relevant to the commercial activity that should be made publicly available.’ However, over one year later, the government has not yet followed up the decision. Does the government have an intention to follow up the decision, and when can the Storting expect to have a case brought?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1452	The government is working on this matter, and I have good hope that we will soon be able to send a proposal to the hearing. An amendment to make information in the bankruptcy register more accessible requires an amendment to the bankruptcy register regulation and adaptations to the Brønn Island Health Registers. It is currently required to provide a safe identification for the person subject to the bankruptcy quarantine. This is used to give the birth number, and this is obtained by contacting the population register. It is therefore not such that information on the bankruptcy quarantine is not publicly available today. There are several considerations that are relevant to the assessment of what the rules should be. Of course, it's important that a bankruptcy quarantine works as intended. On the other hand, some privacy considerations apply here. For example, privacy considerations may include: to the effect that a list should not be published on the Internet of all those subject to bankruptcy quarantine. The purpose of the bankruptcy quarantine is to prevent receivers of bankruptcy from participating in new business with limited liability, not to detach people. If you want to open a search by your personal name, it will not give you an accurate identification as a birth number. This may lead to misconceptions as to whether the person you are asking for is really subject to quarantine. But again, this is consideration that we consider, and I have a good hope of soon being able to send a proposal to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1461	Now the government has had a very good time to investigate these things. We have asked and dug various government councils about the follow-up of this, and yet no one has come. But we are responding to proposals and we are going to look at them, with great anticipation. I hear privacy is being brought forward as a challenge here. I would also like to highlight the need for consumer protection that assesses the actors with whom to make agreements, or large public development projects, in order to ensure that the candidates in question have pure flour in the bag. Have the Council of State and the Government of the register on the stairs, if any, assessed offences other than those which result in the acquisition of bankruptcy quarantines, or in other circumstances which may arise, so that consumers and customers can make informed choices as to who they are dealing with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1468	Basically, I don't think we essentially disagree politically on this matter. This is about finding a practical system that balances different considerations. The objective is clear: it is to prevent receivers of bankruptcy from operating freely. In this context, we have not assessed whether other offences should enter the same register. However, the government has recently presented an updated action plan on labour-related crime, and there are a number of issues to be assessed. There are many different registers in the public sector and there may be every reason to consider whether these registers should be more easily shared with the various public authorities. It's a work that we're following up, but it's going in a little bit different than this one with the bankruptcy register.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1475	I fully agree that this is an area where we largely agree on what needs to be done. It is also a unanimous decision in Stortinget that underlies my question, and that is why I am surprised that it has taken so long. We also recognise both privacy considerations and different other considerations that need to be balanced against each other, but this is more than one year of treatment, and it goes too slowly. A challenge that can easily be avoided as a criminal actor is strawman activity, where a company is set up in the name of others, and in this way it will be possible to avoid both such a register that is clearly on the stairs and other methods. Has the Council considered how to effectively stop this type of activity, so that a bankruptcy quarantine can actually be effective, and so that we can protect the Norwegian market from criminal operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1482	Strawmen’s activities are part of what is mentioned in the Action Plan against Crime at Work. As the representative says, it's a challenge, and it's a challenge to set up different companies and string workers that seem to be not sure who you're facing at first. What we need to do is clean up, among other things. in the individual enterprises. That's what you're doing -- it's been deleted a dozen thousand individuals' businesses that we didn't think there was any reason to have them there. We have to run it together with the VAT register, and we also have to run it together with a lot of other registers that, after all, are in the workplace. It is enough here that the different agencies have different information, and in order to succeed in this work, the different agencies – whether Nav, the Labour Inspectorate, the police, the customs service or the tax administration – need to be able to share information better in order to reveal these activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1490	‘The closures of six prisons result in 173 employees losing their jobs. In addition, 430 staff are to be surveyed. This will require substantial funds for conversion. In what way will the Council of State ensure that both the employees and the day-to-day operation of the massive change in criminal law are now facing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1497	The government has given priority to reducing housing queues, and the housing queues are practically gone. The government has also improved the quality of the compensation, among other things. by increasing the use of criminal penalties with electronic control, which allows courts to retain housing and work. The capacity for electronic control has increased from 2014 by 255 places to a total of about 500 places and has reduced the need for lower security prisons. The nationwide extension of the system of fines will also release about 50 prisons. Forecasts from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare show that, in the future, we will have an overcapacity in prison sites with a lower level of security equivalent to 250 places. As far as possible, the resources of criminal services must be used as efficiently as possible, and it is therefore necessary to reduce real space overcapacity. Changeovers are challenging. I recognize that the criminal justice system is facing a demanding process. It is the Directorate of Criminal Welfare that is responsible for implementing the transition. The Directorate has planned and is in the process of implementing the closures in close cooperation with the employees’ organisations. I have been informed by the Directorate of Criminal Welfare that a Party-made migration committee has been set up to advise the Directorate. The Conversion Committee has visited all relevant entities. Several measures have been put in place to ensure both good information in the process and to ensure that as much as possible affected persons can be offered a different position in the criminal justice system. Among other things, all vacancies from November 2018 will be advertised internally. The placing of staff in vacant positions is expected to be completed by Easter. In the context of discussions on the 2019 budget, the Directorate and the staff organisations have also made use of funds for conversion. I trust that the directorate will carry out this conversion in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1506	Here we get an answer about the queues that have gone down, and the use of electronic control. Electronic control can be an excellent tool. It was the Workers' Party that introduced it, but it won't be good if you don't follow up with quality and people in free care. Nevertheless, the Council of State does not answer my question. Throwing the ball over to the directorate may well be plausible, but it doesn't matter how the council sees this transition to be carried out, because the directorate, after all, controls everything on the appropriations given by the right-wing government and into the justice section of the budget. Employees and trust-chosen alerts that there are not enough funds for conversion. They say that it is cut in the daily operation of the prisons that are left. Does not the Council of State have any sense of responsibility towards the employees of its own sector and criminal services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1513	Well, we do, and I recognize that it's a very demanding process, but it's a necessary process. It can't be right to run prisons that we don't need, or, in part, run empty prisons. Then I realize that when one does these things, it's demanding, but it's the Crime Department that's responsible for implementing that transformation, which, after all, has been decided upon in the Storting. It shall take place in close cooperation with the employees’ organisations. Conversion funds have been prioritised in the 2019 budget to achieve this, while other organisational measures are being undertaken, and there are likely to be more proposals from those working on the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1520	Once again, the Council of State does not answer my question. The employee feedback, from the trustees, is precisely that these means of conversion are not sufficient, and the Council of State continues to respond to the fact that reform work is demanding and difficult. That is something we have heard repeatedly in connection with the police reform. What about empty prisons is an argument that the Council of State likes to use. I don't think it results in correctness. No later than Monday, I visited Evje, where the new, beautiful women's prison will open, with both closed and open spaces. There we are at risk of having a completely new, empty prison, because neither employees nor operating resources are available to start up to 1 April. How does the Council of State see this going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1527	Now the representative knows things about the future that I don't know. It's a hypothesis of what's going to happen in the future, which is completely impossible for me to answer. We have adopted a budget. We have adopted a plan for prisons, and we have so far planned to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1537	‘At the time of the signature of the EEA Agreement in 1992, there was a staging of an expanded fish resource cooperation. This extended resource cooperation is not part of the EEA Agreement. However, the EU has access to large-scale fishing quotas in the Norwegian fishing zone, while Norwegian fishermen have been allocated quotas in the EU zone, mostly in the United Kingdom. Will the government require the EU to grant Norway reintroduction of fishing quotas when, after Brexit, we have to negotiate fishing quotas between the United Kingdom and Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1544	In the light of the 1980 Framework Agreement and the 1992 Exchange of Letters, Norway is offering a fishing quota swap with the EU. Together, Norway offers 4.14 pst. of the cod quotas in the Barents Sea against compensation for Norway with real fishing opportunities. The agreement between Norway and Russia agrees on the amount of fish allocated to each of the parties, the so-called third country quota, before the agreed total quota of cod is allocated to national quotas for Norway and Russia respectively. Each party may return to its national allowance the part of such third country allowances that has not been allocated by agreement to other countries. The exchange of quotas between Norway and the EU supports the annual fisheries agreement between Norway and the EU, which also applies to the management of common stocks in the North Sea. We have such quota exchanges with other countries, such as Russia and the Faeroe Islands. The principle stems from the expansion of the economic zone to 200 nautical miles in the 1970s, and the point was that traditional fishing in what would then become the national zone was to continue at a balanced level. This is also reflected in the framework agreement between Norway and the EU. We have concluded an EU-wide quota agreement for 2019, and the allowances are allocated between different EU countries, including the United Kingdom, and different vessels in Norway. We have worked over time to reduce the risk of a vacuum after 29 March this year if the United Kingdom were to leave the EU without an agreement, i.e. a so-called hard brexit. We have also discussed over time how to establish future cooperation between Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom. In this context, the issue of the level of quota shares will also need to be negotiated. This will in part be a question of international law on what obligations we will continue to have towards the EU, including in the light of the exchange of letters from 1992, and on the one hand it will be an issue of appropriateness for what will serve Norwegian interests as a whole. In this round, it wouldn't make sense to go into the details of what will be our positions, which are also not fully established. It is also important that Norway ensures the relationship we have with the European Union today, in the fisheries sector, but also that we work for good cooperation with the United Kingdom. We also need to ensure that we do not get into a situation where other parties start irregular fishing for cod in international waters, such as Norway. The dirt hole. This will be important for us when we go from two to three parties, while at the same time achieving balanced agreements that ensure Norwegian fishing interests from the north to the south. In conclusion, I would like to add that I have been clear in my meetings with my colleagues in both Brussels and London that Norway, in the divorce settlement between the UK and the EU, has no fish to give in order for them to agree. Sharing today's EU quotas must be a matter between them, and they cannot expect us to balance any disagreement between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1559	I thank you for your answer and am very satisfied with the last sentence, because Norway cannot sit back as a loser. The EU also has access to some 21 000 tonnes of Norwegian cod. At the same time, there is a paradox in this, as the cod stock could well be managed bilaterally between Norway and Russia where the cod stock lives in the north and not in EU waters. In Norway, there is a strong desire for larger quotas for coastal fishermen in particular, which have fallen by 17 pst. from 2018 to 2019. How does the Minister for Fisheries intend to ensure that coastal fishermen have greater cod quotas? And: does the decline they have experienced have a bearing on the fact that ships from EU countries have large quotas to fish for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1566	There is no indication in this respect, for this is done through the annual negotiations between countries. The cod quotas in the Barents Sea are primarily a relationship between Norway and Russia related to the stocks that are present. Originally, it was proposed that the stock of Atlantic cod in the Barents Sea should fall by 100 000 tonnes in advance of the negotiations that started. It was reduced by 50,000 tonnes. There is currently a decline in a number of fish stocks, therefore the most important thing we are doing now is to manage resources properly and to ensure that there is a balanced withdrawal between individual stocks. In terms of what we switched from us to the EU, and which we get back from the EU, what comes to Norway has a higher value for us than what we give. In addition, if this is not good enough for Norway and the EU cannot pay through allowances for what they get, it will be returned. This has happened, among other things: this year, the so-called third country quotas, also in order to finance or put in place the overfishing that was in an open group, inter alia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1573	It was claimed at the time of the conclusion of the distribution agreement that he was not negotiated as a separate agreement, because Coast Norway, or the fishermen, was not to go against the EEA Agreement. It was also said that this agreement came because the EU was to grant preferential customs duties on Norwegian fish rot. All the time it's not public information that it includes such a preference duty is the only argument to do good for the agreement to exchange allowances and access other fish species. Otherwise, that agreement should actually be scrapped, as Norway loses access to the largest fishing banks that will then be in the United Kingdom's waters and fishing area. Will the Council of States ensure that the distribution between the EU and the United Kingdom is such that Norway will have the quotas that may not be transferred to the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1580	It's not like we're just fishing in the British sector; we're also fishing in what's called EU-sector different places. That is why we have bilateral agreements with several countries. Norway shares almost all its fishing resources with other countries, different countries based on different species of fish, such as cod and Russia — a very important agreement for Norway. In the Pelagic sector, we are dealing with Norway and the European Union, among others. We have also negotiated with the Faroe Islands and Iceland. All these agreements are important to Norway. As I said in my first speech on the divorce between the United Kingdom and the EU, it is not relevant for Norway to increase our share against this. They'll agree. I have said both in Brussels and in London that I am concerned that the Norwegian quotas are going to be what they are. When it comes to the relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom and the divorce they're going to have, I think most people get to live under stress until March 29 to see what's going to be the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1590	‘The Strait of Moors and Romesdal 110-central has expressed strong concern that the increasing emergency network costs are going to go beyond the means of fire protection in the long term and that the containment means fewer funds for other emergency work, exercises and equipment. Does the Council of State think it is right that the State will now oblige the municipalities to pay large sums to modernise the state-owned emergency network equipment, even though the 110 centres warn that this could be at the expense of local fire protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1597	I interpret the question from the representative Lien to focus on the need for a new mission management tool for the local authorities' 110 centres, as today's Vision system is mature for replacement. This mission management tool is not emergency network equipment, but a technical system that was paid by the state and rolled out at the same time as the emergency network was extended. This was done to ensure that all 110 centres in Norway would have a common mission management tool when emergency networks were put into service. In the context of the deployment of emergency networks, Stortinget decided that the State would cover the full cost of the deployment of emergency networks and the initial investment in the user equipment. At the same time, the size provided for users to cover subsequent reinvestments, operations and management. That's what we're following up on now. Good and modern professional systems for the management of tasks and resources must have all the emergency budgets in place to solve their societal tasks, regardless of whether there is today's emergency networks that carry communications, or – as in the future – the commercial network. The deployment of emergency networks and associated user equipment as well as a joint mission management tool for all 110 centres has been a major boost to local fire preparedness. However, with the technological developments we have today, continuous modernisation and investment in ICT, including in emergency communications, must be foreseen. Under the Fire and Explosion Protection Act, municipalities are responsible for ensuring local fire protection. The 110 centres shall be manned, equipped and operated in such a way as to carry out their duties at all times. A new mission management tool needs to be specified in cooperation between the municipalities and the DSB, i.e. the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. The DSB provides emergency network service and is a competent authority in the field of fire. New professional systems at emergency beds cannot be connected to emergency networks without being safe and stable. The DSB reports that they are in dialogue with all its 14 110 centres on a new subject system, and on 31 January this year a meeting was held between the heads of all 110 centres and the DSB. The KS Company was also present. The background to the meeting was to facilitate good cooperation on a new mission management tool supporting the important emergency tasks of the fire and rescue services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1612	It is the State that owns the equipment, and not only the board of directors of More and Romesdal 110 have reacted to the increased cost burden, but the 110 central banks of Northern and Inland have also expressed concern, very much concern, about these costs. Every 110-central in the country is now asked to set of between 10 and 15 million. kr on funds in 2019 and 2020 to modernise the state-owned user equipment. Will the Council of State then provide a fundamental clarification on who will take the costs and pay for this investment in government emergency services, which will also take into account the warnings of the 110 centres and the consequences of fire preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1619	Municipalities are responsible for manning, equipping and operating the 110 centres to meet the need for the reception and registration of emergency messages, alerting the crew and communication with the response forces and reporting the accident. The requirement is determined by the Fire and Explosive Protection Act. DSB reports that Vision has reached its technical life span and is mature for replacement. A timely mission management tool provides opportunities to strengthen preparedness both locally, regionally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1626	The fire and rescue unit is often the first nightlife in the accident site. Following the PLIVO instruction, the team has to assess whether to intervene in sharp situations if the police have not come forward. There are many changes that are about to happen in the fire and rescue field, but there has been no thorough review of, among other things. the distribution of roles between the police, fire services and health services. The Granavolden Declaration states that the government will review the preparedness capacity of municipalities, including the division of roles between fire services, police and health services. Does the Council of State see the need for a new big message on the fire and rescue situation, and will the Council of State take the warning from the 110 Central Bank into the forthcoming budgetary negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1633	The financing model was decided by Stortinget and has always been that the State should cover the large investments in the infrastructure and the initial investment in the user equipment. This was decided with the representative Lien and the Central Party here at Stortinget. With this emergency network, emergency facilities throughout the country have been provided with modern and good communication equipment containing the new services and functionalities that they did not have in their etat-specific systems. This implies a quality improvement for Norwegian preparedness. Representatives of nuclear users have been involved in the project from the start and user requirements of fire services, police and health services have been leading in the choice of solutions, and thus also in the costs of both investment and subsequent operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1642	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-06.ana.ud339e1656	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
