ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e42	The representatives of Ingarill Olsen, Michael Tetzschner and Ole André Myhrvold, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Mr Tove-Lise Torve, deputy representative of Mr Møre and Mr Romsdal, has requested an exemption from meeting under the mandate of Mr Else-May Botten Norderhus from 5 November until further notice. Other alternates for More and Romsdal, Anne Kristin Bryne, also apply for an exemption from meeting under that permit due to a disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of Mr More and Mr Romsdal, Mr Roger Magne Osen, is hereby called upon to meet during the period of leave from 5 November until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e81	Roger Magne Osen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e92	The representative, Mr Nävra, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e97	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, the pleasure of presenting representative proposals on the regulation of the cruise industry. I am also pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes, Lars Haltbrecken and myself on enhanced animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e104	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e120	Let me first of all thank the Stortinget for the opportunity to explain the matter of misinterpretation and practice of the right to take sickness benefits, redundancy benefits and care allowance when staying in other EEA countries. The error has lasted for many years — both in the administration and in the judicial system — without this being revealed. The error has had major and serious consequences for many people. I want to do what I can to inform the Storting and the public about everything we know about this matter as of now, and get all the facts on the table. Everything is going to come to light. All stones shall be snuffed. Harassment shall be corrected. From the first day I have referred to this as a scandal, and I stand by it. Many people have been wrongfully given a large refund claim from Nav due to the error. Many have also been unjustly reported and prosecuted. Several people have been sentenced to prison or have received other criminal responses. This is very serious. It is serious because people have wrongly had to repay welfare benefits for living, and some have also been convicted on the wrong legal basis. So the social security authorities, the prosecution authority and the courts have based their decisions on a misunderstanding. It is serious because it weakens the confidence of public authorities and the judiciary, and it is serious because it took so many years before the alarm went off. On behalf of the government, I would like to ask the people involved – and their families – for an apology for what they have been exposed to. The State shall settle separately. I want to set up an external independent review committee. The investigation will ensure that all facts come to the table, find the reasons why the error could occur without it being discovered — nor in the ministry — and provide the basis for taking the necessary lessons to avoid such errors occurring in the future. Nav and the prosecution authority are in the process of following up all those who have received an unlawful recovery claim and those who have been found guilty of unlawful punishment. Everyone affected should know that their case will be reviewed and their rights respected. Our welfare arrangements are to be properly practised. In the following statement, I would first like to say something about the inclusion of the EU social security regulation in Norwegian law and how Article 21 of that regulation was understood. Today, I want to focus mainly on the process of inclusion in 2012. However, it is natural that one in further work also assesses practices before 2012. I will then describe some of the issues in the period until 2017. I will then explain in relatively detail the further course of events until 28 October 2019. Finally, I want to brief you on what we're going to do now and forward. I would like to stress that my statement is based on my knowledge of the matter as of today. I cannot go into the role of the prosecution authority and the courts in this case, nor on how to follow up the criminal convictions. However, I would like to refer to the Riksadvokat's notified review. When Norway joined the EEA in 1994, the social security coordination was regulated by Regulation 1408/71. In 1998, the European Commission presented proposals for a new social security regulation, today known as Regulation 883/2004. The Council and the European Parliament adopted the new Regulation in 2004. However, it did not have an effect on the EEA countries until eight years later, i.e. in 2012. In line with the EEA procedures, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs – in consultation with the departments concerned – prepared a so-called EEA note, which provides a brief explanation of the content of new Regulations. The note was submitted to the Social Security Special Committee — an interministerial body chaired by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where the Directorate of Labour and Welfare participates with the departments concerned. The Regulation contained inter alia: adjustments allowing greater access to include short-term benefits in the case of sickness while staying abroad. This adjustment was not specifically mentioned in the EEA note of 2011. The note addressed three changes, which entail entirely new rights and obligations: Firstly, it was extended to persons who have not been economically active. Secondly, social security coordination was extended to include specific early retirement schemes. Thirdly, the coordination of unemployment benefits was extended to self-employed persons. The Social Security Special Committee concluded that the Regulation was EEA-relevant and acceptable. As you know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs keeps the European Committee of the European Communities continuously informed on EEA matters. The EEA note on the new Regulation was submitted to the European Committee before the meeting of the EEA Committee on 1 July 2011, where the formal decision was taken. Delegations from the EEA and EFTA countries and representatives of the European Commission participate in the EEA Committee. Today’s Social Security Regulation 883/2004 was incorporated into Norwegian law with effect for Norway from 1 June 2012 through the Royal Resolution of 22 June 2012. The new regulation was incorporated in a way similar to that of the previous regulation in 1994. The Ordinance shall derogate from the People's Security Act to the extent necessary under the Social Security Regulation. Nav participated in all parts of the process in the same line as the ministry. I assume that the review will also look at how the regulation was incorporated. Access to sickness benefits and other sickness cash benefits in other EEA countries is governed by Article 21 of the Social Security Regulation. The provision reads as follows: ‘A member of the social security system and his/her family living or residing in a Member State other than the competent Member State shall be entitled to cash benefits from the competent institution in accordance with the law which it applies.’; It is important to note that the Social Security Regulation does not impose a general obligation on Norway to amend the Social Security Act. Norway is free to have its own restrictions on access to social security benefits abroad, which apply in full to persons living or staying in non-EEA countries. But for people living or staying in the EEA, the Social Security Regulation is therefore in front of the Social Security Act. However, there is still the possibility to impose activity requirements. I will now present some main features of the dialogue between the Department and the Directorate for Inclusion. The Ministry sent a letter to the Directorate on 11 May 2009 on the implementation of EU Regulation No. 883/2004, mainly on administrative preparations for the forthcoming inclusion. This was followed up in the letters of allocation in the following year. The Ministry formally briefed the Directorate of Labour and Welfare on the date of entry into force of the Regulation for Norway by letter of 23 May 2012. This was also followed up in the 2013 allocation letter. It was informed that there were some changes to the Regulation and the Directorate was asked to give priority to the preparation of the transition to a new Regulation, including training measures and the preparation of guidance and procedures. This results from the directorate’s responsibility for interpreting, managing and implementing laws within its area of competence. This role is formalised in a separate instruction on business and financial management. There is no established practice or procedure for the Ministry to approve the etate circular. It was not in 2012. Nav’s circular was updated as a result of the new Social Security Regulation. It has always been clear that Article 21 applies to persons residing in other EEA countries and in some other cases. On the basis of the current legal assessment, an incorrect understanding of Article 21 was adopted in 2012 at the time. It was not applied to persons who live and work in Norway but who stay for a period of time in another EEA country. That is to say, Nav has argued that only the provisions of the People's Security Act apply in these cases. Exports of social security benefits have been on the political agenda for many years. I would therefore also like to say something about the government's work on this. The then government dropped the Brochmann Committee in 2009, which in 2011 made its investigation of how our welfare systems are affected by migration flows. In its wake, the challenges associated with social security exports were raised in public vocabulary. The current government has been working out in the light of the social security export framework. On this basis, we presented a big message in 2017. In this Communication, and in the internal preparations, attention was mainly focused on the payment of social security benefits to residents of the rest of the world — i.e. against social security exports in their actual sense and not against persons residing in Norway but residing temporarily abroad. However, the Communication clarified the primacy of the Regulation. I also record that some people are bringing forward the department's dialogue with ESA during this period, and among other things. a case from 2015 concerning the export of redundancy payments to Sweden. I would like to stress that the matter was about a different matter from the one that has now been discovered. ESA did not go further, after receiving the ministry's statement, on that matter. A matter of daily allowances has also been mentioned. This matter concerned the rules on which country to pay day-to-day benefits to fully available frontier workers and was an interpretation of the old Social Security Regulation. ESA has stated that this interpretation cannot be used for the interpretation of the new Social Security Regulation. The right to social security is an independent, just-like management body, which is to decide on the rights and obligations of individuals under the Swedish Social Security Act and a number of other pension and social security contributions. In a letter dated 28 October 2019, the Social Security Court stated that from June 2017 to March 2018 several rulings were made referring to the reassessment of Nav’s refusals due to a lack of or incorrect assessment of Article 21. The right to social security considers that their practices were established during that period. At the same time, the Social Security Court states that before this period, practices may have been fragile. Under the social security law, the court may be seised of five members where the decision of the court may be the decisive factor in a matter of law. As I have so far understood the matter, the Social Security Court has established its practice without such a five-member report, but instead through several individual rulings. I now want to describe how Nav handled the first signals from the Social Security Court about wrong practices. The Nav Board of Appeal deals with complaints and appeals in the social security areas of the establishment. The Board of Appeal briefed the Executive Board in a letter dated 29 November 2017 that the Social Security Court had referred a case to a review and asked questions about the etate’s circular and the meaning of the EEA Regulation. The Board of Appeal also pointed out that the practices of the Social Security Court were fragmented. In February 2018, the directorate Nav asked the Board of Appeal to investigate the issue in more detail. From February 2018 an investigation work was carried out internally in Nav on this subject. On 19 November 2018, the General Court wrote to one of the Nav Boards of Appeal and informed that the court had decided to refer the matter to the EFTA Court. The right to social security indicated that neither the seat of employment nor the place of welfare nor the Board of Appeal had taken over the practices of the Social Security Court. That deadline was first set at 31 January and later suspended until 22 February 2019. I will now go through the development after the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs became familiar with the matter. The Ministry received an informal enquiry from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare on 27 November 2018 stating that the Court of Social Security decided to refer the question of the Social Security Regulation Article 21 to the EFTA Court. The Directorate then sent a letter to the Department on 20 December 2018. In the letter, the directorate stated that they considered the legislation unclear and wanted to discuss the matter with the department. For the time being, the Board of Appeal had called into question the complaints received concerning these questions. I have later been informed that these complaints were raised on 18 December 2018. The Ministry asked at its meeting on 18 January 2019 and then, in a letter dated 24 January, the Directorate to – as soon as possible – explain the ethos practice and assess whether its understanding of Article 21 was in line with the Regulation. This was done in a letter to the Ministry of 24 January 2019. The Directorate’s assessment was that Article 21 was also applicable to short-stay stays, which was then the theme, and that it was therefore not possible to stop or refuse cash benefits only on the basis of stays in another EEA country. However, it was noted that the stay has to be compatible with the implementation of the established activity and cannot prevent the follow-up and control of the establishment. The Directorate indicated that there was no guarantee of how many cases would be covered by the change, but assumed that the change would only affect decisions in matters of short stay abroad and where the activity obligation was fulfilled. On this basis, the Directorate assumed that this would have neither significant economic nor administrative implications. In an e-mail of 22 February 2019, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs agreed to a conversion, i.e. Article 21 also applies to short-stay stays, and this was confirmed in a letter of 5 March 2019. It was clarified that a cash benefit could not be stopped or refused simply because the person was living in another EEA country. The Ministry has been informed that Nav control, which detects and reports social security fraud, asked all cases with several short stays in lieu of 25 February 2019. Nav work and benefits instructed their units on new practices on 14 March 2019 and asked them to suspend recovery cases. The last report from Nav verkontrol was sent to the prosecution authority on 23 April 2019. This review only became known to the Ministry on 25 October 2019. The Directorate informed the Department in a letter dated 21 June 2019 that they would ask all the Nav offices to change their practice. This was done on 22 June 2019. I have now explained the contact the department had with the directorate before the summer of 2019 about short stays – stay of a few weeks – which was the problem that had been raised then. I will now explain when the department was made aware that the matter was much more serious and included what we now understand as a long stay, i.e. with a longer duration abroad. The Directorate addressed the Ministry in e-mails of Friday 30 August and Monday 2 September 2019 and stated that in the internal dialogue in Nav, Article 21 had also not been assessed for temporary stays abroad in addition to short-term stays. The directorate wrote that there was a great risk that there were several people who had received some major cases of detention and false convictions against them. At the same time, the directorate pointed out that this was something they had not informed the ministry of before. So, as far as I know, this is the first time the department is familiar with the case that there could be convictions due to the incorrect application of law – and not just in Nav. The Directorate wanted a meeting with the Ministry as soon as possible, as the issue could affect a larger number of cases and with greater implications than previously assumed. This was about things reported to the police. The first meeting on the matter between the department and the directorate took place on Friday 13 September. In the meeting, the directorate explained the status and issues of the case, also in addition to the information that had previously been sent. Furthermore, the directorate raised questions and expressed doubts about the existence of a legal application error. However, they would request from the Public Prosecutor's Office as soon as possible that pending cases be brought to an end. The last case went to court on 16 September 2019. Between 17 and 19 September, the Directorate sent a letter to the police departments requesting that the cases be brought before them, but that had not yet been brought before the courts. On 26 September, after I was informed, there was informal contact between Nav Kontrol and the National Attorney's Office on the matter. In the context of the Directorate’s work on clarifying the correct understanding of Article 21 of the Social Security Regulation, three additional meetings were held between the Department and the Directorate on the case, 18 October, 22 October and 25 October. The last meeting was between Sigrun Vågeng and me. Based on a new legal review dated 27 October 2019, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare concluded that the previous legal application of residence in an EEA country has not been correct, regardless of the length of the stay. In cases covered by the EEA Regulation, the requirement in the People’s Security Act to stay in Norway must be understood as staying in Norway or in another EEA country. The other conditions under which the benefits are provided must still be met. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare provisionally estimates that the incorrect practice of the EU social security regulation Article 21 applies to about 2400 cases where money has been recovered. At present, the Directorate does not have an overview of the number of cases in which applications for benefits have been unlawfully refused on the grounds of residence in an EEA country. The most serious thing in this case is that after 2012, Nav notified more than 100 people for social security fraud for providing incorrect information. As far as I know now, the courts have ruled in about 50 cases, but this number can increase. It seems that 36 people have been penalised unconditionally or have been sentenced to prison. Many 50 reviews were postponed after sending the letters to the police departments in September 2019. It is obvious that the matter has had a major impact on all those affected. The matter is serious. When the department became aware of the seriousness, Nav assured us that these matters were put on hold, and the prosecution authority was notified. At the same time, a new legal assessment was launched to clarify whether public authorities had actually failed to comply with Norwegian law. At the same time, there was a job in Nav to get a better overview of the scope of the case. Why the interpretation of Article 21 – as far as we can see – has not been problematic so that the error has been picked up, is something I hope the review will give us an answer. It was almost not to believe that this could be a system failure even beyond Nav. Now that we've got the complex into the light, it's easy to see that more questions should have been raised – from more teams – a long time ago. Many have, after the case was known, rightly asked the questions: How has such a serious error in understanding the social security regulation been possible? Why has the error not been captured – and then in its full width – before? Several institutions and procedures are in place to ensure that just such errors do not occur and, if they do, they must be captured. In retrospect: It took a long time for the system to capture this error. That is why it is important that all the agencies and actors involved — my own department and myself included — now do what we can to help get the answers on the table. I am concerned that the State will clean up and settle matters against those who are unjustly punished, or who have received an unlawful claim for a refund or otherwise have not received what they are entitled to. Several instances are now carrying out a full review of the cases. I would first like to say something about the work that has been started to clear up the mistakes that have been made. Then I want to say something about how we're going to ensure that practice in the future is right in this area. I would also like to say something about some other matters that I think it is necessary to assess. The Directorate has set up a Task Force which is now reviewing all previous issues back to 2012. Priority may be given to cases where the misunderstanding of the social security regulation may have been essential to the refusal, suspension or recovery of benefits. It is necessary to reconsider each case. It is also necessary to assess whether the other conditions for receiving or retaining the benefit were met, such as the obligation to carry out activities and contracts with health professionals, Nav and the employer. There is still a significant uncertainty about the number of persons covered and it is premature to say something more about who will be entitled to social security benefits or compensation for wrongful repayment claims. The outcome of the review of the individual case could be full refurbishment, partial refurbishment or maintenance. The error may also have an impact on other conditions. This is a comprehensive work that will take some time. Nav employees are now doing a great job cleaning up and have started contacting them. Information on where to contact if you think you are affected by the error has been posted on Nav’s websites. Those who have unlawfully paid back will be paid the benefit they are entitled to. So these things are going to be dealt with by Nav. The government will create a free legal aid system for those who want to appeal to Nav's new decision. The Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the system of free legal assistance, will, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, examine how this legal aid can be provided. The Government will also establish a free legal aid system for persons who file claims as a result of the incorrect interpretation of EEA law. The Government considers the establishment of a separate compensation scheme to ensure that those affected are dealt with as easily and as quickly as possible. The Government will consider in detail which body, if any, will administer such a scheme and its framework. The Advocate General has informed us that he is in contact with the Resumption Commission and with the Public Prosecutor's Office on follow-up to those who have been punished on the basis of misunderstanding of the law. The recovery Commission may provide guidance to the person wishing to reopen a criminal case and may also appoint a public defender. In addition to cleaning up the mistakes that have been made, it is essential that the Labour and Welfare Unit should deal with all cases in time according to new practices. Future practice must also make it clear that although the establishment cannot stop or refuse sick pay, redundancy benefits and care only because the user is resident in another EEA country, the user must continue to follow up all obligations relating to the receipt of the benefit. In other words, the change does not mean that it is free to take it out of the country. The Ministry has asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to report separately on the follow-up to the case. The reporting shall include the following elements: how the directorate will handle these matters further – I have asked for a plan for dealing with past and ongoing issues, especially with the affected how the directorate will ensure that proper practice is made clear and implemented in the establishment It's an important task for Nav to go through all the issues where it might have been made a mistake. I will follow the development and scope of the work. There is, of course, also a possible need for additional funds, as is the case with the Social Security Court. The government intends to make a proposal on Friday. In addition, I have asked the Employment and Welfare Directorate for a thorough explanation of how they work with EEA regulations. I have asked for an assessment of the authority's competence to ensure that practices are in line with the legislation. It is essential that the application of social security law is in line with Norway’s EEA obligations. The Ministry will consider whether a quality assurance mechanism should be established to ensure the necessary overview of legal developments in the EU and in the EEA territory. The establishment of such a mechanism will be carried out in the event of close cooperation between, inter alia, the Member States. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Directorate of Labour and Welfare, Social Security, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Attorney General. In this respect, the Ministry will also look at its own competences. Although the regulation has been incorporated into Norwegian law, this case has shown that the legislation has not been available enough. Social security legislation should provide better guidance, both to members of the public interest and to professional actors. I have therefore already asked the department to start looking at how this best can be solved. Sickness benefits and redundancy benefits shall ensure income for persons undergoing investigation, treatment and job-oriented measures with a view to retaining or obtaining employment. This new practice is likely to lead to more people staying for shorter or longer periods outside Norway while receiving these benefits. Good follow-up of recipients is important in order to contribute to the shortest possible period of social benefits and to ensure the legitimacy of our welfare systems. The fact that a recipient is abroad can present practical challenges for good and close follow-up. I would therefore like to assess whether the rules of the Swedish Social Security Act should be adjusted or whether there is a need for other changes in order to ensure an equal level of follow-up and close follow-up of all those who receive sickness benefits and redundancy benefits, irrespective of where in the EEA territory they are located. We must be able to trust that the legislation in our welfare systems is being properly practised. For me, it is important that we get an open and good review of the matter. Because of the seriousness of the matter, I would like to ask an external sample to investigate how an error interpretation could have occurred and been continued for such a long time – both in social security administration and in criminal proceedings. It would be natural to go back to the incorporation of the Regulation in 2012, but it would also be natural to assess practices before 2012. In addition, it would be natural for a review of the treatment in the labour and welfare settings and in the Ministry of Social Security to make the first ruling contrary to Nav’s interpretation. The review will be able to look at both the interpretation and practice of the establishment and the work of the Ministry on the inclusion of the regulation in 2012 and its follow-up. In such an external review I would like to provide the documentation and the assessments I have on the matter. I want to emphasise that the external review also provides a basis for learning, so that we get good suggestions for any improvements in incorporating and implementing EEA legislation and other learning points. The work is extensive and complicated. However, I assume that we need to get started quickly in order to achieve this in the first half of 2020. In parallel with this review, the labour and welfare director has therefore asked the internal audit of Nav to draw up a report on the follow-up of the ETA to the Regulation, in order to obtain assessments that can provide a basis for improvements that can be implemented relatively quickly. My statement here today is based on what we so far have an overview of the matter. I cannot rule out that there will be more facts and new questions on the table – among others. as a result of the investigation – about the matters I have explained. However, I want to make sure that the State will settle against those who are innocently prosecuted and convicted, against those who have had to pay back benefits they had the right to receive, and against those who have not otherwise received what they are entitled to. Everyone involved will be contacted by Nav. In the last few days, several of those who have been hit have told their story and given the matter a face. The stories make a strong impression on most of us, including me. Those affected have been subjected to serious errors on the part of the social security administration, the prosecution authority and the courts. We've heard how convictions seriously affect people's lives. To those who have been hit, I'd like to apologize again. Now we're going to clean up. We need to learn from this case in order to prevent anything similar from happening again. I cannot stress enough how important it is that we learn from this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e260	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e265	I thank the Council of State for the presentation. What we're hearing here is a Norwegian legal scandal. People are convicted, imprisoned and branded as frauds because of a legal interpretation that does not comply with Norwegian law. Many people have been financially and personally destroyed because the state was wrong. It's very serious for the people involved, and it's very serious for the Norwegian community. We have to be able to trust that the rule of law works, that no one is judged without law, that Norwegian law is consistent with our international obligations, and that it is equal to the law. Now it has to be cleaned up, and what we can do now, we have to do now. The first thing that has to happen, and it has to happen without delay, is that Nav repays the money that has been wrongly withdrawn. Those who are unjustly convicted and deprived of money cannot wait for investigations, investigations, bureaucracy and long political processes. Sick, often vulnerable, people who have lost their strength to fight for their own rights are being reviled. They can't afford to borrow money from the state. Many people may have had to sell houses and homes to pay back money that should have been theirs. The other thing that must happen, even without delay, is that the courts must quickly acquit those who have been wrongly convicted. Free legal assistance must be provided to those affected. So, when this is done, we have to figure out how that could happen. Then we have to use the time that is needed to figure out how it could go so wrong. The Workers' Party believes that this matter should be addressed to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinget. It raises clear questions of political responsibility. We believe that a review should be carried out that provides answers, and it should go as far back as necessary. In this case, all stones shall be swirled, irrespective of which batches have had government power at what time. It is discouraging – and likely – that it has failed in all the state powers: in government, at large and in the courts. Then this case concerns Nav – the etat's practice and interpretation of laws and regulations and the obligations arising from the EEA Agreement. Governments have answered some questions, but there are several. What makes Nav unresponsive to social security when it sends nine cases back to Nav in the period 2017-2018? Why didn't Nav take over the judgments that came into the court system, and charged them further to ensure that the correct application of law, in their opinion, was used? And how can Nav just think that the court's legal application is not right, and then continue as before? This is Nav's responsibility, and political responsibility lies with the Minister of Labour. Part of the rapid and immediate review and possible examination must clarify why the warning lights did not light earlier. And when they first started to light up, what did they politically responsible do? In 2017, the government presented a paper on the export of Norwegian welfare benefits. It was clearly stated here that the space for action is limited and that the regulation based on EEA legislation is trombling Norwegian law. Now we need to get an answer as to why it was not checked whether this was actually in line with practice – when it is established in this way in the message. We have to ask ourselves how such work on social security exports could be started without involving Nav and without reviewing their practice and interpretation. When we listen to the Council of State, it seems that the department has been passively receiving distress signals from Nav for many months, but why didn't the alarm signals lead to activity from the department to clarify the matter? This must be answered by the councillor Hauglie and the government, because even if the error was not discovered earlier, it should have been discovered at least then. We also want a response from the Council of State as to why she did not ensure that the pending matters were stopped immediately when the error was discovered. It appears that it may have taken up to 10 months from the state council to get a warning about Nav’s errors, until it was publicly known – and in the meantime, several were convicted. This is what is at the heart of the matter, as the Council of State said: that Nav has not complied with Norwegian law. Now, those who have suffered injustice must be reviled. We need to assess the question of responsibility, and we need to get a clear answer to the questions asked by Stortinget. The Storting can handle it. We have procedures for that. It has to happen quickly to those who are hit, and then we have to take the time we need to figure out what has happened, learn and avoid such a scandal happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e290	There is no doubt that the Nav scandal shows a fundamental failure at several levels of the social security system and the judicial system over many years. The consequences for individuals are serious, and the confidence of our main institutions is weakened. I am pleased that the Council of State on its own initiative asked to be briefed on the Storting, and that the primary focus now is to correct an injustice that has affected so many. But I guess that should just be missing. It is now correct and important that all cases are reviewed, that the government ensures free legal assistance to those affected, and that an external investigation is carried out. Those who have been convicted on a false basis shall be brought to justice and the State shall settle itself. Nav may have one of the finest purpose paragraphs in Norway, which says that they should contribute to social and economic security and promote transition to work and active participation in society. We have to remember that Nav provides services to 2.8 million people every year and follows us from birth money to retirement. Staff in Nav should be proud of the job they do, and it seemed they have. Nav's purpose paragraph actually summarises the welfare state as intended, and as we like to see Norway. This last week has rocked our understanding of ourselves, and to be completely honest -- it might as well be. In fact, the Social Security Court and Nav have followed up the laws and regulations that have been passed in Stortinget, which have been an expression of the will of the majority of the population. So it's the EEA regulations that absolve the many people who turn out to be unjustly convicted. When the new Social Security Regulation came into force in June 2012, it was established that it would not have legal consequences for Norwegian law. This seems to have given rise to some accompanying errors, with the serious consequences we are now seeing. It will be too easy to limit the timeline of the case from 2017 to today, even if the Council of State made a good presentation. The EEA Agreement is not really that difficult. It has expanded our space of action and built down barriers to participate in the internal market. When we discuss the EEA, I have primarily thought about the possibility for workers to apply for a job in another country without losing their social rights. This, I believe, is a positive condition for the free movement of labour. I have to admit that I have had a blind zone against the fact that the right to free movement also applies to the right of a sick person to travel freely in the EEA territory. The EEA Agreement guarantees social rights for workers in order to facilitate free movement and opportunities for jobs where jobs are available. It is fully possible to combine the intentions of the EEA Agreement with the simultaneous use of our national space of action. Norway has the opportunity to develop its welfare policy in order to achieve the objectives expressed in Nav’s purpose paragraph. The introduction of residence requirements for entitlement to cash support is an example of this. The same applies to activity requirements in relation to other benefits. The dilemma in the welfare state is to ensure decent income for those who need it, while at the same time developing welfare systems so that working always pays off. In order to ensure the legitimacy of our common well-being, the community must be able to make demands, but also make demands – and it does the community. Of course, when employers have an obligation to facilitate sick pay for their employees, this presupposes that the employee is in the country to cooperate in this respect. A general rule that sick people should stay in the country is therefore a good rule, but we must ensure that it does not violate EEA law. Now we have the opportunity not only to correct a mistake that has been made since 2012 – perhaps before – but also the injustice that many people have suffered. This also allows us to review benefits and arrangements to ensure that they are up-to-date and work properly – not because the EEA Agreement requires it, but because it is the most decent thing to do. The Ministry drew the emergency brake when it was clear that Nav's practice deviated from our actual rights as EEA citizens. First, there were short-stay cases, where practices were changed rapidly, then the long-term and more serious cases, which were assessed in September. As the Council of State has explained, there are several people who are now working on a bomb to get a full overview of what has happened. Nav has set up a separate task force for a full review of issues that may have been mistreated. Policy has been changed for current and future issues. We also need to know why independent bodies, such as the prosecution authorities and the courts, do not seem to have worked in these cases either. There have obviously been several failures — failures that have had serious consequences for individuals. For many, this case has been a heavy burden over a long time, and they deserve a quick process. The State Attorney's Office is now in contact with the Resumption Commission and the Public Prosecutor's Office. But even if this has to happen quickly, it has to be done properly. Of course, the right will help to get to the bottom of how this could happen. Only by learning from these mistakes can we make sure that something similar happens again. After all, it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e315	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. The most important task of a country is to ensure the security and freedom of its citizens. A country governed by the law which Norway is required to ensure that it is treated fairly and equally under the law. A prerequisite for this is a rule of law in which everyone must be safe to be treated equally under the law. But in this case, it has been revealed that it is not only Nav who has made serious errors and interpreted the law incorrectly. Public prosecutors, defenders and courts have also failed. The latter have for a long time unilaterally used Nav’s interpretations without questioning the understanding of the law. They have failed, and that is unacceptable. We may disagree and have debates on what law to have, whether we are in favour of or against different EU regulations, but people must be treated and judged according to what is at all times the law in force. It is therefore unfortunate when individual legislators are to share moral guilt and innocence. We are talking here about people who are innocently convicted. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State so clearly underlines the serious failure and ensures that we now have a thorough and external investigation. We need to understand what has happened, how this could happen, why the errors have not been discovered before, and to find out whether the actors acted correctly and quickly enough when the error was discovered – in short, everything needs to be examined. Something is already obvious, and it is that this error was first committed a long time ago. In 2012, the incorrect interpretation was made. Several have indicated that similar misinterpretations have been made back to the conclusion of the EEA Agreement in 1994. The fact that the last interpretation occurred back in 2012 is no comfort to those who are now affected, but it underlines that several have made serious mistakes, serious mistakes, with serious consequences. In Norway, we initially have open political processes, which ensure that the widest possible views and assessments are expressed through consultations before a decision is taken. There is an important security mechanism that allows errors and misunderstandings to be detected. When the amendment to the Regulation was being examined in 2012, it was strangely chosen to drop the consultation, and it was then concluded without seeking views that might have revealed the serious consequences of this Regulation and its impact. That's something the review also has to look at. The clearing job is extensive and will necessarily take time. The main objective and the acute now, as far as possible, is to settle the injustice to which several have been subjected from the public. It must happen quickly and thoroughly, which I am pleased that the government is adding up to. Secondly, we need to look at how we can avoid the obviously very unfortunate aspects of this EU regulation. The Contracting Party has long wanted to renegotiate parts of the EEA Agreement. The question of social security raises questions as to whether it is a good idea to stay outside Norway when you receive temporary benefits. The benefits are closely compared to many other countries, making it very attractive to bring the money to their home country and avoid follow-up. Not later than last year, the size expressed unanimously, among other things. to adjust benefits in purchasing power when they are included in the EU, precisely because it is perceived as unreasonable that benefits, provided on the basis of a Norwegian cost level, should be able to be provided to someone such as the United Kingdom. are in Lithuania. But this case is a multi-level scandal. Among other things, we must: also look at how the court has handled these matters. The automatic use of public interpretation of a regulatory framework in matters where the public is the counterpart of individuals is frightening. It is at the heart of the very principle of the distribution of power that the courts and the judiciary, the judiciary, have provided this basis for making independent judgements of the executive. We cannot accept that the EU is taking over Norwegian welfare benefits or the will of the Storting. If we are to maintain our generous welfare benefits, we depend on them being restricted primarily to Norwegian citizens and others who live and work in Norway. Finally, on 30 August, Nav wrote a letter to the Department, saying: ‘We believe that, as a starting point, we are not obliged to recover on our own initiative matters that we do not have concrete knowledge of.’ [[...]] That Nav writes like this when we've got such a scandal, makes us have to ask questions about Nav's current management is they're right to lead Nav in the important cleanup work that's in progress in parallel with the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e350	We're facing a legal scandal in Nav. Riksadvokat Tor-Aksel Busch intervenes. The scandal is presented at a press conference on Monday 28 October, attended by the Council of State, the Nav Director and the National Attorney General. During the press conference, the national lawyer says that the matter is missing in Norwegian legal history. The matter is so serious that people are even convicted, and have done so, prison sentences on the wrong legal basis. It seems clear that, at least since 2012, both Nav, Public Prosecutor’s Office and courts have been practicing law and regulation errors. The center party takes the matter very seriously. The people affected by the legal scandal must be given full retribution. As the case now stands, there is an open question as to whether not the entire period from 1 January 1994 until the current date has to be reviewed. As far as we have an overview now, the case concerns the payment of temporary social security benefits – sickness benefits, redundancy benefits and care allowances – to people who have been out of Norway for a longer or shorter time but who are in the EEA territory. Key issues that need to be resolved are how this could happen, who is responsible, and who is the constitutional responsibility of the relevant State Councils. The government submitted its Report. St. 40 for 2016–2017, Exports of Norwegian welfare benefits, 16 June 2017. As rapporteur, I presented Innst. 108 S for 2017-2018 6 February 2018. The debate in the Chamber was 1 March 2018. In the big message, the government writes under Chapter 2: ‘It is important to be aware that the provisions of the international agreements intervene in national law and go ahead if there is a contradiction between the two sets of rules.’;» However, when I wanted to establish this in the setting as rapporteur, there was only a minority comment with support from SV. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Left were unable to support the following: ‘... indicates that the provisions of the international agreements intervene in national law and even go ahead if there is a conflict between the two sets of rules’.» This despite the fact that the Council of State, after two written questions from the President-in-Office, finally confirmed the quotation from the Storing Message. In the debate I therefore said: ‘However, what is quite special is that the government parties could not sign on this fact. It is a weakness.» Yes, it was a weakness. This weakness is at the heart of the legal scandal. This also shows some of the cross-pressed Councils of State after the deliberations, when the majority of the Committee could not conclude on the logic of the EEA Agreement. The requirement to reduce social security benefits was so strong that these lots continued to tone down that it was contrary to the EEA Agreement. Furthermore, the Committee was not briefed by the Council of State on the decisions taken by the social security system between June 2017 and March 2018, which showed that Nav had a wrong legal understanding. This is alarming. The Central Party believes today that the matter should be further dealt with within the framework of the mandates of the Grand Duchy and the Government. The Central Party therefore calls for a special committee in Stortinget to now deal with uprisings for those affected by the legal scandal, clarifying responsibilities and who have constitutional responsibility for the judicial scandal. Furthermore, in the light of a government proposal, the Labour and Social Committee must consider the necessary changes to the legislative and regulatory framework to be applied in the future. The scandal has shown that the requirements imposed must be the same for all — both those who are staying in Norway and those who are staying in an EEA country. The scandal relates to temporary benefits that give rights and obligations. Benefits shall provide a basis for a decent life in Norway and are therefore among the best in the EEA territory. The benefits require some of the individual beneficiary and require – I stress – that the public ensure compliance with the obligations, i.e. rights and obligations. The scandal shows that we need to clarify social security obligations, which require closer and better follow-up — closer and better follow-up from Nav. The entire Nav organisational model needs to be reviewed in order to ensure that rights and obligations are realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e385	I would like to thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for the presentation. I thought it was tidy, and she made a proper and important apology on behalf of the state. At the same time, there are a number of unanswered questions left. We have been told a lot about what has happened, but important questions about how and why remains. We're in the middle of a legal security scandal of historical dimensions. The stories of the people who are affected make a deep impression on us. It's the story of the woman who didn't get to travel out of the country to visit her dying sister. It is the story of his grandfather who kept away from his grandchildren that he had to go to prison. It is the story of people who have come to Norway to work and have health problems for the rest of their lives as a result of the efforts they have made here with us, and on top of that, someone has got a false conviction for social security fraud and large repayment claims. It is the story of people with mental illness that has been added to the burden of wrongful punishment. It's done wrong, and the most important task for us in this room now is not first to find out who is responsible for it being like that, but first to put in place a plan of justice and upliftment. Justice and retribution are our shared responsibility. I tend to say that the most beautiful thing about Norway is not fjords and mountains, but small differences and strong communities. But this case shows another side of our country. The worst thing about the scandal is the stench of class light that follows some sides of it. We have seen judicial murders and unjust claims with economic crisis as a result that are ongoing without anyone having discovered it. It raises an unpleasant question: could this happen to another group in our society than the Nav users? Could it have happened to those who have the most money and access to the best legal advice, e.g.? So now we have to ask ourselves not only the detailed questions how, when, who and what, but also why. One of the answers I'm afraid lies in the culture of distrust that has been created for many years against people who are dependent on social security and social welfare, in the political debate, and in the way Nav is led, where fear that someone will get more than they need has become more than fear that someone will not get the help they need. This is a disaster for many individuals, but it is also a systemic crisis, a crisis in which we have to clean up. We still have a lot of unanswered questions, and I would say that is natural, given the scope of the matter. We need to get more information, and the Stortinget now has a great responsibility to contribute to facts coming on the table. SV wants to get started quickly on the committee work. We also believe that this should be done primarily in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We have a wide range of questions for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but also for the Minister of Justice. We need to know why it took so long before Nav reacted to the Social Security Court's first signals of incorrect application of the law, and we need to know why it took so long from notice of this coming to the Department, to the Stortinget and the public to be informed. In this presentation, there was new information, but there are a lot of questions that we still need to get answers to in order to find out what happened, why and who is responsible. In that process, we have to look both at the ministry's handling after December last year, Nav's handling after 2017 and, of course, go all the way back to the time when this error occurred, whether it was in 2012 or earlier, in order to clarify how it could happen, and how we can avoid something like that happening again. The councils have declared that she wants an external investigation. We believe this matter is too serious for us to settle down with an investigation initiated by the government alone. Both the scope of the case, its unique character and the fact that an investigation will also have to look at the handling of the department require that the Stortinget be involved, either by the Stortinget setting down a commission, or that the work is done in close dialogue with the opposition. Legal certainty cannot be a class issue. Legal certainty must apply to all, and that is what is essential in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e400	On behalf of the Left, I start with a sincere and clear reason for all those who are exposed to the greatest collective system failure in Norway over the years. In this case,'scandals' is a word of mouth, and I am very pleased that the Council of State is so clear that everyone is now receiving the necessary legal assistance, and that everyone who has been subjected to the wrong proceedings and/or the murder of the judiciary is not only being reviled, but also receiving financial compensation. So thank you to the Council of State for a thorough arrangement, a humble attitude and action. The Nav scandal is a serious breach from the system side, from the community, against individuals who are in many cases sick and vulnerable – totally unimaginable. The hub of the welfare community, Nav, has systematically and extensively failed people they're there to help. There's a system arrogance of dimensions that we've taken from people's freedom. We can't have it like that. We at Stortinget have the responsibility for that. So we have to work together, as SV also ordered, to clean up the lot and the lot color. The European project is about freedom from war, poverty and outreach and freedom to trade and live together. The EEA is far more than a trade agreement. Every day of all European citizens, including us who live on the outer edge, is now closely integrated. We travel and study, and we have a common labour market, we have a community across borders, we link bonds, friendships and love relationships. For social liberals, it is absolutely fundamental that people who for a shorter or longer period depend on Nav's support should have the same freedom to benefit from the European Community as others can. As social security recipients, we should have the same right to cross borders as everyone else as long as we can, and as required, to get back to work or be cleared for disability. And what's actually the principal difference for a social security recipient like that? lives here in the Oslo region, if the person takes the trip to a salmon eel in the north to cultivate his hobby, versus the solitary infant mother who wants to fulfill the promise of the young to take them to Legoland in Billund, Denmark as long as they both meet the requirements Nav must have given in terms of follow-up and participation? That there is a party that has no greater respect and empathy for everyone who has happened to this matter than that they have the right to take a given with the EEA Agreement and yet claims – as the media reads, that the representative Pollestad of the Center Party does – that the convicted persons are not morally innocent, I think I am directly sorry. The fact that the centre party is against the EEA Agreement is fair enough, but with respect to reporting, the attention and resources should now be directed towards clearing up the scandal, not making a tragic situation for so many more worse — even more so than insinuating that people are exploiting the welfare system. For the Left, it is obvious that we must have a welfare system based on trust, not suspicion. In this case, neither are people who have exploited or abused the system that is the problem, but the system that has abused people who are at its most vulnerable, systematic and extensive over a long period of time. How has it been possible to do so all day long? How has such a practice and behaviour been able to develop in spite of many warnings over the years? In the light of this, the Left is pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs has now called for external scrutiny, and that we have agreed to send the report to the Minister for the Committee's proceedings in a cross-political context. Now we have to spend all our time and effort cleaning up what is a systematic attack by the government's side on people who are in a difficult situation. We politicians have first and foremost one task: regret the strongest, do everything we can to ensure that those who have been the victim of the scandal receive upliftment and compensation as soon as possible, and prevent others from being subjected to similar abuses in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e417	I think we're all, both position and opposition, shocked by the news we got last week. The fact that people who have not done anything wrong, have been called for reimbursement and have also been punished with prison is totally unacceptable. This is a serious situation – yes, it is a scandal in several areas. The stories we read about in the media these days only underline the human seriousness of this matter, and here the state has a clear legal and moral responsibility to clean up as quickly as possible. People who have been called upon to do wrong, and people who have been punished for crimes they have not committed, must be compensated. This needs to be corrected. I am therefore pleased that the government will establish a free legal aid system for persons who are promoting claims as a result of the incorrect interpretation of EEA law. Furthermore, the government will create a free legal aid system for those who will complain after the new treatment in Nav. The Government also considers the establishment of a separate compensation scheme to ensure that those affected are treated as easily and as quickly as possible. This is good, but it is also absolutely necessary in the situation we have come into. Now it is primarily about cleaning up with and for people who have been innocently hit, and it must be focused on solution and the future. One of the things that amazes in this case is how long this has been going on, and under different governments. When the practice goes all the way back to implementation in 2012, many people have a responsibility. While we are about to clean up, we must also seek to learn from mistakes that have been made, so that the administration complies with the law. The Council of State has announced that Nav has set up its own task force, which is now carrying out a full review of all the cases that may have been dealt with errors in the department. The Parliamentary Advocate is in contact with the Resumption Commission on follow-up to those who have been punished on the basis of misunderstanding of the legislation. This is good and right. The first priority now must be to clear up the matters in which people who are wrongly convicted and demanded a refund have to get their case settled and settled. This scandal has had serious consequences for many people and families, but it has also damaged public confidence. Every stone must be turned in this matter. We need to have confidence that the legislation in our welfare systems is being properly practised. Therefore, an examination is necessary based on this specific matter, so that we can take lessons for the future. I'm glad the Council of State has put such emphasis on it today. I would also, when we talk about trust, draw attention to the State Attorney's statements at the press conference that lessons must be learned from the fact that, although public authorities report a case, the legal basis has to be ignored. It hasn't happened, it looks like it has. The lawyer said during the press conference that they have always followed the actual basis, but the jessen which has been used has been accepted without sufficient counter-representation. It can't be like that. This is really alarming, and what we see in this case represents a challenge to legal certainty in our country. Where the reporter is the public, the kiss shall be followed and the interpretation of the country shall not be taken into account without question. I agree with the national lawyer that public authorities must also be critically followed up by both the prosecution authority and the court. It is absolutely necessary that we maintain trust – that people can trust that what is happening from the state and from the public side is correct. Yes, the Christian People's Party believes that the first priority must now be to clean up the people involved. People who have been wrongly harmed must have their upliftment, and trust must be restored. The State has also received many questions from ESA that need to be answered. We have a clearing job in front of us here, too, so that we maintain confidence in international cooperation. I trust that the government and the Council of State will continue this work in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e434	I have never seen such a serious case that so clearly shows Difference Norway. The Norwegian state has overrun vulnerable people, unjustly sent innocent people into prison, ruined the private economy of people, and wrongly deprived people of the support they were entitled to. The stories are many and tragic and reveal a deep political injustice by having a system that discriminates against people. It is not by chance that the biggest legal scandal in Norwegian history in peacetime is going down on those at the bottom of the table. Unfortunately, Norway has a long history of taking advantage of white-collar crime, while large resources are being used to persecute sick people in need of help from the welfare state. Professor Bernt has said that legal certainty is the most socially distorted good in society. We have to take this class with us a thorough settlement, and people have to be reviled. There are, in particular, two things we need clear answers to: firstly, how the political signals of the government may have contributed to the scandal, and secondly, the insubordination of the Council of State to stop the injustice. First to the signals: Neither Nav, the courts, nor the prosecution act operates in a vacuum. It is not certain that this scandal is due to some political instructions, but what we know is that in 2017, the Social Security Court began to refer to the judge who tried Nav's decision. Then the alarm should have called Nav, and state councillor Hauglie should have got the matter on his table immediately. But this happened after the government and the majority of the population tightened up the rights of people in need of social security. In June 2017, the Stortinge decided to limit the right to take redundancy payments to other EEA countries and to provide the national budget with an additional appropriation to Nav to collect money that had been thought to have been paid in the event of an error to social security beneficiaries. The signals were therefore tightening against the AFP recipients and using the resources to collect money rather than tidy up wrongfully. The duration and extent of the Nav scandal may be due to the government's policy of suspecting people who are ill and unemployed, and therefore the Council of State Hauglie must give a clear answer as to whether she can rule out political signals that Nav did not notify the Ministry when the Social Security Court referred to judges who reviewed Nav's decision. Second, why didn't Anniken Hauglie take earlier and more forceful action to stop the injustice? In November 2018, the Ministry was finally informed by Nav that the practice could be incorrect. Nevertheless, the Council of State did not trigger an alarm. In March 2019, the State Council asked Nav to change its practice, but only for short stays and only for future cases. Here, the state council should have asked Nav to go through cases back in time to rectify the injustice. She didn't. And then, on August 30, 2019, State Councillor Hauglie says that the big alarm is going – the fault also applies to people with long stays abroad. Nevertheless, people are sentenced to prison on the wrong basis as late as 16 September, being put into prison on the wrong basis as late as 17 October, and late last week people were released from prison. Why didn't Anniken Hauglie stop this all day? It has been weeks, yes months, since the so-called big alarm went off. Of course, this matter needs to be examined, but we do not need a commission to get Anniken Hauglie's answer to what she herself did to ensure immediately that no one else would be convicted on the wrong basis, and that no one else would spend one more day in prison on the wrong basis. We must now receive answers from the Council of State. Based on the answers, we decide whether Stortinget can trust Anniken Hauglie. People meet with distrust at Nav and are severely punished if they make a single mistake. If the greatest legal scandal in Norwegian history in peacetime does not have consequences for the seniors, it would be contrary to people's sense of justice and weaken confidence in the whole system, and that would be for good reason in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e450	Once again, I would like to thank Stortinget for giving me the opportunity to explain this serious matter as quickly as possible. Many have asked critical, good and highly relevant questions. I understand that, and I want to do what I can to find good answers to the questions asked. This is a serious matter, with great consequences for individuals. They have been deprived of the rights granted to them by the EEA Agreement. My statement today has been based on what I now know. When the ministry became familiar with the wrong practice in managing shorter stays before Christmas last year, the ministry took it up. The Executive Board also starts to change its practice. The issues that we have seen this fall, which is about staying longer, were issues that we were not familiar with or informed about this winter. It's natural that the investigation looks at it too. The cancellation notice on social security exports was submitted in June 2017. The changed practices of the Social Security Court were not known to the undersigned before December 2018. With regard to the tightening up that has been done, we have been clear that it is the framework of the regulation that sets the limits there. To the issue of political signals: the political signals given to now are to follow up the regulation in force in this area. I cannot or will not exclude that the work currently being done in both the social security administration and the judicial system, and the notified investigation will lead to more facts and some new questions on the table, including the matters I have explained here. Once again, I would like to stress that the state will settle itself against those who are affected. There is still uncertainty about the number of persons involved, but work is already under way. The first have already been contacted. I have asked the directorate for a plan for dealing with past and ongoing issues, a statement on how the agency works with EEA regulations, and an assessment of the authority’s competence to ensure that practices are in line with the legislation. The lawyer has his own follow-up to those who are unjustly punished. It is also the Advocate General who has to describe and explain how what we have now seen has been followed up by the prosecution authorities. The government will promote an additional number to the State budget in the first Friday, so that both Nav and social security rights are strengthened to deal with the work. The government will take a number of steps, both against those affected, and to prevent anything similar from happening again. The government will establish free legal aid schemes, both for those who will complain after the new treatment in Nav, and for those who promote claims. The Government will consider establishing a separate compensation scheme for those affected to ensure that they are treated as easily and as quickly as possible. I would like to assess whether a specific quality assurance mechanism is to be established, with the aim of ensuring that we have a necessary overview of the legal developments in the European Union and the EEA in the field of social security. I would like to assess whether the People's Security Act should be clarified and made more accessible. We must be able to trust that our welfare systems are being properly practiced. Because of the seriousness of the matter, I would like to ask an external sample – as I mentioned – to investigate the matter in order to identify how a misinterpretation could have occurred and been continued for such a long time both in social security administration and in criminal proceedings. I want to emphasise that the external review should also provide a basis for learning. I would like to stress that the extent of this error is almost unbelievable. It took a long time for the error to be discovered. Several questions should have been raised in the past several places. Now everything in the light is going to be corrected, and injustice is going to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e475	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President has taken the view that there is a consensus that the presentation of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs should be dealt with by the Committee. So the President will come back to it in a later report.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e491	The debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and speaking time will be distributed as follows: 25 minutes, 25 minutes, 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for the Greens, 5 minutes for the Greens and 5 minutes for the Reds. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e498	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the good report she made two weeks ago. The previous statement and the debate in connection with it clearly show the importance of clarifying what is the real space for action with the EEA Agreement. I think it's more than important to investigate even more thoroughly now. 114 years ago, in 1905, when the men in this hall – yes, because it was only men at that time – were to find a new royal couple for free Norway after the liberation from Sweden, it was just a point that the Danish Prince Carl's wife was British Princess Maud, the grandson of Queen Victoria and the daughter of the later King Edvard. A good relationship with the United Kingdom was very important for Norway in 1905, and so is it in 2019, regardless of the outcome of the Brexit process. Brexit is now exposed again, until 31 January. Speaking of marriage, it is important to remember that only the UK and the EU have negotiated the divorce agreement for years, both back and forth — not least on the British side. However, unlike in other divorces, the United Kingdom and the EU cannot move far from each other; geography is constant. The United Kingdom and the EU will remain neighbours, not least on the Irish island. And although the British Parliament was finally going to adopt a negotiated brexit agreement, it will only be the end of the negotiation process. Potentially much more extensive and complex negotiations await the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU. And here there is also a lesson for the relationship between Norway and the EU: it is quite legitimate to believe that the relationship between Norway and the EU should be regulated in ways other than through the EEA Agreement, but it would not have been done overnight to arrive at a new agreement. There should and should be discussions on the EEA Agreement. At the same time, however, it is clear to me that with increasing conflicts between the major powers, with trade wars, international law violations and the danger of the strongest countries coming to an end, we need more than ever an orderly cooperation with our neighbours in Europe. When the EU was forced to impose countermeasures against the US customs duty on steel and aluminium, Norway escaped because we were a member of the EEA. Then it didn't just hold a trade agreement. Norway is not the strongest alone. We don't do that militaryly, economically, or politically. The EEA Agreement was negotiated for a period of time with 12 EU countries and six EFTA countries. Today the ratio is 28 to 3. We are definitely not stronger today. At the same time, many of those who disagree with the agreement are confident that the EU Member States want a much better deal with Norway than they are willing to give to the United Kingdom. It's wrong, in my opinion, to build their analysis on what you want, and not the world we actually see around us. The EEA Agreement is not perfect, and at a time when Norway needs a lot of foreign labour, we would have had to introduce strict regulations to take care of the standard in Norwegian working life even if we were outside the EEA. These regulations have been subject to political disagreement in Norway and in very many other countries. It is not the EU, but the majority of the population in Norway who have voted against the Workers’ Party’s proposal to remove the general possibility of temporary employment, to introduce collective redress and to improve the public service system. These are measures that, in my opinion, help to maintain good Norwegian pay and working conditions. When the European Union is given responsibility for everything that is wrong, it is doing it very easily on the right, which has been opposed to many of the measures that we wanted to introduce, such as: to remove the right to temporary employment, collective redress or the public service. Some parties also claim that the old free trade agreement is just as good because in any case the EU wants to buy gas and fish from Norway. But they forget to tell us that of other exports from mainland Norway, except for oil and gas from the sea, two thirds go to our Nordic and European partners. Hardly any country is more dependent on the European market than Norway. And the old free trade agreement of 1973 says nothing about exports of services, which are increasingly important for Norwegian exports and for Norwegian jobs. We need to distinguish between issues where there is political disagreement in Norway and areas where EEA legislation provides the framework for Norwegian legislation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Government is in order to break up and outload train traffic in Norway on all sections of the rail system, regardless of what the EU legislation is, and even before any accession to the fourth rail package of the EU would require it. Speaking of the fourth railway package: If we join it, we say yes to launching train services regardless of what kind of government the voters in Norway want. The exceptions to this general rule are minimal as the Workers' Party considers. The space for action to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs refers, i.e. in the case of the fourth railway package, is probably almost non-existent. And while the Minister of Labour of today's government thought that Norwegian had to be allowed to grant Thai pay and work conditions to cabin crew because of the EEA agreement, the Civil Service Law stated that the right of a lawyer disagreed with the right-wing government's argument about the EEA Agreement. There are enough examples of the fact that the right-wing government is unjustly using the EEA Agreement as a breakup bar to force its policies, its employment policy. We actually have a room for action. The Foreign Minister spoke in his statement about exploiting the space for action, and that was the theme of the debate before today. I hope I should not understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs at that time that she believed that using the space for action in the EEA Agreement is about one of two things: either to influence the legislation at an early stage or to use the right of reservation after the EU has taken its decisions for the longest time. I believe that both parts are important: on the one hand, actively promote Norwegian interests while the processes are ongoing in Brussels, and, on the other hand, if necessary, actually be prepared to use the right of reservation. But using the action space is about so much more. It is about negotiating adaptations, derogations and transitional arrangements. Yes, the very basis for EEA is non-discrimination and common legislation. However, there are also a wide range of issues in which it is legitimate and in place to argue for their own adaptations, exceptions and transitional arrangements. However, let there be no doubt about this, cf. The debate before today: The action room should never, never be used to throw innocent people into prison. Finally, I would like to express my support for the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the negotiations with Hungary on EEA funds for civil society. It must be an indispensable principle that the management of EEA civil society funds should be independent of the authorities, irrespective of the country concerned. Now the opposition has recently won elections in Budapest and in several other Hungarian cities. It may be a sign that strangling the rights of civil society and the independence of civil society does not pay off. I think it is positive that the Minister for Climate and Environment is present today, and I also think it is positive that the government has decided to send letters to the EU. But the most impressive thing would have been if we were able to deliver more in terms of cutting climate emissions here at home, and we probably also get a thorough discussion about that in the course of the day. I also believe that there should be greater excitement in this room to find out what is the space for action in today's EEA Agreement than when we promoted the proposal, which unfortunately did not get a majority, just weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e531	Nils T. Bjørke had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e538	The momentum of this debate has reminded us that EU and EEA issues are so far from just a matter for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or that the importance of selling goods is that export industries thrive and that they affect employment. We need to be more aware that EU law and our connection to it through the EEA Agreement also means that we are participating in binding international law. Storing and management must be more aware of this interaction. This also sets new precedents for the work of our courts and complaints bodies. It is up to the courts and judges to decide on individual requirements and individual ships without political interference, but also to harmonise legal standards in a coherent, non-judicial system that combines the formation of international law – of which we are then part – with national legislation and priorities. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for having the debate today enriched by the Climate and Environmental Councils. It just underlines the point of how much domestic policy is in our relationship with the EEA. We still see that EEA citizens receive direct and individual rights in the associated country. Where international law is otherwise based on the fact that countries are legal entities and where the practical impact for citizens is more dependent on the will of the States to comply, there is a considerable difference in the rights of citizens directly under the EEA Agreement. The British EU withdrawal process has illustrated how much more EU membership is than a contractual relationship between countries. The same standards and legislation lay the basis for the horizontal cooperation of civil society, national institutions and businesses in Europe. Based on the free movement of citizens, it has also created cohesion and material improvement in living conditions in our part of the world. I believe that there is reason to stop when we now round the 30th anniversary of the fall of the wall and the integration of the former Eastern bloc into the European Community every moment. Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary became members 15 years ago. Thereafter, two countries of Czechoslovakia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, have emerged peacefully. East Germany has become part of a combined Germany. The prosperity of these countries has doubled following the collapse of state socialism. A checker now has 73 pst. of German standard of living, Slovakia has 63 pst, and both Poland and Hungary have 57 pst, and it is increasing. East German citizens have reached 95 pst. of the standard of living compared to the former West Germany. Thus, in the case of a parameter as important as life expectancy, the difference between the two parts of Germany for male workers has fallen from seven years — which East German workers lived shorter than their counterparts in the West. This is a number that's a numerator. This, of course, is also due to a transition to prosperity through more trade, a rational and efficient market economy, but also to a democratic system that reduces injustices and corrects errors. It is also due to the departure of some of the workers who have sent money home to their families and communities, a phenomenon that will be transitory as they reach our standard of living. For those who remember our left side mantra during the discussion on Norwegian membership before the 1994 vote: the claim was that we should not join because the EU was and would remain a richer club with a bridge against poorer countries. So it was supposed to be a trading block that kept others out and called for their own privileges. Then the new independent, emerging democracies were integrated and went from stagnation to strong improvement in living standards for ordinary people – although this did not happen without transitional problems and still does not happen without transitional problems. But then it can also be said that the political trends that we have heard concern about are also being countered and combated by the international community in which the former Eastern bloc countries are involved, and on which the previous speeches were concerned, are the signs that this community of values is gradually infecting. In these times, when we see that the most radical democracies in the world can also face unpleasant trends, we should not take our own rule of law and democracy for granted. This must also be maintained at home, and of course there are many debates about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e559	It is well known that there is a relatively high distance between the Right and the Advance Party in relation to EU relations and regulation through the EEA Agreement. And after listening to the representative Huitfeldt from the Workers' Party, it seems that there is a miles gap between the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, for a tribute from the EU that the Anniken Huitfeldt stood for here, I have not heard before. Let me say, there's nothing scary or dangerous about nationally oriented parties. The ‘powers’ to which reference is often made are feedback from the people. It is healthy for democracy, not dangerous. People demand to be heard – not overrun. We politicians don't have to teach, we have the ear to the ground. The opposition to supranational and, in part, undemocratic institutions provokes – no matter how good intentions politicians may have. Then you have to stop and be careful to enter into new obligations that reduce national control and governance. Policy anchored in a strong and sovereign nation state provides security. A solid nation state does not threaten anyone. It's not aimed at others, and it's not hounding. It is rather an encouragement and incentive for other nations to build national communities. Strong nation states do not mean the construction of walls, and of course they have a common interest in cooperation and trade with each other, completely independent of institutions. In other words, strong nation states are not a zero-sum game. It is quick to make claims and accusations and quickly to draw the conclusion that we need even more globalism. While coordination of policies and international legislation may create better conditions of competition and higher economic growth, the schemes go beyond the four freedoms, they at the same time erase national autonomy and self-determination. It is a balance – towards more economic growth and more national control. It's not given in 2019 what's best for the nations. For example, the British have concluded differently from Norway. The events of the past few days and the presentation of a week and a half ago show that Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA has a major impact on Norway — greater than we were aware of just months ago. Social security exports have been discussed in the past and several batches have proposed to reduce exports – in smaller payments. The Progress Party has also proposed – and has programmed – purchasing power adjustments to social security exports. There is also something that should be considered. The representative Wiborg has also proposed to have an attendance obligation to receive social security benefits. It should also be considered when carrying out the review. The purchasing power adjustments are also mentioned in the Granavolden platform. What has now been discovered is that instead of reducing capacity, exports have increased — and should have increased considerably more. Then you have to take a breath on the ground and think completely — also about whether a rich country such as Norway can accept such conditions for cooperation. The government must have boasted that it has prepared us well for both possible outcomes of the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU. It is important that we are leading were, and that the market both ways are open and based on mutual and fair competition. The EEA Agreement shall ensure the four freedoms – freedoms to ensure imports and exports on equal terms with the countries that are members of the EU. In recent years, we have seen that the EEA has grown in scope, and there are now joint solutions for, among other things. migration, justice and climate. These are policy areas that cannot be clearly justified in the EEA Agreement. In any case, that was not what was suggested when Norway acceded to the EEA Agreement. People register this, and many are very angry out there. When you give talks around, you notice the protests that are out there. It is an obligation for us in this room to listen to the people and not teach the people. We should therefore be careful to act as EU members without such a sovereignty decision being anchored in the people by referendum. The fact that the statement is referred to as the EU/EEA statement may also appear to be in spite of the commitment to which Norway has joined. Maybe it should have been the EEA statement. Norway’s climate emissions represent 0,11 pst. of global climate emissions. A lot can therefore be said about both the goal and the meaning of doing cut nationally, but the Granavolden platform says that we should reduce our national emissions to 55 pst. However, there is nothing about encouraging EU countries to do the same, but on the contrary that we should report targets in line with EU ambitions. In any case, if the Earth is thought to be facing a rapid climate collapse, it is absolutely essential to make diet-benefit calculations of which global measures will reduce climate emissions the most. Norwegian welfare levels are high above our countries of cooperation in Europe. Our GDP is 30 pst. higher per capita than in our neighbouring EU Member States, and more than twice the EU average. This often leads to a deterioration of national solutions in common European solutions. This is, of course, unacceptable for several reasons, but particularly unacceptable in view of the level of costs in Norway. In other words, all possible economic agreements under the EEA Agreement should be adjusted in terms of purchasing power – and we believe that the same should be done with social security exports. When the European Commission President von der Leyen says that EU workers must have a wage they can live on, no one will disagree with it. However, the consequences are quite different for EU countries with low GDP and Norway. Von der Leyen wants to introduce minimum wages, which of course is not acceptable to Norway. Norway shall also be very careful to adopt acts in which we give sovereignty on grounds of competition. Market competition may of course be sought, but there are sometimes reasons why the desire for even higher standards of living should give way to the principle of national self-determination. It might sound surprising to many, but it's a limit on what's to be balanced here, on the standard of living in Norway, and what's that we're going to rule our own country. For example, it is entirely inappropriate for Norway to enter into cooperation which suggests that we are depriving ourselves of the possibility of pursuing a national immigration policy. A comprehensive and long-term immigration policy does not mean bringing migrants to Norway. Migrants do not flee from anything or someone, migrants aim to get a better life materially. It is fully understandable, but accepting migrants will undermine all existing agreements in the field of asylum and refugee. Immigrants in many EU countries are already creating major challenges, and the only dangerous road is for migrants to return and help build their own countries. That should be obvious. This message must be clear from the EU and Norway. Finally, let me pay tribute to the government for the work done to get Norway included and integrated into the EU Permanent Structured Cooperation, PESCO. The participation of Norway will be crucial for the Norwegian defence industry. A potential exclusion would close the Norwegian defence industry out of the European market and make the Norwegian defence industry completely dependent on industrial cooperation with the United States. In several areas, Norway has defended partial sovereignty with reference to a level playing field. It is therefore totally unreasonable and unacceptable to keep the Norwegian defence industry outside PESCO. It is also unreasonable that Norway should contribute more financially than the other participating countries. Nor shall Norwegian participation be exceptional or where Norway’s participation has an added value.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e589	Today, we have heard from Huitfeldt, the leader of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, a tribute to the EEA Agreement and our relationship with the EU. At the same time, we have also heard today what problem the EEA Agreement and the interpretation of EU decisions can create for many individuals in Norway. How many single people and families have their lives turned on our heads, we don't know yet. Nor do we know the causes. The Nav scandal has to be cleared up, and when any of the country’s misinterpretation of the EEA decision has occurred, it has to be corrected. Saka will be thoroughly reviewed. In this context, it is also important to consider whether any of the reasons why it could go so wrong are the way Norway adopts new EU decisions in Norwegian law. They are not incorporated into Norwegian existing law paragraphs. They will be governed by Norwegian law by own legislative acts which refer to the Norwegian legal paragraphs. Norwegian law predates the law, the legislative decision itself and any decisions of law determining how the law is to be understood. In the EU, this is not the case. There is no emphasis on prework of laws. It's a big difference when we know how to run the law in Norway – thorough NOUs with earrings, there are long processes. It is a part of Norwegian democracy that is rooted in the way we create new laws in Norway and govern the country. A lot of interpretation of the law has been found to solve it by fine-tuning the preliminary work of the law. Some of this brief concludes by adopting the EU's way of adopting laws, so the preliminary work does not count, only the legal text and any legal decisions. The legal scandal that has occurred is another example of the fact that EU law is above Norwegian law, but that at the time that the promises were up for handling, it was not desirable for the majority, perhaps, in this Chamber to state this fact so clearly. On the contrary, it was established that the Social Security Regulation does not affect Norwegian social security legislation, as the State Council said in its previous article. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a statement on 24 October which cannot be contradicted. She says that for us who are opposed to the EU and the EEA, using the action space is synonymous with using the right of reservation. I want to turn it around a little bit and claim that for the Foreign Minister and the government, Norwegian European policy is about asking the chefs in Brussels to perhaps use a little less spices in food, but politely swallow the whole court when he first stands on the table. Or as she herself says from the pulpit in Stortinget: ‘For the government it means using the EEA Agreement space to influence, not primarily to oppose legislation when it is adopted in the EU.’ Today, Norway has a government that adapts Norway to the EU in all possible areas. Even in defence policy, the government wants Norway to become a party to President Macron's visions of an independent EU defence. And this happens, step by step, without an enlightened debate in Stortinget. Nor shall it have consequences for NATO. Nope. Of course, a wide range of defence activities within the EU have implications for NATO participation. Firstly, it is difficult to see that the EU, with the Norwegian government on the verge, can carry out this construction without financial means, and that at a time when our allies in the United States are pressuring more than ever for the European countries to take their share of the cost of the Atlantic Alliance. Secondly, there is a risk of building up parallel structures in several fields, which in worst cases could lead to coordination challenges in a crisis. I look forward and hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will join with the Minister of Defence in coming to the Storting and do good for the government to take its decisions and further plans for defence cooperation with the EU and the consequences it would have for the economy, personnel and not least for our security policy in the time to come. A matter that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not say anything specific about in his statement is the EU's Energy Union. She underlined the importance of the EU's energy union for Norway, but said little about its content. Before the third energy market package was included in the EEA Agreement, the EU Energy Package 4 was adopted by the Council of Ministers, also called the Winter Package. This Decision fully sees the increasing extent of the European Union’s sovereignty relinquishment. ACER and ACER under-use in Norway, RME, are getting more and more power at the expense of national governance. The power of regulation for energy in Norway, RME, shall be one-off energy regulator in Norway. The centre game will come back to this in a later article today. It is said by several that one will sort out the space for action in the EEA Agreement. It is more and more clear to me that the government and the Labour Party would prefer to leave the EU to set up that space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e613	Cross-border cooperation to address our major challenges is crucial – as when we are going to be serious about resolving the climate crisis. In order to ensure major breakthroughs, we depend on individual countries moving ahead and showing that it is possible to combine high prosperity with low emissions. Therefore, Norway cannot now enter into the climate agreement with the EU, becoming a sleep cushion in the conversion of Norway. It must not be – as some in the government parties want – an agreement where we pay other countries to do the job for us. That's three more reasons. The first is the obvious moral reason: for many years, we have been earning a great deal of our wealth in raising fossil energy – the very cause of the climate crisis that we are now seeing playing out in front of our eyes. Norway has been at the top of the world for a long time when we look at emissions per person. Thus, we also bear greater responsibility than many others for cutting emissions, developing new technologies and putting them into use. The second reason we're going to cut emissions is related to the first: we're going to contribute to a technology development that cuts emissions at home, but even more important is a technology development that means a lot to the world in the fight to bring down emissions. We have the expertise, not least from our experience in the oil industry, the supplier industry and other highly competent parts of Norwegian business. Within offshore wind power, carbon capture and storage, and the whole of society, we can do a lot. But carbon capture and storage, offshore wind power and all-electrication of Norway, such as Bets on electric aircraft, will not be profitable if we just invest in quota purchases and efforts where it is cheapest to cut. The third reason for cutting emissions in Norway is that it will safeguard our jobs and our well-being in the future. If we don't change our business, we risk losing in competition with others, others who have cut their emissions, who have converted, and who deliver the most climate-conscious consumers in the future will demand. It has still not been clarified by the government whether they will take advantage of the possibility to use allowances from the allowances system in order to meet the non-quota target, as the agreement with the EU opens. I therefore hope that the climate and environment minister in the debate today will state that it is not appropriate to spend the 6 million. tonnes of CO2 allowances that we can use, for example: to reduce efforts to cut emissions from road traffic in Norway. There is also a need for a clear response from the government on whether Norway will strengthen its climate objectives by 2030, as the Paris Agreement asks us to do. We will report new and reinforced targets to the UN by 9 February next year. In the revised National Budget 2019, we can read the following: ‘The Government wants Norway to strengthen its climate change objective under the Paris Agreement and to implement the objective in cooperation with the EU. We are working to see the EU's overall level of ambition increase to 55 pst. cut in 2030 compared to 1990, and will report an enhanced Norwegian target in line with EU ambitions.’ My question then is: what if EU ambitions do not increase the targets? What does the Norwegian Government do? Another question is whether Norway will meet the deadline for the submission of an enhanced climate target. It is well possible that the EU will not reach the deadline of 9 February. What does Norway do? Will we also wait to deliver a new target and thus contribute to delaying the important international efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions and get an enhanced Paris agreement through increased ambitions? As we all know, the promises given in the Paris Agreement are insufficient to achieve the objective of the agreement to limit the temperature increase to a maximum of two degrees, preferably one and a half degrees. Finally, I would like to link some comments to other parts of the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Europe still does not have a solution for the redistribution of refugees, and there is a anthropogenic humanitarian disaster on European soil, on the Greek islands. We hear that the Foreign Minister is concerned about an increased number of arrivals. At the same time, we are concerned that the EU is more concerned about stopping people from crossing the sea than about helping people who are on the run. That is why we in SV believe that the unused funds for Greece from last year must be set aside for emergency aid and not just go back into the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e639	I would first of all like to thank the Foreign Minister for a clear and strong statement. It is important that we have a foreign minister with a heart for Europe, who understands the challenges of the continent and understands that Norway's future is inextricably linked to the progress of the EU. The European project is about freedom – freedom from war and freedom to act and live together. When this debate first engaged me in the 1970s, Norway was not as closely connected to the EC, people did not travel as much, and people did not act as much across European borders. I dreamt of taking an education abroad, but the conditions were not right for it. Today, the situation is quite different. People travel across borders, not just between neighbouring countries. We're dependent on each other as never before. It's about electricity prices, the train network that connects us more closely, or the immigration of labour, which has created mutual economic growth we didn't dare to dream of in the past. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that we have a foreign minister who sees these opportunities in Europe and who also clearly says that we should contribute to an economically strong Europe, a free Europe, a safe Europe, a responsible Europe. These days' Nav revelations show how important it is that the legislation is transparent, predictable and uncomplicated. Our lives have changed since the EEA Agreement was negotiated in 1992, and the freedom to move between countries in the EEA area is more important now than ever. Social fraud is a problem – it is indisputable. But is this what we're essentially going to rig our system for? Or are we going to facilitate that we are part of an internal market in which the free movement of goods and services, capital and persons is our objective, where we build down the barriers that prevent free movement while at the same time introducing discriminatory and clear control mechanisms that prevent abuse? Closer European integration will enable us to address more of these challenges in the future, and it is good that we have a foreign minister who sees the opportunities – not just the challenges – associated with the European project. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also gave a good account of Europe's economic prospects. Although the economic situation in today's Europe is stable, we face several structural challenges. The main threat is perhaps the lack of commitment to free trade. If that's what we know triggers creativity, innovation and creativity, it's the free and open market where people are allowed to get involved in common issues. The freedom to trade with those whom you want is not only important to ensure economic growth, but also to safeguard Europe as a project of freedom. Once the United States has turned inwards and no longer takes the fight for free trade, we Europeans must do it. Although we are not a member of the EU, Norway must take a leading role in reforming the World Trade Organisation and put free trade back on top of the international political agenda. It's our job, and I'm sure the Foreign Minister will manage this in a good way. On behalf of the Left, I was particularly pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs used so much of his statement to talk about the defence of the rule of law and democracy in Europe. Nothing is more important to ensure people a life of freedom than that we create the framework that premises for a self-determined life. When countries such as Hungary and Poland threaten this freedom, it is also a threat to freedom in other European countries because we are part of a democratic community of values, because our citizens are allowed to move freely between countries, and because an EU that is not based on democratic values and human rights is not the peace project we need to solve the challenges of the future. In the EEA funds, we have a strong tool to strengthen the rule of law. These are important means that have helped to build a robust civil society in countries such as Hungary. It is therefore reassuring to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs say that it is an indispensable principle that the management of the EEA funds for civil society should be independent of the authorities, irrespective of the country concerned. We are bound to a European destiny. It applies in all areas — from economy to democratic institutions, trade or climate and environment. Our success is Europe’s success – and vice versa. At the same time, we must remember the gift of European cooperation. The EEA has given us market access to the world's largest economic bloc in line with the EU Member States. Our role in the world stands and falls on the EU's ability to fight for European values such as transparency, the rule of law, free trade and democracy. In the situation following, whether there are demonstrations in Hong Kong, Turkish invasion of Syria or Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, it is clear that Norway and the EU are the strongest when we speak with one voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e662	I want to start by thanking the Secretary of State for a very good and clear statement. Then we have the debate on this distribution on a special day in Stortinget; we have not experienced a corresponding case associated with the EEA Agreement. However, I would say that the EEA Agreement is also well on this day. The Christian People's Party has a significant parental responsibility for the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is not a perfect agreement, but he has lit us well since he entered into force more than 25 years ago. Today, when we also see international trade conflicts – yes, actual trade wars and major economic changes – the EEA Agreement is more important than anything else. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did a great deal for Brexit. What we see now is that responsible politicians in the United Kingdom could not recommend a brexit without an agreement. Therefore, I found it difficult to understand in the light of the entire Brexit history that Norwegian politicians want to both renegotiate and terminate the EEA agreement – when we have the lessons from Brexit. How can we believe that Norway would have a more favourable or better relationship with the EU than the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, which is a significantly larger and more important trading partner for the EU? I also register the good preconstructions Norway has made of brexit, and that we are bidden on the day of brexit. Then I would like to comment on some of the issues raised by the Foreign Minister in his statement. She says, among other things: Clearly, a common Nordic voice in Europe is important. I'm very happy about it, because we have a community of values in the Nordic region, and we need to secure important institutions and frameworks that have been built up in the post-war period. It can contribute together precisely the Nordic countries. All Nordic countries are part of the EU/EEA Community. Then there is a paradox that some people are outside the EU, as Norway does, but it also gives freedom of action in that community and allows the Nordics to actually be an even stronger voice. I want to quote what the Foreign Minister says: ‘A closer security cooperation in Europe cannot replace NATO, but it can build under – and in some cases complement – the alliance’. I thought that was an important and correct signal in 2019. We need more legs to stand on, also attached to our security and defence cooperation. The Foreign Minister says: ‘The Government supports efforts to find pan-European solutions to a pan-European migration challenge.’ We now see a marked increase in people arriving in Greece from Turkey, so far this year there are 50,000. This means that the total number of asylum seekers is high, and unfortunately many die. That is why the Foreign Minister's signal is important, and more importantly, she says that once one has got it in place, Norway is prepared to take its share of responsibility. There are several who have commented that the climate minister is also sitting here, along with the Minister for Transport. I would just like to say that when we now link to EU climate legislation from 2021 to 2030, it is actually an example of how we should benefit from the EEA Agreement. This is cooperation at its best. And it requires Norway just within the climate work in a way that we haven't been obliged to before. So I agree: it's not easy to see an alternative to the EEA Agreement, but we just have to look at the possibilities that that EEA Agreement gives us, so that we can take advantage of the space for action that it provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e687	The EEA Agreement and EEA cooperation shall affect the responsibilities of all Councils of State. This debate is therefore also attended by the Minister for Climate and Environment and by the Minister for Transport. It is in line with the initiative I took towards Stortinget last autumn, because I think it is important that we can go a little deeper and more thoroughly into some issues just when we have the opportunity to make these presentations. Let me just briefly repeat a few of the main messages from my presentation, which is also a response to many good speeches that have come so far in the debate. One is that the challenges Europe is facing, whether there are issues relating to climate, migration or threats to democracy and the rule of law, are simply too big to be solved by a single country, a single nation. When this happens in European countries, it is also our challenges. We are part of Europe, Europe is our continent, what is happening in Europe, concerns us, and we are going to be involved in developing what is our continent. We also see that new management in the EU offers new opportunities for Norway. We will soon be in touch with new Commissioners and the new institutions when they are in place – that is, as the Storting is familiar with, a little delay. However, I would also like to reiterate my call for Stortinget to link similar close contacts with the European Parliament that the Stortinget has traditionally always had, because it is also important to be able to take care of Norwegian interests. With regard to the issue of the room for action in the EEA Agreement, my point was that we have the most to profit from it and get the most impact on our interests if we are involved in influencing in advance. It gives us little flexibility to say yes or no to something in retrospect if we have not been involved in influencing in advance, and that was also my point. I think climate policy is also a good example in an area where we are actually using this space of action, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Climate and Environment will say more about it in his introduction. Although the EU and the UK government now agree on a withdrawal agreement, Brexit is, as is well known, deferred this time until 31 January. In addition, new elections have now been announced in the United Kingdom on 12 December. The main change in the announcement agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU is that the so-called Irish border backstop has been replaced by a new permanent arrangement for Northern Ireland. This means that the whole of the United Kingdom can leave the EU customs union. At the same time, the scheme requires all imports of goods into Northern Ireland, including from the United Kingdom, to be charged EU customs duties. In short, this implies for Norway that Norwegian exports to Northern Ireland will be possible in the future under the same conditions as to the rest of the EU, while exports to the United Kingdom will take place under the new UK legislation when it comes into place. For Norway, this is an important clarification. So we still do not know whether this announcement agreement will be adopted by the new Parliament. For Norway, this postponement means that we maintain the preparations for brexit both with and without an outsourcing agreement until we can say with certainty how this ends. It is not possible to opt out of one of the four freedoms and keep the others, and it may be important to remember that in EEA cooperation, commitments often go hand in hand with rights, and very often then the individual's rights. To argue for fewer Norwegian obligations is also to argue for fewer rights for Norwegian citizens. I am very pleased with the unambiguous support the Stortinget expresses to Norwegian positions – as well as the positions of Iceland and Liechtenstein – as regards the conditions for the Civil Society Fund. It is a support I feel that the Storting has given consistency, and it is important, because we see that support for civil society in several European countries is crucial to ensuring the space of civil society, in order to ensure freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly, to mention something. That is exactly why it is important to have strong and unambiguous support from Stortinget in your back. As we have said repeatedly: from the Norwegian side and from the other two donors, it is not appropriate to complete total agreements, in this case with Hungary, which is the only country with which we have still not agreed, until all the elements are in place. It includes consensus on the management of the Civil Society Fund. The Brexit process has demonstrated how close we are together in Europe, and I also see it as a good picture of what we see as a benefit from the EEA Agreement for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e714	My question is about the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in the light of the debate we have had in this Chamber before today, but also in the light of some disagreements about what is the real space of action, wants to investigate it on its own. I think it is wrong to have a separate EEA study where we are investigating alternatives, because we are going to stick to the EEA agreement, we agree on that. But in, for example, The Norwegian Government had a different interpretation of the EEA Agreement from that of the Lawyers’ Law. When it came to the general broadcasting law, the government claimed that there was no room for action for what the Stortinge decided, but we had no problem with it. In the case of the fourth railway package, there is disagreement, and not least the case that has been discussed in the Chamber earlier today. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs wish to investigate what is the scope of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e721	I believe that we have a good system in Norway, where we have very regular dialogue with the Storting on EEA and EU matters, including with regard to regulations and legal acts being implemented. I believe we have good discussions about where the room for action is, and the government also informs the Storting about how we work to maintain that space of action in the best possible way. So it's not always that we get along with it, just like other countries that want to influence the legislation, but I feel that there's a big consensus in the Stortinget that the sum is a good thing for Norway, even if you don't always get a pass for everyone's wishes. I also believe that this is the way in which we are best able to maintain the space for action, through the ongoing dialogue with the Storting, and not least with both Brussels and the capitals of Europe, where we are promoting our views. An example of this is the issue of cabotage, where we are part of the Road Alliance together with other countries that want to influence the EU in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e730	The representative of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Tybring-Gjedde, who is the leading representative of the Government Party, has made his contribution to this debate, expressing the fact that the national State is a much better instrument for international work and respect for Norway’s obligations and rights in international society than also cooperation linked to the EEA Agreement. Of course, it is a very special situation, that we experience it so clearly here in the main hall, and it obviously requires the Minister of Foreign Affairs to comment on the statements made by the representative of the Government on Norwegian EU membership, as we heard in his statement. Is this representative? Is this something that the Progress Party really also believes internally in the government? It's necessary to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e735	As the representative of Kolberg is also well-known, the government has established its policy in this area both in the Granavolden platform, in the statements I have made, and in what I have just repeated on the platform, on the importance of pan-European solutions to solve precisely the challenges that are far too great for individual countries to solve alone. That also means that the Government Declaration has joined the Progress Party. It is the government that governs, and it is also the policy I have expressed in both this statement and previous statements, which are government policy for cooperation with the EU and through EEA cooperation. The views expressed by Christian Tybring-Gjedde have also been expressed in the past, but that is not the government's policy, and I think the representative of Kolberg is also familiar with that from previous statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e742	Yes, but it is only necessary to find this out, as the Foreign Minister now does. This means that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is not representative of the policy and perception of the Progress Party in this area. It is now fixed, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. So to a slightly different side of this, as a follow-up of the representative of Anniken Huitfeldt's question, and that's what this is all about. We have had many discussions in this room about limitations and regulation of working life, i.e. the issues of working life – all the issues of working life, so that the foreign minister understands that I sum up when I use that expression. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that positive decisions in these cases, which would improve Norwegian working life, are contrary to the scope of action in the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e749	I am not quite sure if I understood the question correctly, because it is that positive decisions in the EU that have an impact in the EEA are something Norway has joined because it has given us better rules than we had before. Among other things, we have extended employee rights in many areas where we did not have legislation from the past. So there's no difference here. On the contrary, this has been positive for Norway and for the rights of Norwegian workers. That's also why we've been busy implementing it, and there's a lot of examples of it. We've also discussed that in previous statements. I believe that this is also a very important example of the space for action, namely that the EU adopts rules that we did not have in Norway today or at the time, extending the rights of workers, and which are also important in a pan-European perspective, so that it is possible to have a labour market that extends across more than one country in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e756	On 24 October, the Council of State, in its decision, will pay tribute to most of what the EEA Agreement brings with it to Norway. However, she clearly reiterated the issue of minimum wages, which both LO and NHO strongly oppose, but which the successive EU leader, Ursula von der Leyen, burned to enter the EU countries. The Council of State, in its statement, said that the government will present its views to the EU, both directly and through the Nordic countries, but as it also glared that the EEA opponents would say no to the introduction of directives we disagree with, the question is: What would the Minister and Government do if the EU decided on the minimum wage and ignored Norway’s point of view? If so, will the government consider saying no to this as the social partners are so strongly opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e761	First of all, of course, it is not right that I have had a hunch about someone who does not want to introduce directives, rather on the contrary, but I raised a problem that is very topical. If the representative Navarsete had read the whole context of the quotation about Ursula von where Leyen was standing in, she would have seen that Ursula von where Leyen has added that this must happen within the national frameworks and traditions that exist. We have a very clear national tradition, and that's why a lot of my point in what I said was to maintain tripartite cooperation, which works very well in Norway, and which we want to maintain. This is precisely why dialogue with the social partners is also so important in this context. I also think it is important to be aware that although I drew out many of the positive aspects of EEA cooperation for Norway and for Norwegian jobs, perhaps especially in the districts, it is of course also the case that the EEA Agreement has aspects to which we are not as positive. We also talk about them, and one of the reasons we're working on caring for our room for action is that we don't always agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e768	There were two sentences on this matter. I've read the context. But I have another question, whether or not I also raised it from the interlocutory chair, simply defence cooperation, because the Council of State also said very few words that Norway has been part of the European Intervention Initiative, EI2, which could lead to Norwegian forces being given duty missions abroad at short notice. Of course, questions about details of this must be addressed to the Minister of Defence, but when the Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to Norway's participation in an army that can be deployed anywhere in the world, including without a UN mandate, as a membership that'strengthens our contact area with central European allies', the question is: Does the Council of State really believe that membership of the EI2 does not have other and far more extensive implications for Norway than strengthening the contact area with central European allies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e775	Here it was a lot at once. Firstly, the Minister of Defence has explained in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence both to the European Intervention Initiative, EI2, and not least to the reasons why Norway wanted to join Nordic countries. It is quite right that questions about details should be asked to the Minister of Defence, but let me nevertheless correct something the representative of Navarsete said about this in his statement. It was that they wanted Norway to take part in the European defence of Macron. This is not, therefore, a European defence, and our prerequisite for participating in various initiatives to strengthen European defence and transatlantic cooperation is that it should not be a substitute for or at the expense of NATO. It is and will be our main priority, and this Macron initiative, to which several countries have joined, is not a European army, as the representative of Navarsete now suggests it is. There are completely different assumptions for that than the representative seems to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e783	As I was in my speech, Europe has still not been able to find a solution for the redistribution of refugees, and it is about to be a man-made humanitarian disaster on European soil. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What does the Norwegian Government do to relocate refugees, and does the government plan to increase support for Greece?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e788	This is an important topic, which I also spent a lot of time in the presentation, and that was reason for it, because we see, as I was also on, increased arrivals along some of the routes. It is a concern because the path is dangerous, and it is a concern because, on the European side, it must be able to deal with migrants in a manner that is sound. It also means quick return of those who do not have protection needs, and I feel that there is a great deal of agreement here in Stortinget. The government is very active in the ongoing discussions in the EU, precisely because we support pan-European solutions and believe that pan-European solutions are the only way to address this challenge. We are also actively using EEA funds, particularly in Greece, but also in Bulgaria and Romania, to strengthen reception capacity in order to manage increased arrivals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e793	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e798	First, I would like to thank the Committee for the opportunity to take part in this debate and to introduce it. On 25 October this year — the day following the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs — the EEA Committee in Brussels adopted the Agreement on the joint implementation of climate objectives between the EU, Iceland and Norway. It was an important decision for Norwegian climate policy. For the first time, we get truly binding climate targets for the entire Norwegian economy. The climate agreement with the EU means that Norway will have a new and binding climate policy framework. From 2021 to 2030 we follow the same climate legislation as the EU. Climate legislation is doing our climate target in 40 pst. emission reduction to not only a target but a real climate obligation. The usual monitoring and judicial system of the EEA Agreement is being used. This means that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, will monitor Norway’s compliance with the obligations set out in the Agreement. This is done, inter alia: through an audit of the emission accounts and other reports from Norway are obliged to prepare. If ESA finds that Norway does not fulfil the obligations, we risk being taken to the EFTA Court, and we will be able to face sanctions if we do not do our part of the pan-European climate service. However, it is important to emphasise the following: Norway itself decides how to meet the obligation. It is up to us to decide in which sectors the cuts are to be taken. The EU's climate requirement is ambitious, but in the government platform we go further. In the Granavolden platform, we say that we want the non-quota emissions to be reduced by at least 45 pst. The goal is for the whole of the cut to happen in Norway, and that is what we are planning to do. The government will come up with a plan for how to meet Norway’s climate commitments when the agreement with the EU on joint fulfilment is now in place. The agreement will enter into force once the agreement has been approved by Everything in Iceland, and we are well in the process of the 2030 Climate Action Survey, which will provide the technical basis for the plan, a plan that will require a realistic and ambitious climate plan for Stortinget. A new EU Commission is expected to accede on 1 December 2019. It appears that the new Commission will have a strong climate and environmental profile. It comes on the basis of an election to the European Parliament in which both the liberal and the green parties strengthened their strength, which naturally pleases me as a liberal and green government council, but above all it will delight future generations in the form of lower greenhouse gas emissions and a more viable ecosystem. The incoming Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen, has announced a green shift, a European Green Deal, to be presented within 100 days and anchored with the Commission's first Vice-President, Frans Timmermans, who is also becoming climate commissioner. The Commission wishes, inter alia, to: strengthening the 2030 climate ambition. A strengthening of the climate target to at least 50 pst. – and preferably up to 55 pst. – has been signaled. The government is working for the EU to increase its 2030 climate target from 40 p.m. to 55 pst. cut in 2030 compared with 1990. As previously mentioned – now it is probably two weeks ago – Prime Minister Erna Solberg sent a letter to the President-in-Office who invited the Prime Minister of the EU to strengthen the climate target to 55 p.m. Cut in 2030. This has also been my message in all climate meetings I have participated in at EU level in the last year. In the letter, the Prime Minister also pointed out that Norway wants to cooperate with the EU on a strengthened climate target and that we are ready to increase our ambitions in line with the EU’s increased ambitions. When a major player such as the EU increases its ambitions, it will be positive for the world, Europe and Norway, and this work towards the EU in order to increase our ambitions together, enough of the most important thing we can do is to do the next year. The government has been ready to report a strengthened objective under the Paris Agreement. In a situation where the EU should not increase its target, the government will return to the Stortinget with proposals for a reinforced objective under the Paris Agreement. There are still forces, including in this room, which are clearly skeptical both for EEA cooperation and the EU. However, even the main opponents of transnational cooperation should see that the EU is the driving force in climate policy both in Europe and in the world, and I am pleased that Norway has now taken further steps into committed climate policy cooperation at European level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e817	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e822	State Council Ola Elvestuen has the overall responsibility on the Norwegian side to preserve the rainforest, and there are few countries in the world that have done more in this area than exactly Norway. This summer we saw that the world's rainforest was literally on fire, and we all know what that means for the world's climate. But at this point Norway chose to conclude a trade agreement with Brazil through Mercosur. We in the Labour Party are in favour of trade, and we are in favour of trade with Brazil, but Norway should – together with other European countries – engage and say that this agreement can only be implemented if there are some basic conditions. We cannot ratify a trade agreement with countries that do not respect the Amazon or the Paris Agreement, said the French Minister for Climate Change on 8 October. My question to Ola Elvestuen is whether he can say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e829	This is a separate agreement that EFTA has concluded with Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay and Argentina. It's not just about Brazil. The content and text are not yet known, but the agreement itself mentions both the Paris Agreement, sustainable agriculture and other environmental conditions. And now we're a little bit in the same situation – the EU signed a similar agreement this summer – but then it's the ratification that's coming, and it's also going to the Stortinget. Otherwise, I would like to say that Norway, unlike other countries, has an agreement on rainforest, also with Brazil – an agreement that Brazil has broken in two areas, both by shutting down the board of the Amazon Fund and by not following up on an active policy to limit deforestation. But it is important to say that we still have conversations with Brazil – also with Germany [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e838	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e843	We do not know the content of the agreement from Stortingen, but there is reason to be critical of what has been the government's work on it. On 22 August, the Minister for Industry, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, said that ‘trade agreements are primarily trade agreements’, and that Norway ‘will not interfere with the specific issue of the Amazon agreement in the negotiations’. And: «This is not a Norwegian theme». Two days later the agreement was signed, and suddenly the climate was a main reason why we should conclude this agreement. I think the climate minister is very passive when he just shows that he expects Brazil to respect this. Will not the climate minister, along with climate ministers from other countries, just commit to using the trade agreement as an entry point to improve the Amazon?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e850	First, the Trade Agreement is the responsibility of the Minister of Industry, and it is an area in which we have our own agreement, which is EFTA, which is not part of the EEA Agreement and the other cooperation that we have with the EU. I have my own cooperation with Germany, which we also have with Brazil and the Amazon Fund. It is not that Norway has a passive attitude towards what is happening in Brazil. On the contrary: we look at the agreement we have, we are in contact with Brazil, and we are in contact with Germany, also to see if it is possible to reach an agreement. As it is now, the funds we have for the Amazon Fund, which are allocated, can be used. But we've frozen the funds that are not allocated, because we're in a situation where deforestation is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e863	When we discussed Norwegian links with the EU climate targets earlier this year, the Centre Party was skeptical and asked for a postponement for Norwegian food production and not least for Norwegian forest use. Then we have reported some targets, a so-called reference path. It was done in March this year. We know that forest is an important part of the solution – the forest is in a way nature’s own catch and storage system, but the forest is also important to replace non-renewable raw materials with renewable raw materials when we are going into a greener society. An assessment and an approval shall be formally made from now on and beyond with regard to this reference track and, as far as we know, a newly established expert group shall start the assessment of the Norwegian and Icelandic reference track in January and February. When can we expect a clarification in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e871	Now this cannot be started until we have reached agreement, when the decisions have been made. There must also be a decision in everything. So this reference path and any comments on it must be in place by the date of entry into force of the agreement, i.e. 1 January 2021. EU countries are at the forefront of this process. There are comments on most countries’ reference paths, except in the case of Malta. Sweden and Latvia have been asked to change their plans, but we believe that what we have submitted, the plan we submit – after looking at what Finland has notified – follows the legislation. It will provide an opportunity for a logging of 16.5 million cubic meters, as it has been put in, which is a significant increase from the crop we have today, which is approximately. $12 million.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e876	I'm sorry I'm a little confused, but when we were in the debate earlier this year, the Council of State was clear that Norway had neither followed Sweden nor Finland. Then it is true that Sweden’s reference path is understated and that Finland has received comments. Now I understand to the Council of State that we are quite close to Finland's model, so here's something that's not entirely in touch. Did I now understand correctly – that we would have to have an approval in place by 2021, that that is what is deadline? It'll be important to put this reference path in place, so we know how we can actually use the forest, put it into use, here in the country. I expect the government to agree with us that we are actually going to use the forest as a climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e883	It is true that we are based on the model Finland has chosen, but we have, of course, also looked at our own assessment, and we believe that we are well within the regulatory framework that is there. We have to report within the same regulatory framework as the other EU countries. It is also true that the revision of the Norwegian and Icelandic reference path will take place during 2020 and will have to be in place before 1 January 2021. When we get a clarification in 2020, there is nothing I can answer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e888	The commitments made by the Paris Agreement on emissions reduction, as both the Council of State and the rest of us are aware, are too weak to achieve the objectives of significantly limiting the climate crisis. As a result, a rather tight run has been made to raise their emission targets by 2030. As I was in my post instead, there is a deadline set by the United Nations for the submission of new and more ambitious climate targets until February 9th next year. My question to the Elvesu State Council is whether Norway will comply with that deadline and whether it will have delivered an enhanced climate target by 9 February or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e895	It is true, as the representative says, that the most important thing to do next year is for all countries to report reinforced targets – reporting so reinforced targets that you can start to see that you are both approaching 2.5 degrees and looking down to 1.5 degrees. We are dealing with the deadlines set by the United Nations, while at the same time complicates the situation, especially in view of the consensus we now have with the EU – it is unlikely that the EU will be ready to report its strengthened ambitions by 2020. But we aim to be able to do so, and then there will be a discussion of what wording we use, because at the same time it will be an ongoing process where we also need to look at what is happening in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e902	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e907	I would like to start by saying that I understand and respect the criticism directed at the EEA Agreement regarding parts of the impact it has on parts of Norwegian working life. I believe that we all collectively in this room should actually make that confession. We should also admit, and that also applies to myself and my own party, that we may not have been sufficiently aware of the negative effects, have not taken it sufficiently seriously. We probably have not managed the space for action enough in our relationship to the agreement and not used it as we should. In this debate, I would like to say that I understand the Joint Undertaking's decision on this basis. But when this is said: there was a parallel exchange now between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and me on these issues, and what I think is quite clear, and which is important to be placed in this debate on the EEA Agreement, it is precisely that the conditions that we have, and with which there are major problems relating to the EEA Agreement and the labour market, are not primarily about the EEA Agreement, but about the resistance of the right parties to the right decisions in this Chamber on a national basis. Therefore, it is of little concern that parts of political life use the arguments against the EEA Agreement in such a way. It is said that the EEA Agreement stands in the way of a good working life in Norway. I don't think that's right. It is possible that the Minister of Foreign Affairs misunderstood my reply, and it may well be that there could be a basis for this, but it would be nice if she went up again later in the debate and clarified whether she considered such decisions to be contrary to the EEA Agreement. I don't mean it. So I'd say this is about so much more. I believe that there is no point in protesting that Norway is totally dependent on international cooperation, because international cooperation is not just money and trade, but it is really issues of international democracy and, in fact, also the fine word international ‘sililation’. And given the major challenges that we know the world is facing, which Europe is facing, international cooperation is our hope for the future. That's my opinion. And I don't think it's possible to have any alternative to that. This is about international trade, yes, but it is also about international solidarity. And the claims we hear that this can be solved on the basis of the independence of the nation states, and that the nation states can deal with this between themselves, I think, is a political illusion. I believe that we should not think so in a small country with its backs to the Ice Sea. That assessment is also based on a different perspective which should call for everyone’s attention. I see that today the French President regrets the US's conduct in international space by cancelling international agreements. Not many people really care about what I think about this, but I use the opportunity to say that I too regret this. And I have noticed that the government has been clear that this is not a line that should be followed: to cancel the Paris Agreement and the disarmament agreements. Gorbachev warns the strongest against it. Therefore, our contribution cannot be that we should rely on what is our most important international agreement, namely the EEA Agreement. We shouldn't go into that class with Trump and other right-wing forces. Finally, once we've heard Tybring-Gjedde's posts here today, I would say that all parties that consider themselves left-wing parties should think about the arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e922	Thank you for the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It allows Stortinget to discuss both the EU and the EEA Agreement. Foreign policy is local policy, but local policy is also foreign policy. Where these surfaces meet, in the meeting with the individual. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was concerned that parliamentarians should establish contacts with our colleagues in Europe. I look forward to that cooperation, because several of those now appointed Commissioners have also been members of the Council of Europe and have had close contact with the Norwegian delegation there. It is an important and exciting but also worrying time in Europe. Norway should and must participate in constructive initiatives that lead to cohesion and security in our part of the world. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned important events, such as the appointment of the new President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. That she, among other things, as former Minister of Defence in Germany, may serve as a symbol of fundamental and important issues of security. Norway’s security depends on a safe and stable Europe. There is a lot going on in our neighbourhoods, which should make us alert, as the Foreign Minister also touched on in his presentation. In August of this year, the INF Agreement was terminated. So one of the most important disarmament agreements after the Cold War is no longer in operation. It bothers me, and that should worry us. In the EU, the consequences of a more troubled world are taken. Closer cooperation in defence policy is increasingly being talked about, and we should be positive about such initiatives. NATO is and will continue to be the carrier of our security. The alliance has contributed to a safe and secure Norway for over 70 years. Although there are positive initiatives in the EU, there is nothing to suggest that NATO will become less relevant due to European security investments. If we look at the long-term EU budget, it is only 27.5 billion. EUR for defence, security and preparedness, against a total budget of 1280 billion for 2021 to 2027. euro. We see that several countries – including our country – are strengthening their defences. It makes the NATO alliance stronger, and closer security cooperation in Europe cannot replace NATO. Norway should contribute to the addition of other measures to NATO and that it is compatible with this important alliance and its membership. It is positive that the government focuses on further developing political dialogue and cooperation with the EU and also on strengthening practical cooperation in Europe. A good example of such cooperation concerns military mobility. The pooling of European countries through PESCO cooperation to ensure that military forces can move more easily across Europe's borders also helps to strengthen not only NATO's defence capabilities but also NATO's credibility. Another positive development concerns the European Intervention Initiative — E12, which is referred to as — and which Norway was addressed now in September this year. This initiative strengthens our contact with key European allies. We should aim to ensure that the E12 also contributes to strengthening Europe's ability to deal with crises over time. Our government is a guarantor that Norway will contribute as constructively as possible to our important international cooperation arenas. There is more to it than anything else in NATO and in the EU. From the opposition we hear attacks on both sides – both NATO and the EU. Some parties want to undermine our membership in the NATO defence alliance, and others want to get us out of the EEA Agreement, which connects us with our European neighbourhood and the European market. Both parts would have far-reaching and very serious consequences for both cities and districts. This would have been particularly evident in the economic field, but we cannot forget the security policy area either. As the Foreign Minister explained, Norway is a reliable and constructive participant in pan-European solutions to ensure the security of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e947	The backbone of today's debate is a very serious matter that lacks parallel in Norwegian history. In a democracy and a rule of law, it is absolutely essential that everyone should be treated properly and in line with the laws and regulations that apply at all times. No matter what you think about those laws and rules, and where they're from, it's absolutely crucial. This is a matter that has had major consequences for many over a long period of time, and it is absolutely essential that the Storting does its part to help clean up the situation – that those who have been affected receive compensation and an unreserved apology, and that the matter be settled as quickly as possible. It is therefore also right, as has been announced earlier today, that the matter should be dealt with in the Grand Duchy and by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, and it is important that the Labour and Social Committee discuss the future of the legislation. What has surprised me so much in this debate on the EU/EEA is that none of the other parties have so far reflected on how we deal with the EU issues in this House. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs reflected in its presentation on the treatment of the social security regulation back in 2011. It didn't happen through a debate in the main hall. This did not happen through a discussion in the Labour and Social Committee or other relevant professional committees. This was done by sending a brief EEA note by e-mail, to which the members of the European Committee had the opportunity to respond by e-mail. This is important: as legislators – as major representatives in the national parliament – we have a responsibility to adopt laws. Through the EEA Agreement, we are about to abdicate from that responsibility. When there is a need to amend Norwegian law as a result of our EEA obligations, it must be clear from the law, not through references, which is very difficult for both those who are required to comply with the law, for those who are required to control, and for the courts. It must be clear both what rights and what obligations result from Norwegian law. I myself have been involved in dealing with issues where a person has changed regulations and practices in Norway before treatment in Stortinget. In other cases, decisions were taken in Stortinget before it was clear what the adaptation texts were, and what was the concrete impact in Norway of the decisions we were going to take. Most EU directives are not even dealt with in plenary in the Grand Duchy, such as the United Kingdom. the social security regulation did not take place in 2011. But among the issues that come to mind, there are often very few who debate what they really mean. Before the summer, we had a case from the Financial Committee where significant counter-conceptions related to what this could mean for Norwegian sovereignty, for the relationship with the Basic Law, in a cost-benefit context and for Norwegian interests, were not commented on either by the responsible State Council or by the other parties. The only person who took the floor in the debate was the undersigned. So we need a completely different and new way of dealing with EU matters. I really hope that the Stortinget – in the extension of the absolutely necessary discussion that the Nav case has brought on the treatment of social security benefits – will also have a debate on how the Stortinget debates and implements our EEA obligations, and that we will have a new practice for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e970	Norway is a small country with a large economy based on exports, and fishing is a good example of this. More than 26 000 meals are exported with Norwegian seafood every minute, and if the fish had been stopped under veterinary control at the EU market border, the fish would soon be lost in value. So we are totally dependent on predictable legislation so that our products can reach markets and consumers quickly and efficiently. Of course, it's not just fish. Other Norwegian businesses also benefit from the lowest possible trade barriers. It's about economic barriers like customs, but it's just as much about regulatory barriers. This is precisely the EEA Agreement because it ensures that Norwegian and foreign companies can compete equally across the European market. It offers great opportunities for Norwegian business and is good for the consumer. Increased competition offers lower prices and better quality. But then it's not that the EEA Agreement only brings benefits. It also involves commitments, and it presents some challenges – not least in terms of labour immigration in a free labour market. There are no agreements that give unilateral advantages to the one party to the agreement. Therefore, it is precisely necessary to weigh the benefits and disadvantages and to use the space for action provided by the contract. Akershus, who is my home country, is among the most exporting states in Norway. It provides a basis for almost 35,000 persons employed. 61 pst. exports go to the Union market and, without an EEA agreement, exports are likely to be much lower. The EEA Agreement also provides for predictability for non-resident owners who will establish and further develop enterprises in Norway. Competition is good, including in the transport sector, among others. for the railway. Competition offers customers a better offer, while making more effective use of taxpayers’ money. We need new actors who can think creatively to develop the train offer in Norway. Monopoly and market dominance lead to stagnation and a more expensive offer. With more competition, the State will halve the running costs of trains over a decade. The aim of the EU rail package is precisely to strengthen rail competitiveness by simplifying and harmonising the rules on cross-border rail transport. It is important to stress that we retain the right of self-determination on the railways, and we will continue to have control in areas that are important to us, including necessary adaptations to Norwegian conditions. Before the Progress Party came into government, we put a lot of work into pressing the red-green government to adjust purchasing power in terms of cash support and child benefit. The current government is still working on this. In Austria, the government has taken the step of introducing purchasing power adjustments on its own. The EU Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against the country in order to introduce discriminatory practices. It is important that the government monitor developments in this matter and promote Norwegian interests in the best possible way. The EEA Agreement is of vital importance for Norwegian business and contributes to competition for the benefit of businesses and consumers. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that the European Union should not be elevated to the Supreme Court over the will of the Grand Duchy. If the Norwegian welfare state is to survive, we are dependent on limiting it to mainly Norwegian citizens and others who live and work in Norway, because Norwegian welfare benefits are based on Norwegian cost levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e986	The EEA Agreement is important for many societal sectors, including research and innovation, which are part of the foundation for migration and for new sustainable jobs in Norway. The EEA Agreement ensures Norway access to one of the world’s largest and most important money sacks to finance research and innovation, namely the EU Framework Programme. Increased internationalisation is one of four cross-cutting objectives of Norwegian research policy. EU research cooperation provides Norwegian research environments and Norwegian enterprises with access to EU funds and excellent research environments across Europe. Today's Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, is around 80 billion. euro. It promotes research and innovation that benefits Norwegian society and business. The programmes are designed to address societal challenges, and — it is important to say — the funds are policy-driven. Participation in the EU Framework Programme is in fact the largest commitment of Norway to international research cooperation, so cooperation with the EU is extensive and important. The main objective of Norway’s research cooperation with the EU is to improve qualitatively our own research and ensure innovation and relevance in Norwegian research and innovation. We cannot do this on our own in Norway. Isolation and protectionism are contrary to the nature of knowledge. Knowledge is global, and that is all, most of it is developing beyond the borders of Norway. In other words, we must not weaken, but increase international cooperation on research and education. It must therefore be clear and clear that the Labour Party believes it is essential that the government also in the future facilitates Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme, not least from 2021 onwards, when Horizon Europe takes over Horizon 2020. It is not only because it opens the door to cooperation with skilled professionals from other countries, and building the necessary knowledge to meet new challenges jointly, but also because Norway is taking part in the development of EU research policy, so that EU priorities also meet Norwegian needs. So I would say: we see an exciting shift in Europe now, where both research and education are given far higher priority than before. Of course, it will increase the benefits of society, increase the competitiveness of those participating, and it will also provide integration, interaction and consensus at a time of unrest and polarisation. Therefore, it is also inspiring to record that the EU will at least double the pot for the Erasmus+ programmes, so that more students, apprentices, students and employees can interact. Erasmus+ contributes today, for example: to support students and employees of Norwegian higher education institutions to travel on exchanges of study and practice in Europe. The EU has several programmes to promote student mobility in the EEA region. We need that. Knowledge is global, and then we have to set ourselves up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e997	I would like to start by commending the Minister of Foreign Affairs once again for bringing more government councils to the presentation debate. I think that is very positive and good for the debate. In fact, the most under-communicated climate action in Norway is that we are part of the European Community. The parties who put the climate at the top of the agenda should also place the EU at the top of the agenda. Since greenhouse gases do not know any national borders, it is important that we make common promises, and since Europe is our community, there should be no doubt for those parties who want a better climate policy, that one must be a member of the European Union. I am therefore pleased that the Green Party, which has been challenged in this Chamber on whether they are in favour of or against Norwegian EU membership, now appears to have taken a step in the right direction by a former MDG Agency taking a seat on the board of the European Movement. I hope that this will lead to the Green Party, like the Right, continuing to repel the EU's power in climate action. There was a bottom-solid support from the Green Party in the debate on the EU's third energy market package, precisely because it is believed that cross-border cooperation is the only thing that leads to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. When I say that the European Community is the most important measure of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and Europe, it is largely because we are part of a common quota system, a system that is now really starting to work. For Norway too, this will be noticed more and more. By reducing allowances and by increasing the cost per tonne of CO2 emitted, the market will respond by transforming its production methods, adopting green solutions and developing new technologies. Of course, the State should help to speed this up. For Norway, it is clear that the government in the government budget next year is proposing new climate and environmental priorities of about 2.2 billion. kr. If you don't get started with greener solutions within the quota system, the price of emissions will make it unprofitable to continue as before. The transition is already under way, and we must have faith that it is these international binding agreements that solve this international problem. There is little help in Norway having a zero-emission society when the US is outside the Paris agreement, China is opening up new coal power plants and millions of people in developing countries lack access to clean energy. The elections to the European Parliament clearly show that the European agenda has been fully adopted. This is what I and Right would like to welcome. It is good that the new President of the European Commission, von der Leyen, wants to increase the EU's ambitions. This is something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was clear that Norway wants to follow up and give its support. Norway plays an important role as a major renewable producer. We also play an important role as a major gas producer for Europe. As long as coal is the alternative, Norwegian gas is an important contributor to the reduction of emissions by the European Community. In my opinion, therefore, more cables need to be deployed abroad, so that the continent can access Norwegian renewable electricity when it does not blow, or when the sun does not shine. Therefore, we must continue to expand new gas pipelines to the continent that can replace coal power. Since 1990, Norway’s emissions have increased by 1.1 pst. Until 2018, the most recent figures are available. This is the lowest since 1995 and 0.9 pst. lower than in 2017. Unlike many other countries, Norway has already decoupled economic growth from growth in greenhouse gas emissions. We still have a long way to go, and the government is taking us in the right direction every year. However, when SV and Red talk about commitment to climate cooperation and international solidarity, they leave it hollow when they do not want to participate in the main European cooperative constellation for a better climate – a constellation that actually reduces emissions. These parties are in a gap between nationalism and international climate cooperation. It's time they fell on the last one. In my view, in a debate on the EU/EEA declaration of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is absolutely necessary to mention those parties who believe that the EU is not the right community to be part of, even if it is this community, together with state-owned national measures, which are taking us and Europe in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1020	It is not possible to have this debate without touching on the matter we received the Minister of Labour's statement on earlier today. Where that trace of, and why it did in that case, the further investigation hopefully gives the answer. But it also raises the question of whether we – we politicians – have really taken on board that through the EEA Agreement we became members of the internal market, with the well-known exceptions for agricultural policy and fisheries policy. The EEA Agreement came into force at the same time as the membership debate. Did our refusal to join become a cloud for the realities of the EEA Agreement? Were we walking around in the belief that we should stand outside of European integration? The reality was that the EEA Agreement meant that we were involved in the development of the internal market, as if it had been accepted for membership of the referendum. As an alternative to the EEA Agreement, the only thing we said no to was representation in the Council and representatives of the European Parliament, i.e. the right to vote, and political co-responsibility for the development of cooperation. I hoped that the thorough analysis of the impact of the EEA Agreement on our social development in the NOU outside and within 2012 would establish a more realistic understanding of what our agreements with the EU involve. But despite a follow-up message, it went quickly in the forgotten book. Perhaps this social security scandal can lead us to recognize that we are part of the internal market and that over the 25 years, development has created a new reality that also affects people's everyday lives. Have we not through 60 years of Nordic cooperation experienced how natural it is to be able to live across borders, where the borders are a line on the map and no obstacle to almost anything? In Nordic cooperation, there seems to be no limit on how far we will go to remove obstacles, including in the field of social security, to make it easier for citizens to move between our countries. The EEA Agreement extends this to include our other European neighbouring countries. The EEA Agreement has developed, in the light of developments in EU cooperation, to gain far more than good market access for our export industries. The EEA is not only an economic community – it is also a legal and rights community and a community of interests. It also confers rights on individuals – not only economic actors. Someone is better than the ones we made ourselves. It's a good and no threat. There are some hundred people out there now who are likely to experience that common European legislation gives them the money they've been unjustly charged, back, and uplifting for a cellar stamp they would never have had. Those who cultivate the illusion that EU cooperation is a major capitalist invented to enrich the capitalists, hopefully have some reason to think about. Here it is the individual in vulnerable situations that is being protected. We have become EEA citizens and need to adjust our mental geography. In many respects, the limit for inna-skjær goes no longer at the Svinesund, but at the Mediterranean Sea. I note that the Labour Policy Spokesman of the Advance Party is speaking in a way that can only be understood in such a way that he believes that it is Nav's interpretation of the rules that should apply. I don't think most people think that such a national bond is necessary or sensible in all contexts. In such cooperation and integration, of course, there are both national and political contradictions of interest. It can produce rules that some of us don't like. The Foreign Minister's statement mentions some of the following: a railway directive involving a competitive outsourcing of our own government has already been implemented; a mobility package involving cabotage, which is challenging for many reasons; a work immigration that can challenge a well-organised working life in several ways; Many of the challenging issues can be met with national policies if we have a government willing to do so. But it's a cross of thought that the possibilities to influence the design of the common regulation would be significantly greater if we had been sitting around the table when the decisions were taken. It is at least to hope that, after this, we will discuss directives and regulations with a different perspective – more thoroughly, as the representative Gielsvik pointed out – than by doing what we do not like, as a referendum on the EEA Agreement. Replacing the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement will solve very few of the problems we need to solve – especially with the 1972 agreement. It's from the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1056	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1061	The global climate objectives are not in the vicinity of being good enough to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement to avoid catastrophic climate change. Extra evil is that we are not on the way to reaching our much too low targets. Norway is no better than others, on the contrary. That is why it is wrong when the Minister of Foreign Affairs says in his statement that Norway is delivering on our climate goals. Now it is two months for the climate agreement to be fulfilled. We know we can't do that. Erna Solberg promised in 2013 that we would strengthen the climate agreement. The fasitator is that we're not close to reaching it. It is good that the government wants the EU to increase its climate ambitions. It's important and necessary. It is good that the Minister for Climate Change has sent a letter to the EU about this. But it would have been more powerful if we actually delivered ourselves – stepped up our own targets and cut faster. This government doesn't. On the contrary, emissions are stationary. We don't set our own goals, and every time a government council in today's government says the word 'climate', there will be civil war in the government, and any climate action has to be compensated with something that zeros out the climate effect. It was good that the foreign minister specifically mentioned the capture and storage of CO 2 as an area where Norway can really go ahead. I think she feels that many people in Europe are curious about this and are following developments in Norway. It is a pity, therefore, that today’s government is refusing, that it has already notified that the decision to invest in this can be postponed for a year. It may seem that this government intends to leave before a decision is taken. That's bad for several reasons. Firstly, we do not have time for new postponements, because the climate crisis is urgent. Secondly, the people working on this — some of the sharpest minds in Norway — who will spend all their time developing this technology, are now just waiting for a decision. If it is exposed, this competence will disappear, and they will work on something else. Thirdly, that's when the train leaves. That's now we have a momentum where Europe is coming with us. I therefore hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs will engage in the matter internally in the government and ensure that we do not get a new postponement. Let me conclude with two words about the trade agreement between Norway and Brazil, through the Mercosur Agreement. It came at the worst possible time, while the world’s rainforest literally stood in fire. The Labour Party is in favour of trade and for the trade agreement with Brazil, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government should, together with other countries, engage precisely in the conclusion that a trade agreement can only be concluded if there are any fundamental conditions. There we see clear statements from many of her European colleagues, but unfortunately it is quiet from Norway, expressed among others. through the inaction we heard from the Minister for Climate and Environment in the change of line. After all, it is a paradox all the time Norway has historically been the country in Europe that has been most committed to the Brazilian rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1083	The representative of Kolberg suggested in his statement that the right-hand parties did not exploit the space for action contained in the EEA Agreement. Then I don't think the representative Kolberg has listened to the foreign minister's statement, nor read the statement. For it is clear that in the field of labour crime, the scope of action contained in the contract is exploited – through national rules, standards, restrictions, the number of contract stages in public procurement, etc. There is a strong need for a stronger integration of European defences, because they are hopelessly fragmented today. For example, where Europe has 178 different main battle systems, it operates with 30. Where Europe has 19 types of tanks, the United States has one. A Europe that is to take greater responsibility for its own security is not just about increasing the defence budget, but about getting more out of the defence budget. Norway is the only third country to be invited into the EU research fund pilot scheme. It is important for the Norwegian defence industry. The Norwegian defence industry is highly technological, is highly international and has a high level of competence. This helps to ensure the framework conditions for the Norwegian defence industry and is important for both the European defence industry and the Norwegian defence industry. The EU has become a more important security policy actor. The EU has instruments that NATO does not have. NATO is a pure military alliance, while the EU has both civil and economic instruments that are important in the development of foreign and security policy in Europe. Therefore, it is so important that Norway uses the networks and access open to Norway in European defence cooperation. The central party often comes back and says that the arenas where Norway chooses to cooperate with the EU on security policy are a challenge for NATO. The government says exactly what NATO Secretary-General says, and which is government policy: this comes in addition to NATO and complements NATO, there is no competitor to NATO. NATO is a purely defence alliance, and of course, the government is 110 percent behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1096	I've been on the Transport and Communications Committee for two years, and I must say I've met this elephant who's been walking around in the room, very many times, and that elephant is, of course, EEA. I have met the constraints set by the EEA Agreement, so often – almost in every case there are EEA restrictions. I agree entirely with Mr Kolberg that there is room for action that has not been exploited, and I can give examples, including to Mr Elves, that it is correct. That's enough to mention some things. Railway package IV of the EU: The railway reform was a kind of pre-warning, and it has always been the best class in this government to adapt in a way to liberalisation – in business, and also in transport – that fits into a right-wing ideology. That's it. We have had all these issues about social dumping, cabotage operations, car combinations in Norway, pay and work conditions for drivers, and these are ugly examples. We could use the space for action far, far more, but we constantly encounter what the government says – no, we don't have room for action in the EEA Agreement. We don't have a room for action, the EEA Agreement puts a bomb on us. That's what we'll hear every single time, on a case-by-case basis. With the Post it was the same – no, it was to be liberalisation. We also had one directive after another, but also there was the EEA that put a stop to its own decisions, for Norwegian policy in this area. Professional transport law, freeing the taxis: there it was exactly the same thing. One meets the same thing again, it's an elephant that's out there and goes there too. A reference to ESA. The taxi industry says – and they prove it in several ways – that it does not, but it was forced through. And the whole time is the umbrella, the shield you have, the EEA agreement, and you cover it. It's not a room for action, it's said. Now I have just submitted a proposal on the cruise industry, to get control there, set requirements, maybe have concession arrangements for the cruise industry in Norway. What do we encounter there? The EEA Elephant is out and going again. For example, when cruise boats land, a whole bunch of foreign buses are waiting for them, and within the tourist segment, there are almost wild-west modes. We don't know who's driving, when they're driving, how they're sleeping, if the driving and rest conditions are met, etc. Denmark has set limits on what ‘temporary’ means: seven days. The Norwegian government? No, they don't want to set limits. They cover themselves behind the EEA that has said that we are not allowed to do that. I think the president understands where I want to go. They have always been the best in the class, and they have met EU rules preferably a few years in advance, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1113	To the representative of Kolberg, who has not yet understood that the representative of Tybring-Gjedde represents the Progress Party: if all the representatives of the four government parties were to say exactly the same thing here, we would not have had to meet up. The point is that I am not the government representative, but the representative of the Progress Party. I want to promote the policy of the Progress Party, but I am obliged to vote for the Granavolden platform. That's it. I could not travel around and hold appeals for the government's policy. It would turn out if I traveled around to our communities and agitated for the government's policy. Then there would have been no sense in having a separate party called the Advance Party; then we could have a common party with all four government parties. I can't. We shouldn't think that way, says the representative of Kolberg about international cooperation. We don't have to think of a nation state. "I think we shouldn't think this way," Kolberg says. Well, the nation state is so much more than the community of values we have in Europe. Yes, Norway has a community of values that we share with European countries, but it is more than that, it is also a cultural community, Kolberg. And the cultural community is, as I tend to say when I give talks, the sum of all that we celebrate on May 17. It's unique to Norway. There is a lot that is unique to Norway. We're actually in charge of protecting that, and you have to be allowed to say that. I gave a talk on this very topic last night. So to the representative Haltbrecken: there were three reasons why we were going to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway: we had a moral responsibility. We were going to drive a little bit of self-discipline, let's whip ourselves a little bit. Because what he went on to say was that we had a responsibility for other countries having poverty, for other countries to experience drought, for other countries to experience fire disasters or floods. Of course, it's the West's fault, and not least Norway's, who's been sitting up here in the high north and had it so well, and released so much greenhouse gas that everyone else gets it bad. That's what Haltbrecken says, and that's why we're going to owe ourselves. Then we're also going to get technology for other countries to use our technology to help themselves. And finally, we're going to get jobs. Well, don't you think business with competition from the outside will create these jobs? It's called capitalism. Then you get competition, and then you get the technology and the innovation you want. Finally, on migration: it is said that the migration crisis cannot be resolved nationally. That is absolutely true, but it cannot be solved at European level, nor can it be solved at global level. It has to be solved in the national states themselves. That is where the challenge lies, including: in population growth and other things. That's where you have to solve it. We do not solve it in Norway, we do not solve it in Europe. Accepting a few hundred thousand to Europe across the EU Member States and EEA countries will solve absolutely nothing – not for those who come here, not for the nation state. In addition, we import conflicts, for example: between the Kurds and the Turks, as we experienced the other day – conflicts we have no responsibility for, but we experienced it in Oslo streets, with riots on Karl Johan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1124	The President would only like to recall that posts should be directed through the President and not directly to representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1129	The representative Wang Soleim from the Right went to the pulpit here instead and made himself a hot figure to build more and more export cables for electricity abroad, so that we can send out even more of our stream as pure raw material to other countries, instead of using it, as we have tradition of in Norway, to build jobs, create values and build good communities throughout our long-term country. In particular, I think that the representatives of the Workers' Party should be aware of what their allies in the Acer case are standing on the floor of the Stortinge. We have dealt with the third energy market package in this Chamber. Now the fourth energy market package is on the move. With the third energy market package, it was already clear that ACER would be empowered to both clarify the cost distribution of land-to-country cables and how the cables were to be used. The fourth energy market package goes further. Statnett is commissioned to develop ten-year network development plans in line with the EU's priority projects, including: The NorthConnect cable is inside. In the event of a conflict, ACER may also enter and require the network development plan drawn up by Statnet to be amended. Overarching Norway over vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policies will be further reinforced if a fourth energy market package is accepted. Therefore, one must provide a clear and clear resistance to it. Instead, one should go the opposite way, as the National Assembly of the Joint Union called for. I have recorded that several people have referred to the national meeting there, but then one should at least refer to what the national meeting specifically agreed. The country meeting called for Norway to exit from the third energy market package adopted by the Stortinget. In addition, one more thing was agreed in the Joint Confederation: it is quite right that they decided to examine the scope for action in the EEA Agreement, but they decided one more thing that the Workers' Party will never decide, so far as the Storting will not accept, namely that an alternative to the EEA Agreement should be explored – because the impact of the EEA Agreement on ordinary workers in Norway, not least in many practical professions, but also too many enterprises, has become such that we need to look at other ways of resolving our relationship with Europe. Yes, we're going to have trade and cooperation, but we should look at alternatives other than the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1140	Time does not allow me to comment on what the representative Geelsvik just said. I'll get back to it on a later occasion. I'm now giving priority to talking about two things. One is the question of space for action. I have not said that the Council of State did not believe that it was possible to use the space for action, as the Elves claimed. I asked if the EEA Agreement stands in the way of what we have proposed here to prevent negative developments in Norwegian working life. That's what I was asking. I have not heard that the Council of State has answered no to that question, or yes to that question, and I interpret it in the sense that here we have a lot to go on. So I'm back to what the representative of Riveres probably doesn't like to hear, namely that it's his own party and his own government policy in this area that creates the distrust of the EEA Agreement in the Norwegian people, that we see all these negative results, as the representative Nävra said so very well. I'm joining that post. If we are to maintain trust in the EEA Agreement in the Norwegian people, we must address these issues, take them and deal with them. We don't, and that's a statement that the right parts don't want to. That's what I think about that side of the case. So to what the representative Tybring-Gjedde says. Yes, of course he represents the Advance Party. I know that, very clearly, well about, to say it like this. But it is a new form of parliamentaryism that prominent representatives of a government party speak against their own government in offensive tones, and that we are in the situation that two councillors have to sit and accept this with a smooth political face, without commenting on it, because they cannot do so, because in a way the whole picture of conflict arises. The council says, "We're on the platform." Well, we're going to see in the main hall that you're going to let it go. I am waiting for the representatives of the government – we have two government councils here – to say what they think about Tybring-Gjedde's way of reasoning. That's what it's all about, the way he argues, and the political philosophy that underlies his argument. It is not the government's policy, I understand that, but I am experiencing this parliamentaryism in this way, and it is quite new in the post-war history of Norway that we have it this way within such a heavy, important and central foreign policy theme as we see here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1150	It was the representatives of August and Nävra who made me take the floor. First to Nävra, who expressed frustration at the EEA Agreement: I would say that there is a lot about the EEA Agreement, especially in the environmental field, that we have reason to see positively. If you are in municipalities in Norway, you work a lot with EEA legislation. We do the same, whether within the framework of dealing with air pollution, where there are common European objectives to be achieved, within the waste policy with common recovery targets underlying it, or in the field of chemicals policy, where there is a common regulatory framework, against which we are working closely, also in order to bring our priorities into line. We have water management, the water regulation, which is based on a common European legislation, and now there is also a separate plastic directive, which we are working on from the Norwegian side as well. In all these areas – and that is certainly more I could mention – we are very central to the regulation design in Europe, of which we should also be part. So right in the environment, there is no doubt that in cooperation with the EU, we have been involved in driving forward developments in many areas. And in terms of the regulatory design and scope of action we can have, with good environmental and climate reasons, it is often accepted within the EEA. It's about how to design the rules that we want to use to a large extent. Then it was to the Aukrust representative, who was actually negative to the climate goals that we have, and thought we were following. Of course we don't. It is true that our emissions in 2018 went down 0.9 pst., and we would like to have them lower. That's the third year they're going down. However, since 1990, many governments have been behind the largest increase in emissions — in Norway, for example, in the petroleum sector, which is different here than elsewhere in Europe. So we have to reduce our emissions, and it has to happen faster. We're going to present a plan where we're going to reduce by at least 45 pst. By 2030, and although we now have a joint implementation with the EU, we, as Sweden and Denmark, can set our own goals. In some areas, we're at the front. There is no doubt that we are leading the development of transport, just looking at the electric car revolution that exists in Norway. We are now also doing well with heavy transport and with our own zero-emission fund. In green shipping, with the green ferries, the river ferries, and also in larger ships, we see this, and in liquid sea winds and carbon capture and storage, Norway is in charge of development in Europe. We will work with the European Union to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1157	There's a lot that could have been said about the representative Geelsvik's last post, but let me just briefly recapitulate it for the sake of memory. The basic elements of Norwegian energy policy are established, and that means, among other things. that we have and will continue to have full power over our energy and power resources and the design of our energy policy. The representative also knows this well, but he does not, of course, allow the chance to continue to deliver a message that he knows is not correct. It is such that neither the EU nor ACER are empowered to force through new projects, and for example: is that the treatment of concessions for wind and hydroelectric power stations and foreign tables is carried out in accordance with the laws adopted by the Stortinget. The representative Kolberg is talking about going into the issues and dealing with them, and yes, that's exactly what the government is doing. Let me give two examples of this with the action space. One is EEA acts which improve workers’ rights in the Norwegian context. I was a little bit into it in my first introduction and could give some examples. One is the rights of employees in the event of transfer of activities, the other is to secure employment contracts, to ensure consultation on health, environment and safety and occupational safety standards and equal treatment for hired workers. There are also areas where the EEA has granted better labour rights in Norway in areas we did not already have it. The opposite situation, where we use the space of action to design our rules, I also mentioned in my presentation. One is the initiative we have taken at European level to bring labour-life crime to life, a theme that I believe both the representative of Kolberg and I are very committed to. But labour crime and the work there are also examples of how we use the EEA Agreement space to introduce national rules and mechanisms. In the case of HMS cards, in the case of an authorisation scheme in the clean-up industry, there is a requirement for pay and working conditions and restrictions on the number of contract stages in public acquisitions. These are concrete examples of how we use the EEA Agreement action space to create these kinds of rules. So the discussion about Christian Tybring-Gjedde's participation and discussion in the debate. I have made it clear that it is not the government's policy, and I have also said through it that the way to argue is not within what is the government platform. Then Christian Tybring-Gedde must defend his vision, and so has he. I just want to say that there was an important point from the representative Svein Roald Hansen in conclusion, namely that the EEA is also the rights of the small man and woman. In the case that we have behind us today, I think it is shown in a good way. As I was in my post: accepting commitments and taking commitments also means that individuals are given rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1170	The representative of Kolberg said in his statement that it is the responsibility of the government parties and their EEA policies that lead to increasing mistrust of the EEA Agreement in the population. That's not right. The connection to the EEA Agreement in the population is strong. One study showed that six out of ten would vote in favour of the EEA Agreement if there were to be a referendum on it. It is true that there is distrust and dissatisfaction in parts of the trade union movement related to the EEA Agreement, but it also looks like the large majority of trade union movements end up doing so. In many areas, the EEA Agreement provides for a minimum of what needs to be in place, and national authorities have considerable scope to organise schemes both more stringent and less stringent than those contained in the EEA Agreement. In the area of labour crime and labour policy: labour policy is still being developed in this country in an interaction between the authorities and the social partners. In addition to the examples mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on enhanced rights in the field of workers, it can be mentioned that the EEA Agreement has strengthened employees' rights in the event of bankruptcy, enhanced the protection of dismissal and the protection of pregnant women and the elderly. These are examples of how labour policy has been designed in such a way that it benefits workers to a greater extent than was originally the case in our national legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1179	The representative Tybring-Gjedde is attacking me because I believe Norway has a moral responsibility to help cut greenhouse gas emissions. I do not know whether the word'moral' is a foreign word for the representative Tybring-Gjedde, but yes, we do. As one of the countries with the highest emissions per capita, which have lived well on fossil energy exports, we have a moral responsibility to contribute to the fight against the climate crisis. The representative, Tybring-Gjedde, further points out what I said about Norway's responsibility to participate in the development of technologies that other countries can also use in the fight against the climate crisis. Indeed, Norway can also contribute to making money, creating jobs and ensuring employment and well-being by developing technology and exporting it to other countries – developing technologies both to cut emissions here and to ensure that other countries will participate in this technology to cut their emissions. Fortunately, I do not believe that the representatives of the government share Tybring-Gjedde's view of morality on this issue or on the development of technology. But maybe that's when, as a representative, it's still hard to believe what there is consensus in science, about the greatest challenge of our time, which is the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1188	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1193	I noticed that once again the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom is trying to give the impression that Norway has full freedom of action over Norwegian energy and industrial policy as part of the EU Energy Union. What have we joined? Well, there's an energy union where one has an ambition for free flow of electricity, like a fifth freedom for the EU, where one has to smooth out the difference in electricity prices, where the competitive advantage we've traditionally had in Norway, with ample access to power at a competitive price, will gradually disappear. That's the nucleus. I then pointed out specifically the provisions contained in the fourth energy market package, which lie among others. in the revised Electricity Directive, relating to what is to come as a further development of this legislation. If you disagree with the understanding of it, you get to bring it up and take it concretely instead of making such general comments that were made here instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1200	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1205	Two things at the end of this debate from my side: I understand that the foreign minister or other representatives of the government cannot go any further in their criticism of the representative Tybring-Gjedde. It will be on his own account, as it is said. But it shows the price it has for a value conservative Right to go into coalition with a right-liberal party that the Progress Party is. That's the price. That's what we get here demonstrated, and I'm not the one who gets in political embarrassment. The second is this with a room of action, like the representative of the Rivers and I had a small exchange of views about here. I think we misunderstand each other a little bit. My point is to say, the next time the Workers' Party proposes tightening and tightening up the Working Environment Act, I expect the Right vote for it and do not use the EEA Agreement as an argument against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1214	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1219	First to the representative Haltbrecken: he talks about his and Norway having a moral responsibility. Norway has contributed enormously globally. We haven't just taken advantage of the world. Our good engineers and others have helped to develop technologies that have made things better in the world and have created a better world. That's not what the Haltbrecken is concerned about, he wants us to whip ourselves because he thinks Norway and other Western countries are responsible for all sorts of natural disasters around the globe. I don't buy that. In addition, there is therefore no total consensus, as the representative Haltbrecken says, there are increasing numbers of scientists asking questions about development. The representative, Kolberg, says that's the price we have to pay. Yes, the price to pay to sit in government, to be one of the parties in government, is that one of the representatives of one of the parties speaks on behalf of the party. I understand that I have the party book in order – Kolberg does like that expression – and I'm talking after the party book.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1226	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1232	I don't understand what it is to whip itself when you want to develop technologies that can secure export revenues, that can ensure reduced greenhouse gas emissions and a better world. And I don't understand what it is to whip itself when you want to create jobs of this technology in a business that cuts emissions, as Norwegian industry has cut its emissions over many years. This is about changing and addressing the challenges facing the world. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde says that there are more and more people who are in doubt about the climate crisis. That's wrong. I started with this in 1990 when the first climate report from the United Nations came. Since then, science has become safer and safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1239	I am not going to extend the debate here, of course, the representative Tybring-Gjedde is extending this debate. I will not avoid being provoked by the representative Tybring-Gjedde. I've told some Progress Party representatives before we're inside the second oil age. We've had an oil age before, and it lasted about the same number of years. Then we caught whales. If Tybring-Gjedde had been shipowners and stood in Sandefjord at the beginning of the 1960s, he would probably have said, "Send out the ships, catch the last whales." The representative had not seen that there had been changes in society, that the conditions were new, that it had to be corrected. Then we didn't have much morals at the end either. We knew which way it went. Still, we almost took the last big whales. It's a pretty interesting comparison in terms of both morals, the management of our resources and how long the time horizon we have to think in here at any time in the Storting. I would also like to stress briefly that everything is not black in the EU. I'll tell the Minister for the Environment. Of course, decisions in the EU are good, including in the environment, which should be lacking. Had we not been a member of the EEA, it is clear that we could have followed the same good decisions that the EU has taken, there is nothing wrong with it, but then we would also have had the opportunity to say no to the decisions we would not take part in. So, at the very end, a little deepening of the space of action that is never exploited, as I see it, in the transport sector. Now we don't have the Minister of Transport here, but I would at least point out to the Minister of Foreign Affairs that there are many, many elements of Norwegian transport policy that could have been tested in terms of our options, the EEA action space. It's enough to mention two or three examples. I mentioned the bus segment and something that is quite serious. Norwegian transport industry and Norwegian transport company are simply out of business due to international competition where there is no control and where there is no proper regulation. The word ‘temporary’ in the cabotage code has not been tested, e.g. Many Norwegian carriers have to restrict or reduce their operations because they have not been able to define that word and have tried out the EEA system. One was so far within it in 2012 or something like that, in the former red-green government, and got a kind of response there that didn't need follow-up, apparently. But Denmark has, and they have made a decision that temporaryity means seven days. There is only one example that the government could have used and tried out the EU system, legislation, more than they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1248	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1270	In the previous debate, Minister for Climate and Environment, Ola Elvesuen, said something about the development of greenhouse gas emissions. In the last three years, they've gone down, and that's a pleasure. The interpellation mentions climate-friendly car fleets and emission-free buses. That's one of the main reasons why we can show so good numbers and not least good development. We have also almost made a green revolution in ferries in Norway. Ferja «Ampere» was clearly an experiment and a development project that has been going on for some years now in terms of both battery package and regularity. It has been exciting to follow this boat. Fortunately, progress has been very good, and we are now building 60 new ferries. What is perhaps even more enjoyable — except for greenhouse gas emissions — is that we build many of these in Norway. I come from Trondheim, and in addition to building the ferries, we have built a heavy battery factory at Siemens in Trondheim, which is to supply these boats with battery boxes. The definition of a speedboat is, for example: That it should go over 30 knots. It is fantastic for the living and working regions of Norway, where we have so much sea around us, some distances into the fjords and not least between the islands and the mainland. The boats have been used quite a lot in Norway. We're actually the third largest user of speedboats all over the world -- it's just the United States and China that have more speedboats than us -- and that means we've solved a lot of mobility in an excellent way. But there have been very large CO2 emissions from these boats, the oldest emits four times more CO2 per passenger kilometre than short-haul aircraft. Now you've probably managed to get some internal combustion engines and technology that might make them release something less, but they're still one of the worst in transport. They emit 150 000 tonnes of CO2 per year. There is not much sound in relation to Norway’s total emissions per year, but this is low-hanging fruit. This is really something we can deal with. We know that electric marine engines are clearly preferable to diesel engines, and the battery capacity is constantly increasing. Some county municipalities were so far aware that they went out and asked the manufacturers of these very polluting speedboats: ‘Do you have any sense of using the new technology and getting them emission-free, but at the same time maintaining the speed and not least the capacity with regard to the number of passengers?’ In September they received answers. It is still on the drawing board, and no boats are built – it should be said. But the boat manufacturers thought it was going well. They are very interested in being involved and developing this further, and what my interpellation is about is getting even more clarity, not least in what support schemes the government can participate in to develop these boat systems so that they can become completely emission-free while fulfilling the important purpose in the areas where they are. In addition, I hear several transport conferences now that it is believed that the speedboat might take over, for example. driving. In my district, it is clear that inward Trondheimsfjorden it is possible to drive a speedboat almost as fast as the car goes, and on the same routes, and here there are many interesting destinations for the speedboat. Aeroplanes may also be able to be replaced. Then the speedboat doesn't get any worse than airplanes. It gets much better than planes, and you can get started much faster with this than with electric planes. Then I hope that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has understood the question of what are the government's future inputs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1285	I thank you for the interpellation. Green shipping is an important part of transforming Norway into a society of the future, with extremely low emissions, and achieving the 2030 climate target. This government aims to halve emissions from domestic shipping and fishing by 2030. This means that we need to stimulate zero and low-emission solutions in all vessel categories. The government has already taken more steps to stimulate the development and deployment of climate-friendly fast boats: we are increasing the climate support of county municipalities so that they can focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in fast boat offers. We have support schemes for the development and realisation of zero and low-emission solutions through Enova, Innovation Norway and others, and we are facilitating the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructure. There are good reasons to bet on climate-friendly speedboats. Traditional speedboats use a lot of fuel and have high emissions. There is a significant potential for cutting emissions by developing zero and low-emission fast boats. Reduction of greenhouse gases from speedboats has therefore been identified as an important measure in the Government’s Green Shipping Action Plan submitted before the summer. In the last year there has been a lot of new knowledge about how such boats can be made more climate friendly. An important step was taken when Trondelag County in 2017 applied for and received 7.5 million. kr in Climate Action Support for a project involving five industrial groups to propose technological solutions for zero-emission speedboats. If these solutions can be realised, significant greenhouse gas emissions will be cut in Norwegian fast boat connections. It is also a large market for fast boats internationally, and this is interesting for Norwegian shipping. Lower emissions and Norwegian industry development go hand in hand here. The use of environmental requirements in public procurement by the State and the counties, in combination with the support of Enova and the Nox Fund of industry, has been effective in stimulating the development of zero- and low-emission ferries. Similarly, it is assumed to be important to provide climate-friendly solutions also within the fast boat segment. About 100 fast boat connections are operated on behalf of county municipalities. The revised national budget for 2019 was therefore allocated 25 million. aid to county councils to stimulate the introduction of zero and low-emission fast boats. The money goes to a temporary investment in the Climate Action scheme in the Environment Directorate. Climate change rate is a support scheme for municipalities and county municipalities that will cut greenhouse gas emissions. For 2019, it's set at 24 million. kr from the Climate Change Scheme to cut emissions from speedboats. The interest is great to be part of this transition. By the end of the deadline for application on 15 October, the Environment Directorate had received 11 applications for a total of 73.4 million. kr. Nine counties, a municipality and a collective have applied for climate support for climate-friendly speedboats. Therefore, the government of the State budget for 2020 proposes to strengthen the temporary climate change rate regime by an additional 80 million. kr. The initiative has been developed over time. Already in 2016, the Ministry of Climate and Environment distributed 20 million. for measures of competence for counties and municipalities wishing to impose environmental requirements on the acquisition of ferries and fast boats. Experience so far, especially in Hordaland and More and Romesdal, suggests that the acquisition of battery-powered ferries has brought additional costs to county municipalities compared to the purchase of conventional ferries. So it has a certain cost to go ahead with new technology, but at the same time it also creates jobs and a strengthened Norwegian maritime industry. There are no experience data to calculate the net additional cost of zero-emission solutions for speedboats. However, overarching business-economic calculations made by Menon in cooperation with TØI and DNV GL indicate that for future fast boat purchases, costs of zero and low emissions will be higher than for the choice of conventional technology. Framework funding for county municipalities provides the sector with room for action to adapt climate action to local conditions. In 2018 it was given 100 million. kr in the free income of county councils in order to strengthen the boat and ferry sector. These funds were given without requiring zero and low emission solutions. This will continue in 2019. The funds are distributed between counties according to the partial cost key for fast boat and ferry. Cost increases in a sector will be absorbed into the income system by the long-term weighting of the sector in the cost key but within a given framework. The Government will take into account cost increases resulting from the requirement for low-emission solutions in ferry and high-speed boat services by county county municipalities to be subject to future revisions of the cost keys of the county income system. This will also promote the introduction of zero and low emission solutions. The cost of zero and low emission solutions is expected to fall over time. In the next few years, there will be one-off costs related to infrastructure development. In scaling up the market for battery packs and other technology components, costs are likely to be reduced. It also applies to the costs related to battery banks in case of berth and grid balancing. In the longer term, the government will therefore consider requiring low- and zero-emission solutions in public ferry and high-speed boat offers where appropriate. The investment in eel ferries has led to the creation of value in Norwegian maritime industry. Contracts for the new environmentally friendly solutions are largely won by Norwegian actors. It builds competence along the entire value chain for green shipping. The IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, has adopted an ambition to halve emissions from international shipping by 2050, compared to 2008. It will provide a growing market for actors capable of delivering technology and solutions for zero and low emissions. Norwegian maritime industry is well equipped to become a significant supplier of this climate change change in global shipping. To drive zero emission solutions for speedboats, there are several things that need to be done at the same time. We have good support schemes in Enova, we have the NOx fund, and in addition, we have established support schemes within the climate rate, with 25 million. SEK this year, 80 million. kr to next year. It is also a broader legislative framework, which deals with green shipping more generally, and we are also looking at how the distribution between the states should be in the future. As the interpellant also points out, this is about reducing emissions in Norway, but it is probably so much about establishing and bringing about a business development based on the climate policy we are pursuing in Norway. During winter, we will present a separate action plan for hydrogen and a hydrogen strategy, which will also be important for this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1325	I have to thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a very offensive response to the fact that these have been good arrangements, which have clearly taken place, because the county councils have used them. And it's perhaps one of the most important things, that you actually make arrangements that get you started on further development, and not least that you get some of the extra costs that are there. We know that there will probably be quite a lot of extra costs in a start-up period. We also know that for those who want to deliver the first boats and develop them almost from scratch – you can almost call it – it requires both good technology and good heads, but also money. Then, of course, is the question of what role these manufacturers should play. They are Norwegian, and then they may have to have a clear promise that they will be able to deliver these boats. My question is also whether it is possible to think even more here in terms of being able to compete with the rest of the world at an early stage, so that you can get a start and a promise that it will be replaced into zero-emission boats also internationally. It's not as simple, and it's not something the Storting can order. But then it's a little up to the minister, considering what conversations you're having, for example. with the EU, in that area, and also with other countries that use fast boats a lot. Then there are these jobs that are around, that can be part of the green shift and not least the green growth, which we are totally dependent on when our oil production is going to escalate somewhat. It is then incredibly important to give a signal both to those areas with a high level of activity in the oil industry now, and not least to have the potential of having the skills and workforce that can do this with boats and that have the technology to implement low-emission, preferably entirely emission-free boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1336	Today we are discussing speedboats, but for the government this is part of a broader commitment to green shipping, for which we presented an action plan for now in June. The action plan presents policies to cut national greenhouse gas emissions by 50 pst. towards 2030. It requires major and rapid conversion, but it is also about strengthening Norwegian maritime industry and contributing to the global technology development needed to achieve international climate goals. I also mentioned the IMO's 2050 targets. We experienced in the work on the action plan a great and enthusiastic commitment from the Norwegian maritime industry. We will build on that, and we will present the plan to produce Norwegian winners in the green shifts of shipping. As also pointed out by the interpellant, this is both an area where we are interested in reducing emissions and an area that is definitely important for developing Norwegian business. We want to stimulate the development of zero and low-emission solutions in all ship categories. Here it could be a positive interaction. The experience with battery-powered ferries may provide a basis for, inter alia: electrification of vessels also in the sea-food industry. Here, the first hydrogen-electric ferry to operate in Rogaland from 2021 will provide valuable experience regarding the possibility of hydrogen operation also in other vessel categories, such as speedboats. The budget bet of 100 million. SEK in 2020 includes 80 million. kr for quick boating. That's what I said. In addition, there is an allocation of 20 million. kr for green fleet renewal of cargo ships under the auspices of the Green Maritime Programme. Renewal of cargo ships will be essential for the development of environmentally friendly freight transport in Norway. Here we will also look at a possible agreement of intent for fleet renewal for cargo ships. We want to follow closely the development of zero and low-emission solutions for shipping, so that we can also further develop the policy. We also introduce a green barometer to see what is the status and technology status within the different vessel categories. Today's pace of conversion shows that scalable zero and low emission solutions have to be developed for several categories of vessels. That is why we have strengthened the climate rate, as I have mentioned. Substantial support is provided from Enova, but also from PILOT-E, to technology development. We have also increased the allocation to the Zero Emissions Fund for next year, which was now established this year. The speedboats need to be adapted to the support system, the regulatory framework, to drive this forward, but I think we are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1349	First, I want to thank Gunnes for raising an incredibly important issue. Our common home country has been inspired by former president of the United States, John F. Kennedy, who not only said that the United States would send people to the moon in the 1960s, but that they would also get them safely back from the moon. County politicians in Trøndelag have set themselves the bold goal that in a few years they will send a zero-emission boat safely over the fjord to Vanvikan, on the other side of Trondheimsfjorden. But not only that, they will also get passengers safely back over the spring – emission-free. And those who have been in Vanvikan know that it can be a little bit of a challenge. So the action plan for fossil-free public transport, which the government presented before the summer, and the action plan for green shipping. Our concern is that these plans are too vague and too little concrete. The fossil-free public transport action plan states that the government should assess requirements for fossil-free public transport. This is a weakening of what the Great One decided a few years ago with Left's support. At that time the government was asked to ensure that, as a general rule, public transport would use low or zero-emission technologies. So we should not just assess this, as it now stands in the Government's action plan on fossil-free public transport. If we look at the Government's Green Shipping Action Plan, we should also consider demanding low- and zero-emission solutions in public ferry and fast boat offers. But in the autumn of 2017, the Stortinget government asked for all new ferries and scheduled boats to use low or zero-emission technology – i.e. not just an assessment – and all these decisions from Stortinget were made on the initiative of SV and Left. We now also see that, upon the transition to electric ferries and after each speedboat, the costs of county municipalities can increase for a period of time. We share the concern expressed by several county councils that increased public support is needed during a transitional period to ensure that this technology is put into use and a good route offer is maintained throughout the country. This will be the subject of proposals for the forthcoming state budget review.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1362	Thank you for the contribution of the representative Lars Haltbrecken. I can complement Lars Haltbrecken. He described the challenges at Trondheim–Vanvikan well, but here one is going to drive a non-emission boat from Trondheim to Kristiansund, and with a couple of charging points it will be okay, because of course they will have to enter both Brekstad and other places to pick up new passengers and get passengers off. So here's clearly the Tree Layer ahead, but there's maybe other states that should be out first, as I understand it, that have even more nearby new bidding rounds in order to be able to demand emission-free boats. That's what's so important now, these signals that we're given from the Storting that we credit to those who are involved in developing that technology and these boats in the future. They are now to have new tenders, and they often last for approx. ten years, and so there's a chance. We hope that Sogn and Fjordane will start using some of these boats as early as 2022, and it will be exciting if we reach it then, and not least what kind of development we get. The left clearly hopes that we will have the same revolution in speedboats that we have had with ferries. Of course, we are going to work to ensure that mobility is good, but not least to create jobs in the environments that already make boats, that they are not lost, but can change and build clean boats. Finally, I take the ferry that goes between Trondheim and Fosen – and there are many other ferries when you're on the Transport Committee – and the passenger experience of taking an electric ferry, it's amazing. It's not just that it doesn't move out of the chimneys anymore, it's quiet and quiet. It's a wonderfully comfortable transport system we've now got with these new, green vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1373	First to the representative Haltbrecken: the government's policy is that public transport should be fossil-free by 2025 and that city buses should also be emission-free or have zero emissions by 2025. This year we have allocated funds from Enova to both Oslo, Bergen, Bodø and Drammen – that is what I think, there may be more. So for speedboats: we established an action plan for green shipping in spring. It is clear that this is being made concrete now, and it does so within all types of vessels. With regard to the question of making demands versus how to execute the acquisition, it is important to do so correctly. We also need to provide an action plan for public acquisitions – climate-friendly public acquisitions – during the spring, because it is important not to make demands in such a way that there is no access to support schemes. If zero emissions are required, no support can be provided. It is therefore important that this be done in such a way as to have access to Enova support, to the NO x fund and to what is now below the climate rate. Then we have to look at how we develop this framework in the future and when you have a technology development that makes it possible to make demands only – because it's mature technology. We must now look at how we are to build up this aid scheme in the future. Quick boats are a segment. I also think it's an important point, as the representative Gunnes also raised, that this is not just about making today's speedboats fossil-free or zero emissions, it's also about facilitating more transport, getting more speedboats and making it easier. Even now we see a lot of places that you get an increase in frequency, and you can get new routes, even before you get it as zero emissions. But it makes it even more important to get that transition to zero emissions. And then that's the last thing: here we lead the world. There are many, whether from states in the United States or elsewhere, who come to Norway to see the evolution we have on zero-emission ferries. Of course, we'll see exactly the same attention to zero-emission speedboats. The technology development and the economic development we can get out of this is enormous, and we need to build it up below. We are also playing internationally in other areas. We have received support for an assistance programme called Green Voyage 2050 – also from green shipping towards developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1389	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over. So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1412	The size is then ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 was a presentation by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1426	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters held at the Storting meeting on 24 October 2019 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Case No. 3 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-05.ana.ud278e1495	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
