ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e39	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Trine Skei Grande, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Olug Vervik Bollestad will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e48	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. It is now more urgent than ever to facilitate the conversion of Norwegian business – cutting greenhouse gas emissions and developing safe and forward-looking jobs across the country. At a time when, more than ever, the Minister of Economic Affairs needs instruments that ensure adaptability, we see that the opposite is happening. We are experiencing a close-up of a Minister of Economic Affairs who is being tapped for instruments, and a change of pace that is gradually weakening. In our opinion, much more needs to be done than what is actually being done to facilitate a stronger commitment to climate-friendly jobs, which also ensures increased export revenue in the future. The Minister of Industry talks a lot about investing in the development of new environmental technologies, but is now weakening the Eco-Technology system, which is just about to help develop – yes: environmental technologies. The Minister of Industry is talking about investing in the development of industry in knowledge environments around the country, but weakens the focus on the business clusters as important conversion engines around the country. There is talk of investing in industry, while the Minister of Industry now breaks down Siva, which plays an important role in facilitating industry and business throughout the country. There is talk of simplification, but the Minister of Industry chooses to weaken the Brønn Island Health registers, which are central to the simplification of business. So the question is: why is the government weakening important measures for Norwegian business at a time when it is just going to contribute to climate-friendly growth and conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e65	The very premise for the question is wrong, both if you look at the proposal of next year's government budget, and if you look at what the government and the majority who are behind this government have done since we got into the government offices in 2013. Only in industrial research and development have we almost doubled the budgets over these years. Research efforts have also increased. A lot of it's focused on private business. Let me just go through the concrete things that the representative Terje Aasland asked about. It is true that for the cluster programme there is a small reduction in the budget of the year. That means that just next year's budget won't bring much money to many new clusters, but we're still going to keep and further develop the clusters we have. In the case of Katapult, it's quite natural to have a little pause of thought because they and Siva are discussing what kind of catapults we're going to have in the future. This has been one of the big bets of the government, and we're going to keep doing that. To the claim that we have weakened the Brønnøsund registers: it can be seen in both budget development and year-on-year development that we have not done so. The number of employees in the Brønnøsund Registers has been around the site for the last three years. The budgets of the Brønn Island Registers have increased, among others: with large investments of up to 1 billion. kr to a new digital register processing system. For environmental technologies, there is a small reduction, in terms of the means of price conversion, and that is because the scheme has worked very well. The very small reduction is probably not going to have a big impact. So it's convenient, of course, for the representative of Aasland that he doesn't mention any of the large and powerful increases. He mentions, for example: not the increases that have come to Enova in recent years, one of the most important climate instruments we have – not just under my budget – and Nysnø, which are strongly strengthened in both the revised budget and next year’s budget and become one of the most important tools we have just changed green.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e84	One might almost wonder if the Minister of Industry has a good dialogue with the Norwegian business community. During the consultation in the nutrition committee, we heard from both LO and NHO about a lost year in the conversion work for Norwegian business. They were deeply concerned that an unenforced action at a time when one actually needs it. One of the most effective instruments, which the Minister of Industry was also involved in, helping companies to convert, is the Eco-Technology Scheme, but it stands on the ground resting: no increase from 2019 to 2020. Already in August this year, applications had been received for more than 200 million. kr more than what the scheme can cover. Does the Minister of Industry see that the eco-technology system is too small and too weak to meet the needs of industry to support, or reduce risks, in the case of completely necessary conversions? If so, what will the Minister of Industry do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e93	Once again, it's convenient, of course, to take out a little bit of the larger picture. Looking at the environmental technology system in recent years, it has been strongly strengthened during this government. It is under this government, not least by this majority, that green economic development, shifted green, with private business on hand, has really gained momentum – and not only through the strong strengthening of the environmental technology system, Enova, the creation of Nysnø, to mention some measures. In a tight budget, everyone must give priority. It's one of my most important jobs as a government council. And then, even if it's a review of the environmental technology system – it's quite right: there's more people asking for money than there's money for – you also have to look at the evaluation of the quality of the projects. So my assessment was – and it still stands by – that a small decrease, i.e. the fact that the means of price conversion are not provided is fully sound. It will not be at the expense of the quality of the projects that receive support, nor will it remove the sharp increase that has been in the scheme in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e100	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e105	Lack of opportunities in the Eco-Technology Scheme may not be perceived as a ‘small’ issue for Norwegian business, but on the contrary as a major issue. But I'm going to switch to another topic, which is probably so big: carbon capture and storage could be a very important technology for the Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian industry in transition; it will be the very basis for the industrial entrance to the low-carbon society. In the autumn, the government has once again suggested delays in the decision on the capture, transport and storage of CO 2 from industrial plants in Norway. In the throne speech, the government announced that they might not bring a case to Stortinget until 2021. This is one year later than expected, and for the carbon capture projects at Klemetsrud here in Oslo and at Norcem's factory in Porskön, uncertainty is created, yes, much more uncertainty than necessary. I am aware that the carbon capture projects are the responsibility of the Minister for Oil and Energy, but carbon capture is undoubtedly one of the most important industrial policy measures in our time, so what will the Minister for Industry do to satisfy the industry's clear expectation that final clarification of carbon capture must take place as envisaged in the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e117	It's a little special that you try to create uncertainty around something there's actually a broad consensus about in the Storting. Carbon capture and storage is a major, important climate project. It's a risky project. That's why it's also quite right that the state goes in with large, large amounts – so here we're talking about 15-20 billion, if I don't remember completely wrong. It is also the case that this is a major and important industrial project, and because this project is large and complicated, it is important to make all the assessments in the course of the process thoroughly and properly. And the clear message from the government – with the state budget for 2020 – is that carbon capture and storage, the projects that are there, continue at full speed in the future. Then there is a question of being able to get the evaluations by 2020, or must have them by early 2021, but that question has to be addressed to the oil and energy minister, who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e122	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e127	I realized that I did not get an answer to my question, but I choose to ask the next question to another important government council that has to do with business interests. I choose to let my next question go to the Minister of Agriculture. The working party believes that we need to invest more in both food production and forestry. These are industries that create important jobs across the country, while providing us with many exciting opportunities for the transition to the low-carbon society. However, in this area too, there is a lack of action by the government. A key issue is where the climate fund, which has long been called for by industry and the Storting, is going to form the basis for development, migration and emission reductions. As the Bonde team wrote in its consultation opinion on the state budget: a climate fund makes the farmer better equipped to meet the climate challenges of the future. In addition, a climate fund will provide incentives for necessary investments to reduce agricultural climate change emissions, which we have agreed to do with the government. Why has the Council of State not complied with this and established a climate fund for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e139	The President would like only a mild reminder that follow-up questions should be directly related to the main issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e144	I am asking questions about the conversion power in Norwegian agriculture. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e149	Now I'll give the Council of State a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e154	I want to start by saying that if there are any people who have shown conversion when it comes to the green shift in recent years, it is Norwegian agriculture. I also believe that the representative of Aasland agrees with me. In addition, we have concluded an agreement with agriculture on the means to be used by agriculture itself in order to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. One has also put a great deal of emphasis on forestry and its strategy to be part of the green shift. The representative of Aasland asks me directly about a fund. We have chosen to give priority to the other things first, but that does not mean that we do not see opportunities for – in the long term – a fund for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e161	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e166	I fully agree with what the Minister of Agriculture says about Norwegian agriculture having shown a great deal of changeability and willingness. They can also show good results, but they still need significant conversion to bring greenhouse gas emissions into Norwegian agriculture. This fund is therefore very important, as both organisations and the Stortinget have pointed out a number of times. My question is: When will the Council of State bring in a climate fund for agriculture, so that agriculture can make the necessary adjustments to reduce emissions with greater force?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e173	Among the agreements with agriculture, we have the agricultural agreements, where we use the agreement and agreements to have the means to achieve the objectives we set for Norwegian agriculture. I intend to use the agricultural settlement to also achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves. We'll do it together with the agricultural organizations. The current agricultural settlement also shows that we are starting the green shift by changing the arrangements on the farm. It will also be part of the future. One may also discuss a fund in those negotiations – not here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e180	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e185	I'm going to try to stay within the theme of the main question – precisely conversion. Then I will ask the next follow-up question to the Minister of Industry, because in the throne we heard that the government would make Norway a laboratory for blue industries and green traffic at sea. I can say welcome after. For the Workers' Party, Norwegian seafarers are a major and important resource, especially during a transition period in which marine industries are to play a greater and more important role. Security in migration is important. For the Workers' Party, Norwegian wage and working conditions are in principle correct – whether they are on land, on board a rig or on board a ship operating in Norwegian waters and on a Norwegian base – especially at a time when the change is taking place. Two reports now state that it is fully possible to introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions as a requirement. When the Council of State is about to draw up a new maritime sector survey report that will certainly deal with migration, will the Council of State – as the Labour Party will – ensure that Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters become the general rule and not the exception?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e192	I cannot answer that, because we have still not worked through this report, it has also been out for consultation. But I can say a little bit about how we're going to follow it up. Otherwise, the report shows that it is legally possible, but there are also some downsides, it's very clear on the report, a little depending on how to do this. What we intend to do is follow up in close and close cooperation with the social partners, both the trade unions, maritime organisations and the maritime employers' organisations. And then we'll see how far we're going to get straight. Although it was a theme in the languages of the throne – it must be noted – it is not the first time the government has talked about this. This has been on the government's agenda many times before, and that is a reason why we have promised not only our own maritime strategy, but also a revised maritime strategy – and before that the actual maritime strategy. So whether it's welcome after or not: at least it's okay to have the government not just talking through the throne.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e201	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e207	I am pleased that the Minister of Industry says that he will assess the issue related to the Storing Communication on the development of the maritime sector. I hope that I can have the Council of State with me in thinking that the security of migration – when the entire Norwegian economy has to be converted into a low-carbon society and where the sea is to play a more important role – is an important factor in bringing workers into the transition period to be made. There is then no doubt that — especially in relation to those on board ships who are required to carry out a mission on a Norwegian base or in Norwegian waters — that safety is challenged by the fact that it is much easier to put Norwegian seafarers ashore in order to take on board a cheaper foreign labour force. I therefore ask the Council of State: does the Council of State agree that it is an objective that a Norwegian marine industry should be developed on the basis of Norwegian wage and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e212	I agree that it is a goal that we should keep Norwegian seafarers. The reason for this is not only that it is a measure to have seafarers as such, but for the maritime cluster in Norway it is also having active seafarers who can contribute with it that in a little fine and perhaps a little technocratic language is often called real competence, important to the cluster. This government and this majority have from the very beginning had it as a starting point. With this government and this majority, the employment scheme, what was previously called the net pay scheme, was legislated. The net pay system for seafarers has been strengthened in ways that were difficult for seafarers’ organisations, as well as the employers’ side, to be heard under the previous government. It's the most important tool we have to ensure that we keep Norwegian seafarers. The fact that it has now been extended to NIS ships means that we have got several Norwegian seafarers there. Moreover, government policy makes several ships flying the flag of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e219	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e224	In the view of the Centre Party, the forest and forest industries are an important part of the conversion of Norwegian business. We have an amazing forest resource, where a range of goods can be produced. This is good migration policy, it is good value creation policy, and it is not least good climate policy. But we see a relatively weak bet from the government in this field. It may seem to be one of the most busy areas of forest policy protection and forestry policy. So my question is, why does the government not want to invest more in the construction and development of a Norwegian forest industry, and will the Council take an initiative to give us a strong commitment to the forest industry in Norway? Or is it that the protection forces are the ones who are the leaders in defining what policies the government has in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e231	I would like to follow up the strong commitment of this government and this majority. Not many years have passed since there was a separate bioeconomy strategy. It is not just about resources in the sea, as the previous question was about — or it was about seafarers, who are probably slightly different — but also about the Norwegian forest industry to the greatest extent. What happened then was that the government earmarked money for bioeconomy measures in concrete terms, and then the instrumentation at Innovation Norway and the Research Council itself took its own initiative – after the government had presented its strategy and been dealt with – to look through its mechanisms to strengthen the bioeconomy. It's the Norwegian forest industry in a nutshell. We're listening to the recordings that are coming. One of the most common questions I received for a long time from the Center Party in the Questionnaire was about Saugbruk's and CO 2 compensation for them. The government is listening. It is an important enterprise – an important forestry enterprise – and now they have solved their problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e241	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e246	On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget adopted a ban on fur nutrition in Norway before the summer. This is contrary to commercial freedom. This challenges private property law. This is the active release of workspaces from Norway. The central party shall not be liable for the liquidation itself of the Christian People's Party. The primary responsibility for the ban is on the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. On the other hand, what the Minister of Agriculture does not get away from is the responsibility for the compensation scheme for the farmers who have been involved. Councillor Vervik Bollestad has had a suggestion on the phone. The fact that the compensation scheme is ready after the hearing is answered: the scheme will lead to economic ruin for many of the nearly 200 families that will be affected. The system is so weak that it will crush the economic future of many families. People are scared, people get sick, people lie sleepless. I understand that, because the proposal for a compensation scheme that has been presented is a recipe for economic ruin. The basic problem is that the Council of State does not assume that the farmers who will be affected will be compensated for the financial loss they suffer. State Council Bollestad takes as its starting point the book value of the fur farm – book value of installations that actually have market value million, while the book value may be around NOK 10000 or DKK 100000. The common thing in Norway is that people get to replace the full loss when the state comes and takes something from them. That's not how it's revealed in this case. Saved values over generations are lost, people are going to sit back with millions of money, and more are likely to go bankrupt. Is the Council of State Bollestad satisfied with the compensation scheme put forward, or does the Council of State see that it is about to crush the economic future of innocent families around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e259	The compensation scheme submitted contains several elements. One is the book value, which is quite right, not a rate value, but an book value. The starting point for this was to take care of those who had large recent investments, which is why a book value was recorded. So it's based on a tispe supplement, as one calls it, that's going to address the other challenges for those who, as the representative says, have paid down or have a value on the farm that's written down. In addition, time has been put in, i.e. until 2025, full compensation has been added for cleaning, and a conversion has been introduced. In this decision, which we think is demanding, the government has also assumed that we are not taking the property from people, but we are giving a restriction of use to the property. That's the starting point for this compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e268	It is obvious that the Council of State, even though she now says this is a good arrangement, realizes that this is a very bad arrangement. For in the letter to Stortinget, the Council of State writes that the Ministry has asked Norwegian Agricultural Advisory to pay particular attention to the need for follow-up of fur farmers and, where appropriate, to provide emergency assistance. When a government realizes that they have a policy that is so bad and so bad to people that it is necessary to provide crisis assistance, then it is a recognition that there is someone other than the government who has to pay the price of politics to the government. We would like to offer crisis aid to people who are the victims of natural disasters, disease outbreaks, etc. I can't think of any example of a government having to introduce crisis aid against its own policies. Then my question is, does the Council of State really think that this system is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e277	As a government council, I believe that no matter what scheme you had come with, it would have been a challenge for the industry. Now one has tried to create a system that will be as fair as possible, but one will never get there that everyone experiences it as fair. That is why we have also put an anchor in this for those who feel that they are coming out unwarranted – where the County is going to go in and assess the individual just for resuscitation. I just think it should be lacking that we should not take care of people and people's health in this, and one has asked for calculations that provide the best basis. That is the background of the answer given.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e284	There will be follow-up questions. First, Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e290	In this case, it is important to remember that it is not the fur-bonded seams that have settled in this situation; it is actually the government that has decided to take away from them their work of life, and that will not now pay full compensation for it. So one has thrown overboard a principle of nutrition and private property. In the council's own home municipality lives Bjørn Kjetil Frafjord. Before the ban, his farm was taxed 15 million. kr. After the ban, it is taxed at 7 million. NOK, but he gets compensation for $3 million. kr. So he loses $4 million. kr. The question is whether the council believes that Bjørn Kjetil Frafjord and the other fur farmers are not telling the truth when they say that they are not getting full compensation, or whether it is such that the government has not taken seriously this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e297	State Council Bollestad has never said that the farmers are not telling the truth. The challenge is, in fact, that as the Council of State, I cannot go into individual matters and assess this, because I have no background for assessing individuals, but I take, of course, seriously the descriptions that come. When the prescription comes, someone will have to look at those who come out unreasonablely. They will then consider that one should be able to compensate where one considers that this is unreasonable in view of the assessment on the basis of which they have received it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e302	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e307	This is about people and families. Since the 2011 national meeting, the Labour Party has been committed to managed liquidation. For us, it is also important that people are treated in a fair and proper way when national Parliaments make such big and dramatic decisions as this. What's hard for me to understand is why it's so far inside when we know, through so many consultation answers, that people are being taken from great values. It is not just a matter of coming to the Storting and saying that one realizes that this is too weak, when one has now received a large number of examples that book value is completely unreasonable as a principle. It's going to be the same thing as if people lose their house, you should be compensated for the value of the equation instead of the real value of the house. Does the Council agree that there are more people now being deprived of great values? And has the government observed that this is going to be significant debt and large losses for many?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e316	Now it's like we've got 160 hearing replies. I agree with the representative that this is about people. That is why we need to review these answers and make the regulation that has not yet been completed. We haven't had it out for consultation because it was finished in advance. One will refer to the hearing replies available, and then look at the regulation in relation to the hearing replies. But it is the Stortinget who has decided how the compensation scheme should be. I have been loyal to the Storting decision, made a proposal for a regulation and sent it to the hearing. That's the starting point for the last hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e321	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e326	It's a completely wrong interpretation of the debate that was in Stortinget before the summer. Then there were representatives from almost most parties who spoke out and said that the compensation and compensation should be proper, and it was the government that laid the foundation of the case that was then pending. So it's an unreasonable and most eye-catching explanation. It is the government itself, with Erna Solberg at the head, who now takes great values from people. I am particularly surprised when the government has first laid too bad a foundation and then owes it to representatives in this room. This means that you have a very delicate relationship with people who do business in the country. I want to challenge the Council of State with the following questions: when you add up to such random treatment, does that mean that people in other groups of workers and industries can expect the same random treatment from the government in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e335	I think it is wrong to say that it has been a random treatment. The first hearing, which was before New Year 2018/2019, has been carried out in depth. The regulation has been consulted again after improving what was done in 2018, and the regulation has been used as a basis for the next consultation. It hasn't been random. It has been based on a desire to do this in the best possible way. There is no full compensation the discussion has been about. It has been a matter of compensation because there is a ban on the husbandry of fur animals. That has been the starting point for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e340	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e345	My question goes to Minister of Industry Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, who I noticed said that the government was in the midst of a ‘thinking break’ in business policy. I'll come back to that. Today, we have a government that does not meet its 2020 climate targets. The Prime Minister has admitted that. And it's completely unclear whether one will come to a goal in 2030 – or in 2021, 2022 and 2023. It's all in blue. We are about to get on the wrong side of history in the fight against climate change. If one looks at the long lines of Norwegian policy, this happens at the same time as the government is unable to convert Norwegian industry and industry into green. If we look at the SSB's speech, speak in national accounts, we see that the growth in investment in industry is directly linked to deliveries to the petroleum industry. The next couple of years, this activity is going to go down. Otherwise, for industry, the level of investment is exactly the same – no change there. So we're about to get on the wrong side. In the budget hearings that the Stortinget is currently conducting in all committees, there is a strong impression from industry and industry that there is no real change. There's a general amazement about the government's paralysis of action. There is a reason to fear that Norway's unique potential for building industry and industry in areas such as green shipping, sea winds, CCS and the bio-industry is being wasted, because the government does not have a plan or a policy that works. So back to the pause of thought: when is the government done thinking, and ready to act?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e358	There's no general pause of thought. It was linked to an entirely concrete system, namely Katapult, which is under Siva. I think a lot, but I can do two things at the same time: I can both think and act. I have thought many times that the representative Knag Fylkesnes and I really should switch lists of companies we visit, because they clearly say two very different things, and they have two very different realities. To give an example: Norwegian power-processing industry. When I visit the Norwegian power-processing industry, they tell me about an industry that has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. since 1990. They're telling us about continuous conversion. They tell about how it's engagement now, among other things. through Process21, to look at the whole value chain and how to make it greener. They talk about how the Eco-Technology Scheme, which was a theme earlier today, has been doubled by this majority, how Enova contributes, and how Innovation Norway and the Research Council and the strong commitment both to nutrient research and innovation and to research in general. So, of course, we have to do even more. But I do not agree with the description that our climate targets for 2030 and 2050 are completely blue. What I agree with is that all the tools are not yet in place. But if you look at what's going on now, for example: The EU's quota system, if you look at how you have decoupled economic growth from increased greenhouse gas emissions, and that greenhouse gas emissions have fallen in recent years, if you look at what happens to each sector that is going to have climate commitments developed together with the sectors, if you look at what happens on green shipping, where the government has now strengthened its efforts further, and will do so in 2020, if you look at how violent technological developments are: there is every reason to say that we are going to get it difficult, we know that it is going to be very challenging when we are going to turn the whole of our economy, but it is possible to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e368	I'd like to switch lists with the Council of State. It is not that exciting things are not happening in Norwegian industry and industry – it is completely open. It's very interesting – every day. We're visiting all around the country and meeting these actors. But the big picture is very simple: there is no green shift. It's an astounding and a fear, a concern, that's spreading into ever-increasing layers of Norwegian industries and industries and in the Norwegian population. The large numbers point to the fact that we're actually not in the goal of the climate measurement, and it's completely unclear – there's no plan – how to get back on track, no sign of a plane on it. So one sees that one has been so dependent on oil as we have been, something we're going to move out of, and that we're all a few about -- there's actually the opposite. We're becoming increasingly oil dependent. And not even low-hanging fruits will the government fund. The hearing was attended by the Environmental Technology Forum. They can have short-term climates of 2 million tonnes through simple measures, but the government is not willing to finance it. Why is there still a thought pause where a person is unwilling to take a risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e377	I would recommend that you think at the same time as you act. I think that's a good way to do it. You don't have to pause for that reason, there's no reason. The description of Knag Fylkesnes is that there is no green change. How does the representative of Knag Fylkesnes and the Socialist Left believe that the Norwegian energy-intensive industry, which is one of the major greenhouse gas industries, has cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. since 1990? Is it because they're just thinking that now we're going to continue as before, or is it because they're in the middle of a green shift? How does the representative Knag Fylkesnes think Norway is one of the world leaders in developing zero-emission ships, boats, vessels? Is it because we've leaned back and thought that everything should go on like before, or is it because we're in the middle of a green shift? Why does the representative Knag Fylkesnes think that the government has set up Nysnø and added capital to it, and that it will continue in the years that come to invest in climate technology? Why has Enova just given support to the offshore wind project to Equinor? Why has the environmental technology system doubled since this government and the majority came?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e384	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e389	Yes, there was a government council with many questions and a few answers I would say! I can answer some of them then, because we've changed the position here. I would like to remind you that the emissions cut that happened in industry, which happened over a long time, came as a result of a progressive environmental policy from the left. It was a policy that the right-hand side was actually against, that has led us in the situation we are today. The low-emission shipping was a result of vigorous efforts by the red-green people of the West, who made demands, against the will of the government, against government policy, and got started the first eleven-way operations, which have now formed the starting point for a new spring for Norwegian shipping. – There has been a breach in the policy of this party of the Council of States, not because of it. And then it's Nysnø. We have to call it a snowflake. It has to be scaled up to 20 billion. NOK, but today it's only SEK 1.4 billion. kr. We'll be over to CCS. The last thing we've heard is that the government will postpone that decision to 2021. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e402	I had some rhetorical questions, as it's called, but I'm not going to do it if it creates confusion about who answers and who asks. Take green shipping as an example; not only has the government provided a separate action plan for green shipping, but this is also an area reinforced by over 100 million. in 2020. So I fully agree that it's not the government alone who's doing this. There are also offensive state politicians, and not least the industry itself. My problem concerns the description that nothing green replaces. I suspect that this is due to one very simple thing, and it is that for the Socialist Left Party, green shifts mean bad news for the oil and gas industries. That's exactly where we disagree. I fully agree that oil and gas industries must undergo a major shift – they must also be part of what is in practice a low-carbon society with 90-95 pst. Cut by 2050 – but I believe that they are also part of the green climate society. There's an SV disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e413	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e418	I don't understand what kind of disunity we're talking about here. If Norway is to cope with the green shift, we are totally dependent on the expertise currently attached to the petroleum industry being used on the new areas. It's a kind of microcosm, the green shift for Norway. It is therefore a real concern for the Norwegian industry that it does not. Take your sea wind projects - they don't see anything at Stord. One is really concerned that the competence that is building on CCS is going to disappear because the government is not willing to take on new risks that make us use that competence in new areas. Even within the oil industry, there is concern that the government is doing too little to take care of the competence that is right there today. In the case of action plans, strategies, etc. - The government has had so many of them that it is quite unlikely - there will be no more action for that reason. It has only contributed to the big gypsy and the amazement that one sees in the Norwegian industry. And one more thing: research. There has been a real decline in GDP when it is due to research in the last three years [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e425	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e430	If we look at green shipping as an example again: it is not that an action plan that is words on a paper – digital – creates action itself, but it is because the government follows up with both demands and budgetary means that this is action. When the Socialist Left Party describes it as if there is no green shift, it is just traveling around Norway and looking at how the green shift actually takes place – in the yard, in the maritime industry, in the Norwegian industry. So everyone there, and also the government knows very well, that the pace has to up. We have to do this faster, because industries or businesses that cannot be part of a low-carbon society do not have the right to life. Then I fully agree that the competence of oil and gas must be used in new areas and alternative energy. I just fundamentally disagree that a good strategy is to turn it off by political decision. Then the competence is not used for anything else, then it disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e437	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e442	SV has never suggested – and I believe the Council of State knows – turning anything off, but we want a strategy for a transition from one economy to another. So we're left with the question, what's the green shift? The green shift is when we've turned our economy into a green economy, where we're less oil dependent, and where our revenues are not dependent on sectors that are part of the problem. And not least, the green shift is when we're on our way to Paris, when we're actually on our way to achieving our measurements. That's what's in the blue with this government here, and there have been some embarrassing moments for us to read these action plans and strategies from the government. It's not like we've created an action plan, so it's action force. I'm actually going to say the opposite, that it's been covering for lack of action. But back to the question of research, because in many contexts, the Council of State has said that it is decisive for the green shift, we have to bet on research. Why, then, does the research part go down? Why is the research going down in absolute dollars in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e450	It doesn't go into absolute dollars. What the representative refers to is a real downfall. This year it is mainly due to a so-called technical cut in the Research Council. The Research Council has, very simply said, quite a lot of means that, what to say, are being pushed into the future, which are comin' projects, which they have on book. Taking a technical cut at the point where it is clarified in the budget paper that it is a one-off cut – otherwise within the Ministry of Knowledge, the Minister of Higher Education – will not have any impact on research efforts. It's explicit, clear and clear, and that's the main reason for the little real downfall. But the representative cannot take out a very small part of the larger picture. The big picture is that with this government, research efforts have increased by 12 billion. kr. Nutritional R & D has almost doubled over our period. We have gone from a break in research policy and knowledge policy to a strong commitment that appears year after year, and where for the first time we are over 1 pst. of GDP consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e455	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e460	I have agreed with the rhetoric of the Council of State that research is entirely decisive if we are to get over the gap we are now in. Research is absolutely crucial if one is to cope with the big green shift, it is open, and not least the nutrition FOU, innovation, etc. Should one come across that canyon, one has to bet. But that's what we can't find any evidence of anywhere in the government itself in the context of the state budget. Here, a national bill is presented where there is actually no sign of green shifts, either in emissions or in changes in economics. So I can finish the question where I start: Will it come – next year or the year after – ambitious plans for how to get to the big green shift of Norway, or are we still there that climate targets are the most unclear, and we are still going to be equally oil dependent? Would you like something new?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e469	The answer to that is yes, with one exclamation mark – could have had five, but it's not necessary, it's just stealing to have more exclamation marks. That's the alert, too. I can only take an example: this is not my responsibility again, but the CO2 tax. It is announced that the CO2 tax will be escalated. It is now becoming sector-neutral – an important tool. At the same time, it has been announced that, for example: Nysnø, which is under my responsibility, shall be stepped up. It is also announced that emission plans will be drawn up for different sectors, inter alia. the agricultural sector, which has now come a long way. All of this, together with an offensive industrial policy, together with the environmental technology system, together with the state being in and stimulating both the small risk projects that businesses across Norway are taking, and the large projects, such as carbon capture and storage, are the ones that are going to take us over to the green shift. If the question is whether the government is done with this now, the answer to that obviously is no, but we're well started.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e480	Åsunn Lyngedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e485	My question also goes to the Minister of Industry, because it is about the transition to the green shift. We see in very many areas that the government is failing to adopt and implement policies that transform Norwegian business from carbon dependence. Some of the last thing we saw there was the SSB's trading balance sheet figure. We are just as dependent on the revenue from oil and gas as we were when the government of Solberg came to rudder. We also see that greenhouse gas emissions rose last year, despite the knowledge from among others. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is giving increased cause for concern for each month that is going on. You've had cause for concern for a long time, and we need action. My question to the Minister of Industry will be: How many tonnes of CO2 will Norway cut as a result of the Minister of Industry's budget proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e496	We don't calculate how many tons exactly the food budget is going to cut. It is also because very many of the instruments in my portfolio are linked to business and private business. But the climate ambitions of Norway are very clear: cut at 40 pst. by 2030. The government has also said that we should strengthen climate ambitions, we should also strengthen them towards 2050, and private business is crucial to achieve this. So two words about the trade balance. On the one hand, a negative trade balance is not just bad. It's e.g. good that Norwegian consumers can buy reasonable goods from other countries. That makes sense. So we're not Trump, we don't think any bad trade deficit is automatically bad. At the same time, it is a real problem for Norway — difficult to solve — big shots to turn, that we are too oil addict. We're too dependent on one big business. The solution is not to turn that industry off, but to stimulate growth in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e503	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e508	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. We've got volunteers all over the country. They're different, and they mirror the people who choose to use them. Common to them is that they're good for people who want to help others, they're good for people who need a little help and contact in everyday life, and they're good for communities. The volunteers are needed. In its eagerness to streamline, the government has now thrown its eyes at the volunteer centres. Worst things happen to people living in small and vulnerable districts, where the offers may be few. Kväfjord municipality in Troms receives a reduction of its subsidy from NOK 414 000 to NOK 102 000. Iveland, in my own region, Agder, is receiving a reduction of the grant of approx. NOK 290,000. The working party has both warned against this and proposed that the special grant to the centres be retained. In a letter dated 10 September 2019, the Council of State states that it is too early to conclude what effect the transfer of responsibility from the State to the municipalities has. No, it's not. This proposal will affect people in the districts who have a expectation that the municipalities will manage safely. The council's own municipality of residence, Overhalla, gets a significant cut, and neither do people around the volunteer centres have more faith in future for volunteering, we have to believe localism. Does not the Council of State see the importance of volunteering that evolves around the centres of the village and the city, or is there something she has understood that volunteering has not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e519	Well, the government has understood the importance of volunteering. That's why we're strengthening it as massive as we do in the state budget, with the greatest increase in a very long time. We see that volunteers are so important that we've almost doubled the grant to them. It appears that volunteer centres are so important that we have increased by 100 new volunteer centres in Norway in a few years. This is built out as a massive network across our country, in the countryside and in the city. Traditionally, we have seen that it is the small municipalities that are best in terms of volunteering. It is the task of a government and a Council of State to follow up the decisions that the Storting actually makes, and this decision was taken long before I became a Council of State. The decision was taken in 2014, following the morning announcement of the municipal reform, which stipulated that the responsibility for volunteering should be transferred to the municipalities and that part of the grant should be done. The Workers' Party also supported that we should do so, with its decisions attached to the community reform. Some people say that we don't add content to the reforms where we want to move power closer to people, but every time we discuss a theme where we want to move power closer to people, you're against it. It is my job to follow up the decisions made in Stortinget. This decision was therefore linked to the Report. Art. No. 14 for 2014–2015, on the municipal reform, which wanted to shift more power down to the municipalities. It was also said that we had to use this period to strengthen the system and get more centers, and we have done so. We've almost doubled it, and we've got 100 new centers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e528	Thanks for the answer. It's a little strange that the government then chooses to change policy in an area that worries about volunteering. They are not concerned about how much money the municipalities get; they are concerned about how much volunteer agencies get. Powerful local economy makes statutory tasks budget winners. The government's cut policy towards people in vulnerable situations affects many, and municipalities have to take greater responsibility. Many of those affected get good help from volunteers. There are few statutory tasks in the field of volunteering and culture. I think the fear of not being able to help people who need other people and activities in their everyday lives is one of the reasons why people are so committed to this change. Does the Council of State agree that the fear lies behind the great commitment we see to the changes associated with the volunteer agencies, which the government signals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e538	I understand that the Workers' Party is now turning towards what they have previously meant, both in terms of supporting the conversion we are now talking about, and in terms of shifting more power and responsibility down to the municipalities, in view of the municipal reform we have adopted. The working party cannot claim that we have cut this when we have almost doubled it. Nor can the Labour Party claim that when hundreds of new volunteer centres are set up, we weaken the volunteer centres. Some honesty has to be kept in the argument. What is the discussion is whether this should be part of what we transfer by power and responsibility to the municipalities, and whether the municipalities should be responsible for volunteering policy. That was what the Workers' Party meant in 2014, but they no longer believe it. That's okay enough, but I have to follow up the decisions that have been made. So I hope that the Storting will help find good solutions and make sure that we have the best possible volunteer policy around. But it's not the small municipalities that have the worst volunteer. It's not in the small municipalities that you spend fewer hours on volunteering. It's the big municipalities that have a big challenge to get a better volunteer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e547	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e552	I record that the Council of State is committed to maintaining a mix of volunteer centres and municipal operations. That is precisely the point of the policy that the government promotes that the volunteer centres are afraid to disappear when the municipalities get this into their operating budgets and no longer receive earmarked grants to establish more volunteer centres. That's what's done to get so many volunteer centers. It seems as if the Council of State is completely ignoring it. The working party has opposed the scheme. In the nations earlier this fall – I hear the Council of State repeats it now – it seemed that the Council of State was not quite comfortable with the decision. Can I interpret it so that the Council of State has changed its mind? In that case, it's very good news. Then they will receive the Workers' Party's support, for that transfer we have been against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e559	Let me get the quotes from Innst. 333 S for 2014-2015: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left, believe that municipalities should be given greater and more overall responsibility in the areas of volunteering, prevention and public health’. Let me underline that the Labour Party, as the largest party, is first in the sequence. This is the basis for the decision on the transfer of this responsibility in the context of the municipal reform. It's honest to turn around, dear Workers' Party, but you can't come back and say that we don't follow the decisions. There is a broad majority in Stortinget that says that voluntary responsibility should be transferred to the municipalities. When it turns out that you don't like the consequences, it's okay to turn around, but don't say you haven't been for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e571	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e576	I'm not going to say that I get confused in this hall, because here we're going to have a cold head and a warm heart, but it sounds like the council is talking a little bit with two tongues. On the one hand, I feel that the Council of State almost regrets that, as Minister of Culture, she has to follow the decision of the Stortinget in 2014. On the other hand, she accuses the Workers' Party of having voted against it. I'm not getting this all the way to vote. The working party has opposed the transfer of operating grants to the volunteer centres to the municipalities. It has been the Labour Party's policy. It is also important that this has a regional policy consistency. What does the Council of State think will be the effects of the economic policy we see now? Now the largest municipalities, which may have the largest offer, get more money for volunteering, while the smallest municipalities – Iveland and Kväfjord, for example, as I mentioned in my listing – where it is perhaps most difficult to get alternative offers that are not organised by the volunteer centres, get less.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e583	First of all, no, as I read from the setting, the Workers' Party was to make this change. Secondly, there is no basis for saying that volunteering and the number of volunteering centres in cities are larger than in the countryside. It is good to think that small municipalities should be distributed in the case of volunteer centres. The third thing I think is strange is that you have absolutely no faith that the municipalities are going to want to have this offer. It seems that if you expect the municipalities to escape, they will not give priority to this in the future, then this will be guaranteed to be cut. The interesting thing is that if there is something that really characterizes volunteer centres, versus any other volunteering in Norway, it is that the volunteer centres have been established by the municipalities. It's the municipalities that account for half the revenues of the volunteer agencies. It's the municipalities that wanted to have it. There are local politicians who have burned for this offer to be there – but you have no faith that when the municipalities decide everything, they will continue to want that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e592	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e597	I would like to ask the Council of State if she has spoken to the volunteers in Norway about this. We had a budget hearing on Monday, and I can tell the Council of State – if she has not already been informed about it – that there was massive criticism of the scheme from the voluntary field. They believe that this is a bad arrangement, and the Labour Party agrees with them. The very framework around the volunteer centres will be confused with this. Governments will disappear, and volunteering will be able to enter the municipalities as a municipal operation where the volunteers will help to support what is municipal tasks. Thus, part of the voluntary involvement, which has characterized the volunteer centres, may disappear. This is the concern of volunteering in Norway. It came through a massive criticism. Hasn't the Council of State heard the criticism that we heard during the budget hearing on Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e604	It is a little strange to say that I do not know the volunteer agencies, as I have been in charge of Norwegian volunteer centres for several years. I agreed to build this system. I was number two, after Odd Einar Dørum, and put on the board for it. I directed FRISAM, the Voluntary Cooperation Body, for a long time. Before I became a staging representative, this was one of the most important things I worked on. It is obvious that we have had a development that has been dramatic in a positive direction, with a strengthening of the volunteer centres around the country. But I have to follow up the decision that was made in the Stortinget in 2014, with the support of the Workers' Party, that we have to ensure that more of the responsibility for volunteering and more of the responsibility in municipal policy are shifted downwards, closer to people. In this way, we have to – for dollars – transfer the money that we have almost doubled to each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e611	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e617	I am very pleased, and I think it is very good that the Council of State has been involved in voluntary work. Then it's a little strange that the Council of State, which is responsible for this, doesn't listen better to what volunteer actually says today: they're worried about development. Freedom Norway is concerned, and volunteer centres are deeply concerned about that development. So we see that the cuts have to be transferred to an already tight local economy. Who is the one who gets the help of the volunteer? Well, sometimes those affected by the government's second cut - unemployed, people with chronic diseases - are used to use the voluntary involvement of other residents in the municipality to get meaningful working days. And that's what you now think is at stake, that the opportunity that's going to be equal in all the municipalities, now, first of all, is going to be different between the municipalities, and it's going to affect people who need activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e622	No matter how many times the representative says we don't think this is important, we've doubled it and increased it by 100 cents. Then you can't say that we don't think it's important. Well, we think this is a very important work. What is also important for a Council of State is to deal with the decisions taken in this process, to sail if the decisions were taken long before I became the Council of State and was given responsibility for the field. I follow up on what the Labour Party asked me to do, namely to shift volunteering policy and responsibility in voluntary policy, public health policy and the other important policy areas down to the municipalities. If it is then that moving power down to the municipalities is not so important in Stortinget anymore, the responsibility must lie there in order to be able to participate in developing it. I have to follow-up the decision to raise this issue – it's the job of a councillor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e629	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e634	That is good, but as far as I remember, at least the Left – and still is – was one of the drivers of this proposal. Governments talk a lot about the past, what has happened and what has been done, and it's based on a different system than the one that's now being introduced by the government. Therefore, I cannot understand: if the Council of State is so concerned with the voluntary sector and the centres of volunteering, which I believe the Council of State is, on the one hand, I can understand that the argument is that she is just following the decision of the Grand Council, because of course one should do so as the Council of State, but I cannot understand why the Council of State does not take an initiative to listen more to the voluntary organisations themselves – create a policy and present to the Stortinget a continuation that is more in line with what they think is right and which is also the Labour Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e639	It is quite okay that the Workers' Party has turned this around. You can turn in all areas of the desire to move power closer to people, but you can't at the same time criticise that the community reform doesn't have content. Nor can it be criticised that the regional reform does not come into play if each group believes that it is best to have its own post on the state budget, governed by each department. I want to spread power in society, I want to be part of a process where we move power closer to people, where we move decisions closer to people, where we move priorities closer to people. Then we also sometimes have to dry up in some debates about where the right tipping point is when it comes to responsibility for this. I believe that volunteering is really one of the areas where the municipalities should have had much more power, where they should have had access to the money, where they should have prioritised what is important in their municipality. It is on the basis, and the Labour Party also agreed in 2014, that this was an important basis for the municipal reform, but we meet with the feeling that each interest is best when the state rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e644	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e649	I just need to say that a lot of the criticism that emerged at the hearing, as it sounds like the Council of State has not heard, was that this is a large-scale centralization measure, because when we transfer the calculation base to the population, the large municipalities will get much more money than the small municipalities. And that means that this is a devastation of regional policy for the volunteering of the small towns. I was at a seminar with Norway's rural women's teams the other day, and they were also very concerned about this. People engaged in volunteering in small municipalities say that this is devastating for the framework of volunteering in small municipalities. Then it's about thinking about future: how are we going to organise this in the future? The Labour Party believes that the solution the government has is not good. I just want to say that if the Council of State chooses to turn around, we support it, and we're going to cheer it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e654	It is important to listen to the voices out there, both as a magnificence representative and as a politician in the government. But it is also important to listen to those who are not coming to the hearing. It's also important to listen to those who don't have strong organizations and organized activity behind them, those who might have had an extra volunteer centre, those who might have had extra facilities for volunteering, who don't have anyone to pay the ticket to Oslo to sit in this hearing. I am, as Minister of Volunteering, concerned that we should facilitate the full range of volunteers, including those who do not have strong interest groups behind them who can come here to the Storting with their presentation. That is why we have doubled the support for this field. It is quite obvious that we can go back to the level that it was when the Workers' Party was running, on the number of volunteer centres and on the support of each volunteer centre, but I think that many of those who are currently working in volunteering are getting pretty scared.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e659	Åslaug Sem Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e664	We in the Center Party are busy transferring tasks to the new regions and municipalities, but we are very busy not destroying schemes that work well, and listening to people. Fortunately, the Minister of Agriculture turned around in a very parallel case, in the matter of putting the grant to the district veterinarians into the municipal framework. Then she listened to people and turned around in that matter. This thing is very parallel, very similar to it. Now it turns out that there are actually specific budget cuts for 256 municipalities, which will get less money for the volunteer agencies if this is established. Media all over the country tells us about the x number of volunteers who now think that it's just going to be the hook on the door. In the Minister of Culture's own newspaper, Namdalsavias, where she comes from, they wonder why she can't listen to people from the country who say anything about this, because this is basically just the big cities that benefit from. Will the Minister be as responsive and wise as his colleague in the Ministry of Agriculture and turn around in this important matter and take the fight for volunteering and volunteering into the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e673	The fight I've taken for the volunteer agencies is that I've increased by hundreds of volunteer centres and almost doubled the grants to them, so that there's also room to make the kind of arrangements that we're now doing. But here the Center Party goes into the usual trap, that you listen to the interests that just represent everything that exists, while there are very many people you don't hear. There are very many people who will never be able to use a volunteer, or have access to that type of place, and who never come here to the Storting and tell their story. It's also part of this. So my call is that we want to find good solutions here, but to think that everything is always best when the state rules it, I don't. I want to move power closer to people, I want to move decisions closer to people. And it's obvious that in volunteering, public health work and prevention – all that was stated in the comment that the Workers' Party was on with the government parties in order to have a strengthened community reform, where we give responsibility downwards – I hope that in the future we can find good solutions, where we can also move power downwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e683	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e688	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. Throughout the summer the grazing industry and the domestic industry have suffered some severe predatory attacks. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture has traveled around to meet the farmers. Cursed farmers in Grong, in Verdal and in Rendalen experience the loss of animals, and the cause is a predatory policy that is out of control, and a predatory game management that does not have the ability to do anything about the problems. This summer we have e.g. had wolf in grazing areas in several municipalities in Trøndelag, in Sogn and Fjordane and in Rendalen, areas where the Stortinget has decided that it should not be wolf at all. Here it's supposed to be sheep, it's supposed to be domestic and wild. Yet nothing is done to get rid of wolves from these areas. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture has been around and promised the farmers that the number of wolves will go down to the stock target. At a seminar in Elverum, the Secretary of State said that there are too many wolves in Norway and that the government's aim is to bring us down to the stock target. This government has repeatedly tried the predatory game subjects, and that means that we are now above the stock target for wolves – almost twice as high as the stock target. Then I have to say that to people who are desperate, also about losing grazing animals, one should be careful to promise things you can't keep. Nor should the Ministry of Agriculture be faced with a situation where they become a sort of lightning diver for the government's real predatory policy. It won't be taking people seriously. So when the State Secretary is now out and promises to go down to the stockpiles of wolves, my question to the Minister of Agriculture is: How will the Council of State help the government to fulfill that promise and get down to the stockpiles of wolves in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e703	I want to start with a slightly different entry. We have a shared objective of predators. We have a deal in this house about how to manage the challenge that is. I myself, two weeks ago, have been in Northern Ireland and met reindeer owners who have lost a large percentage of their calves, precisely because one has experienced that they have been taken from predators. Then it's important that we, as a community, manage to have both the two tanks in our head, both at large and in the government. That was the basis for the shared objective of predatory policies that we actually have. Based on that, we've said that there should be grazing priority areas, and there should be areas that are used for game. So we also have to, when you haven't taken out what applies to e.g. wolf, take the discussion and bring down that number, because it is challenging in grazing priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e710	The State Secretary made clear promises, not that we should just take out wolves in grazing priority areas, but that we should go down to the stock target. I record that the Council of State is unable to respond to how she should contribute to it in government. The situation is simply a little too serious for one to travel around and throw blues in the eyes of people and create false hopes. With such a serious situation, the Ministry of Agriculture must not travel around the district of Norway and give the impression that one will do something else — and more — if one does not intend to do so. The same Secretary of State said to the Nations on Monday this week that the government's proposal in the budget that bear should now be given priority in grazing areas should not be implemented. In other words, the budget of the Ministry of Climate Change in this area is not to be implemented. That means that something has to be done about that. How have the Ministry of Agriculture and the Council of State planned to overestimate what is in the budget proposal from the Ministry of Climate Change for the expansion of today's breeding areas? How is that error to be corrected in the Ministry of Climate Change's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e717	As the Council of State, I am dealing with the government's predatory policy and the agreement in Stortinget, and the agreement in Stortinget is that a priority should be given to grazing priority areas. This means that approx. 55 pst. in fact, the Norwegian area per today is a priority for predators. The second, 44 pst., is for livestock – or grazing priority. Then we have to follow the decision in Stortinget. I, as the State Council of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, will follow the agreement, will do what is government policy, namely to follow the predatory settlement in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e722	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e727	Yes, that's exactly what I'm asking: what is the government's predatory policy now? Is it the one from the Ministry of Climate Change, who in the budget proposal states that female bears should have priority in grazing areas as well, or is it the one from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, who says to the Nations that what is proposed in the Ministry of Climate Change budget is wrong and has to be corrected? Is it true that the Ministry of Climate Change's wish that one should review the predatory game subjects each year and thus get a cloudy wolf population far beyond the stock target, or is it the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture's wish to bring the wolf population down to the stock target? I'm asking just that: what is the government's predatory policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e732	As the question refers to, predatory animal management is within the constitutional territory of the Minister for Climate and Environment, but it is also linked to agricultural interests, so I leave...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e737	Here are the concrete statements of the Ministry of Agriculture that I can...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e742	... continue to answer that question to State Council Vervik Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e747	I am perfectly aware that this is under another state council. At the same time, there is a shared objective in this which is also within my department. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is part of finding solutions to the challenges that exist, precisely because it is a shared objective. In the case of the draft budget itself for the Minister for Climate Change, the representative must take it with the Council of State. I am dealing with government policy, and government policy has a shared objective. The government's policy is to follow the agreement made in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e755	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e760	I have read the Ministry of Climate Change's budget in this area, and the draft budget does not say that it is the Ministry of Climate Change's proposal that female bears should have priority in grazing areas, it is said that the government is using it. Then the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture goes out and says the opposite in the newspapers and in the Norwegian public. That's when I ask myself: is it that this error in the Climate Ministry's budget will be corrected in the Storting, or is it so that the government here speaks with two tongues and throws bladders in the eyes of grazing users, who have a difficult enough situation without having to experience it in addition?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e767	I want to start by saying that it's something I don't do like the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, it's throwing blues in people's eyes. We in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food want to contribute to our being able to pursue the shared objective of predatory game, a goal that is certainly also in this house, a goal that is a balanced agreement precisely in order to be able to take care of both grazing priority areas and at the same time predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e772	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e777	In the north-eastern valley, Hedmark and the whole of the Inland region, there has been great frustration — and frustration — that Erna Solberg has refused to follow up the democratic decision taken in the Grand Duchy in view of the stockpiles of wolves and that the population has become twice as large as the national Parliament has decided to be. What I want to say is good for the Minister of Agriculture: in a written question I asked the Minister of Agriculture, there is a fact, which has not been met, that the population is now twice as large as it should be. It gives us the first basis to act in line with what the Great One has decided. It is worrying that this action has been absent for so long, because people are frustrated and are beginning to give up hope that a democratic decision will be fulfilled. That is why I think the Council of State can now have the opportunity to simply answer yes to whether the stock targets of winter will now be followed up as it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e784	I've said many times that we want to fulfill our part of the deal. That is why I also answer written questions – because there is a huge challenge in the industry. One meets it every day in the industry, and then we also have to follow up the stock targets. I'm going to do from my point of view and my job what I can do to make the stocks so sustainable that it doesn't also affect the industries that we want, namely grazing-based industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e789	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e794	It was unfortunately a little unclear answer, but we'll see what comes to winter. I want to ask a little more fundamental question. Outside of the Storting there have been twice marks to comply with a democratic decision. It has been very rare in Norwegian history, but it has happened in connection with this matter. Then it's really not that hard to fulfill what Stortinget has decided – it's just doing the job. Does the Council of State see any change since the Christian People's Party entered the government? Or is it still such that Erna Solberg will refuse to follow up the clear goal set, so that we can now get down to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e801	The government's policy is to follow the agreement in Stortinget. Then we have to do it based on the assumptions that lie, and I, as the Council of State, have now replied that I will do what is in my power, to follow this up from my point of view. But the government is clear that we're dealing with the decision of big business and the deal in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e806	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e811	That was still the same slightly diffuse answer. If we go back to the situation, that both sheep, pure and dog have been caught in the Rendalen lately, it's a feeling that the whole government and government politicians, who are used as a concept, are failing a community. It's pretty serious when it happens. Then I wonder if the Council of State takes on the responsibility of actually getting the message that here a clear decision has been made, a democratic decision, and that it is up to Norwegian policy to decide how the future of the grazing industry, for example. The rendalen shall be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e817	Yes, as the Council of State, I assume that responsibility. And yes, I'm going to do what's in my power to ensure also that there is going to be an active agriculture in Rendalen in particular, that has had the biggest challenge in recent months.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e822	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e827	After listening to this round, which has been quite confusing about who is speaking on behalf of the government and not, I have really only one question, and that is: When the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture in the future travels around the country and makes his statement on predatory policy, can one reason be that he is speaking on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e832	I think that when we have a State Secretary who has now met them – meet farmers, meet politicians, meet the administration of these municipalities – it's just to take care of the population. At the same time, it's also important to get a recording. The State Secretary never travels around on his own — he travels around, of course, on behalf of the department he represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e837	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e851	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directly responsible. Question 9, from the representative Bengt Fasterøne to the Minister for Transport, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Arne Nävra to the Minister for Transport, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Elin Tvete to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food to direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e869	‘There are a number of contentious allegations in the government’s justification for granting a loan framework to New Oslo University Hospital. It is claimed, inter alia, that the project is economically sustainable, but the quality assurance of the project concludes that there is ‘significant uncertainty related to both investment costs and operational economic gains’. How can the Council of State support a loan of this magnitude when the uncertainty is so great?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e876	It is precisely this type of question that a decision is taken when the government recommends the Storting to join this loan allocation. It is that Health South-East has overall responsibility for the economy of the region, and when applying for loans for major projects, they must demonstrate that the region can cope with increased costs as a result of the project. In this assessment, it is important to ensure the quality of the design. The external quality assurance of the design phase shall ensure that the project has been identified and analysed according to the available leadership. The external quality assurance indicates that, at their discretion, the project was now ready to continue into the next phase, namely the pre-projecting phase. In the pre-project, the project will be detailed. It is true that the external quality assurance body notes that there is significant uncertainty about both investment costs and operational gains. However, an important additional information in the conclusion is that sustainability at the regional health business level seems robust, but it does not mention the representative Toppe in his question, and I have not registered that the representative mentions it in other contexts either. In all investment projects, risks relate to both investment costs and operational economic gains. It can never be undermined. The impact is increased by the size of the project and the role of external quality assurance bodies is to point this out. At the same time, the project will be continued into the pre-projecting phase and, at this stage, investment costs and impacts will be detailed. The risk of a project will decrease with the degree of design. There is no better place in the country to organise activities in a way that offers so great opportunities for operational efficiency improvement than that provided by this project at Oslo University Hospital. Better building conditions and the collection of services will do just that. Health South-East has not assumed that Oslo University Hospitals should operate as efficiently as the very best, but has nevertheless assumed that significant operational efficiency improvements can be made. I am concerned that Oslo University Hospital gets new construction, better capacity and ability to assemble functions. Due to the size and complexity of the project, tight financial management must be implemented throughout the project to keep economic development under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e889	Another contentious claim is that the government claims in the government budget, that user selections have been clear that they support the plans for new OYS, and that they think it is an expression of the quality of patients expected to provide. The problem is that this is not true. The OUS user selection has decided that they do not support the Gaustad extension. The Oslo Department of FFO, Norway's largest user organisation for users and patients, has also taken decisions against the project. We know that the economy and the bear force are fragile, but the support of professionals and users is apparently even more fragile, so why does the government write falsely about user support, and my council believes that he knows better than user selections about what benefits patients and users the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e894	That's not right. The Health South-East User Committee has joined this project. The representative of Toppe knows that very well. This means that the representative Toppe does not listen to the users in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e899	I'm talking about the users of OUS. I notice that the Council of State does not actually answer such an important question, when there are direct errors in the state budget. I want to make a third statement that is controversial. Last year, the planning and building kit in Oslo announced a high or very high regulatory risk at the hospital plans in Gaustad because it is to be built high, too dense and too close to nature and worthy of protection. Afterwards, there are several adjustments, leading to even greater space needs, including: increase patient uptake and multiple births. The question is how can the government propose to approve the loan request for a project with such a high regulatory risk? And how does my Council of State say that one should accommodate the new extensions without even increasing the regulatory risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e906	This has been well assessed by Health South-East, and they also have good dialogue with the City Council in Oslo on these issues. It is at that time that the loan application is to be promoted and dealt with by the government, but it is not the case when a person deals with these types of projects that a waiter until the regulatory work is completed. We believe that what is planned is fully within what is possible to regulate on that plot. We are also concerned that the new regional hospital of Health South-East in Gaustad should not become too large, simply because some of these functions will be resolved in future in the new hospitals otherwise in Health South-East. So it's not a point to build the largest possible hospital in Gaustad, but I think there's a good place for both current and future needs in Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e918	«Akershus University Hospital is built to serve 340 000 inhabitants, but is currently responsible for more than 530,000. In the plans for New Oslo University Hospital, only one of three Groruddalen districts is to be transferred from Aarhus to Aker Hospital after the first stage. We don't know when any stage 2 is over. According to the Medical Association, the tasks of Aarhus will increase by up to 60 percent by 2035. Does not the government see the need to relieve Aarhus and build a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen after the first stage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e931	The Regional Development Plan for Health South-East presents projections for Akershus Hospital Area where the number of days of lay is expected to increase by 21 pst. in somatic health services in 2035 – compared to 2017. The population of Akershu University Hospitals has increased, but it is important to take into account that a large proportion of patients are treated in the hospitals in Oslo. This particularly applies to the districts of Alna, Grorud and Stovner. Health South-East has assessed the need for increased capacity at Oslo University Hospital and Akershu University Hospital in connection with the planning of Aker and Gaustad. A step-by-step build-up of Aker Hospital capacity is planned. In stage 1, Aker hospitals shall be extended to take over local hospital responsibilities for the districts of Alna and Bjerke and two other parts of Oslo. It has been decided that the extension of stage 1 will also include the transfer of local health responsibilities for mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised treatment for several urban areas — including Grorud and Stovner. The somatic service offer to Grorud and Stovner is to be transferred to Aker Hospital in stage 2. With such a step-by-step extension, the hospital can assume the population responsibility of Akershu University Hospital as Aarhus needs this capacity to meet the offer of the increased population in Akershus. Stage 1 is planned to be completed by 2030/2031. Stage 2 is planned to be completed by 2035. Health South-East will assess the dimensioning in stage 2 from new projections of population growth. In addition to the expansions at Oslo University Hospital, which will have an impact on Akershu University Hospital, the possibility of using vacant capacity and areas at Kongsvinger Hospital, the relocation of existing premises and also the rental of premises at Nordbyhagen is considered. Akershu University Hospital also has plans for a new building for mental health protection, and they will start work on new radiation and somatic building. We need to learn from what happened when Akershu University Hospital was put into service in 2008. One important lesson is that the development of Aker is to take place in the course of population development, so that we avoid building a new large hospital that drains human resources from the rest of the country – or that we are left with too much capacity on Ahus. I am pleased that Health South-East prioritises the development of Aker for mental health protection and drug treatment for the Groruddalen districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e948	I have to say that the Council of State does not at all address the capacity challenges that are at Ahus today. The situation at Ahus is serious, and the medical association both at Ahus and for Akershus has called an alarm. In a letter to the Stortinget – to the biggest representatives – earlier this year, one just showed how Aarhus today does not have the capacity to treat all the patients that one has in its area. One shows how serious sick patients from Groruddalen become caste balls between different hospitals. So now one from the government is going to go into a huge expansion on Gaustad that won't solve the capacity challenges for Aarhus, and where one pushes into the dark when they can be solved. What is the answer for those in Aarhus who are struggling with major capacity challenges today? When does a lasting situation get to Ahus?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e953	The answer for them at Ahus is definitely not to follow the Central Party's recipe, which would push these expansions out in time for many years. The answer is precisely the plans that are now available, and fortunately, one has now started to grant loans for the expansion of a new hospital in Aker, which from 2030/2031 starts to relieve Aarhus of moving city parts from Aarhus back to Oslo. In addition, the development of Akershu University Hospital is planned, among others. new building for mental health protection, and work on new radiation and somatic building must also be started. At the same time, I have made sure that Kongsvinger Hospital has been moved from the Hospital Inland to Aarhus. Thus, Ahus is given the opportunity to use the available capacity there, while ensuring that Kongsvinger Hospital is also run for the future, as opposed to the Central Party policy, which would probably involve the hospital being closed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e958	It is precisely with the solution of the Center Party that you will be able to ensure a faster expansion of Aker Hospital as a local hospital for the whole Grorud Valley that can relieve the capacity of Aarhus, among other things. in the future, rather than driving forward a huge expansion in Gaustad, to which major economic challenges are attached, to which the representative Toppe also referred. The quality assurance of the project concludes that there is significant uncertainty about both the investment costs and the operational economic consequences. It is precisely by driving forward such an expansion that creates uncertainty about the future situation of a local hospital for the whole of the Grorud Valley that can relieve Aarhus in that area, and also creates uncertainty about the absolutely necessary expansions that are at Aarhus both in terms of radiation treatment and in terms of psychiatry. Why don't the councils provide for a proper investigation of Ullevål as an alternative instead of running their giant plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e963	Here it is clear that the representative is not concerned about Aarhus – it is Ullevål that is the background. The centre party must soon decide whether the Gaustad extension is gigantic or whether it is too small. Now I've just had to answer the representative, Toppe, who's worried about the Gaustad expansion being too small, and then this representative from the Central Party is standing here calling the expansion huge. Luckily, it's in the middle, it's exactly right. The Central Party's alternative in this area would mean further investigations, further releases, and it would not have least affected the inhabitants of the new Viken region, which is dependent on an Aarhus receiving relief both through the transfer to Aker and through the expansions to take place with Ahus. They don't need new, long investigations and new uncertainties. They need us to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e971	«Health undertakings must save 30 per cent of the investment costs by profiting from operations. Oslo University Hospital has not completed this and is therefore to use the regional buffer for Health South-East, built up by withholding funds from the other health establishments in the region. Can the Council of State guarantee that the realization of New Oslo University Hospital does not go at the expense of necessary construction projects in other parts of Health South-East?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e978	Health South-East has an overall responsibility for the economy of its region. When applying for loans for major projects, they must demonstrate that both the region and the health business can cope with the increased costs of the project. In addition, the region must ensure that the health business and the region have liquidity to manage the payments resulting from the project. Oslo University Hospital has previously contributed to the realisation of priority projects in other parts of Health South-East and has significant amounts outstanding under the regional loan scheme. The development of Oslo University Hospital is now a priority. Health South-East has upgraded a solid liquidity and regional buffer to carry out hospital upgrades in the health region. Health South-East assesses and prioritises its investment plans annually through the treatment of the long-term economic plan. The Board of Health South-East considered the long-term economic plan for 2020-2023 in June 2019. Several projects are prioritised in addition to New Oslo University Hospital. The economic long-term plan for 2020-2023 foresees an increase of 3.2 billion in the key performance and liquidity buffer in the region. kr. While it is important that health regions are concerned with the development of results, I would like to stress that there are also funds for investment in the annual basic frameworks. The long-term economic plans show that Health South-East has 3.8 billion annually. kr available in free liquidity on a balance sheet result. These funds are used for the repayment of previous loans, the financing of regional priority projects and the local investment of health care establishments. I am concerned that Oslo University Hospital gets new construction, better capacity and ability to assemble functions. It is important, not least for access to health professionals throughout the rest of the country, that the provision in Oslo is organised in such a way that in the future there will be a need for minimum growth in the need for health professionals in this area. Due to the size and complexity of the project, tight financial management will have to be implemented throughout the project to keep economic development under control. The long-term economic plan for Health South-East shows that the region is planning to implement a number of other construction projects and that they consider that there is room to implement them at the same time as the Aker/Gaustad development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e991	I'm not going to be sure of the answer. In the quality assurance report, PwC says about the OUS development that ‘in our view, there is significant uncertainty both in terms of investment costs and operational economic gains’. This could affect economic and financial sustainability. When the Council of State points to sustainability in Health South-East, it depends on improving efficiency in all enterprises in the region, which already face capacity challenges. If the OYS does not achieve its objectives, the Minister of Health then believes that the OYS should cut down on its operations in order to save, or cut down on other investments in Health South-East, in conjunction with an enormous increase in long-term economic efficiency, among others. 13 pst. domestic in four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1000	Now it is the case that the Inland has its own investment plans, which of course they also have to take into account. In Health South-East, new buildings are now being built at the Radium Hospital. In Kristiansand, Tønsberg and Drammen there was a recent construction start for a new hospital. In addition to the OUS project, plans are now being implemented for projects at both the Hospital Telemark, Akershus University Hospital, which I have had in a previous answer, and the Hospital Østfold. It is further development of the Hospital Inland, with which the representative is well-known, emergency building at Sørlanden Hospital and upgrading the hospitals in Bærum, Ringerijke and Kongsberg. It is also planned to establish new radiation units at the hospitals in West Viken, in Telemark, in Westfold, in Akershus and in Eastfold by 2030. So there are a number of projects that are prioritised in addition to New Oslo University Hospitals in the long-term plan for Health South-East. So until what the representative described as gigantic savings plans: Well, Oslo University Hospital must save between 2019 and 2028 450 million. kr. That's $45 million. kr annually on a budget of 23 billion. kr. I don't see it as unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1007	The Council of State underlines in its response how ambitious these plans are. The government points out in the State budget for 2020 that Health South-East liquidity reserves are used in Oslo and that tasks can be added to other entities to achieve this. All South-East enterprises have had to contribute to this buffer, with cuts in their operating budgets. Can the Council of State give an overview of how the large investment in Oslo will affect the operating situation of the other South-East enterprises? This may mean that critical specialist treatment is not given to patients. Can the Council of State insist that patients be put on hold, or are the efficiency objectives of the Hospital Inland not feasible?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1014	Oslo University Hospital has for several years contributed to the construction of the liquidity reserve that Health South-East has and has also contributed to the investments carried out in other parts of Health South-East. One of the purposes of having health regions is precisely to have a solidarity model where the different parts of the health region contribute at different times, but also get back at different times. That's precisely why Health South-East can have the ambitious plans that they have, by, among other things. held back money to address this investment need that is across the region. I am very clear that both Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East obviously must have tight management of the project in Oslo, and I have no reason to doubt that they will have. The risk identified by external quality assurance — and to be pointed out — will be reduced as the project is further developed and more detailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1024	The question concerns Oslo University Hospital: ‘The head of early stages in hospital construction projects’ states, inter alia, that an operational development plan is the first one to be included in hospital planning, that an impact assessment is to be carried out under the Planning and Building Act before deciding on location, and that several different concepts are to be considered during the conceptual phase. Does the Council of State consider that the counsellor has been followed in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1031	Each health region is responsible for planning and investigating investment projects in its region. The four health regions have jointly developed an early-stage guide to hospital projects adopted by the health boards in the health regions. In Health South-East, the planning of New Oslo University Hospitals has been going on for a number of years. During this period, the supervisor has been updated and adjusted and a revised version was adopted in the autumn of 2017. In the latest version, the content of the idea phase has changed, and it is now referred to as ‘project framework’, as investments and building needs are also assessed in health enterprises’ development plans. In addition, it is considered that localisation should be determined before the start of the concept phase. For New Oslo University Hospital, structure and target form were adopted in 2016 after the idea phase was completed. The target picture was in line with the wishes of the Municipality of Oslo, and it was decided to realize the new large emergency hospital in Aker. When it comes to collecting national and regional functions, the Ideas phase studies show that Gaustad is the best place to come out. This is related to the fact that Gaustad has the latest building mass. Establishing a comprehensive regional hospital on Ullevål was not recommended in the Idea Phase Studies, and it was not considered to be socially viable. Health South-East later assessed this option and concluded that it would have cost 12.8 billion. kr more and more seven years longer time to implement. In line with the supervisor, alternative solutions have been developed – both conceptual and alternative placements of the buildings on the plots at Aker and Gaustad have been assessed. The early-stage supervisor of hospital projects says that clarification of the location is to be made before the concept phase is started. This was done in the planning of Aker and Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1044	Suffering from the fact that the four regional health establishments have developed the guide, they cannot do so without the approval of the Council of State, so it is in reality the documents of the Council of State. According to the 2017 early-stage guidance for hospital projects, point 4.3. Approves the selection of location: ‘Where changes to the existing hospital structure involve the selection of a new location, the decision-making board of the regional health undertaking shall submit this to the ministry: [[(ref. Section 30 of the Health Business Act]] My question is this: When did the Council of State approve the location of the hospital in this case, i.e. what means that Ullevål should be laid down? And point 2: Has this decision been a fact that has overthrew the board of Health South-East planning after this date?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1056	As the representative is well-known, the aim of Oslo University Hospital, and structure, was adopted in 2016 – after the idea phase was completed. And as the representative is also aware, it was confirmed by me at the corporate meeting on 24 June of the same year, after it had also been treated in the boards of both Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East. It is also in line with the wishes of the Municipality of Oslo. The first result of this is now on the Radium Hospital, where one is now tearing down the clinic building and is building a new clinic building, and the Municipality of Oslo has also decided to build the new metropolitan guard on Aker.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1061	To what the Council of State says, the concept of ‘target image’ is an abstract concept that no one other than those sitting in the room can know the contents of. It's completely indefinable. I want to repeat my question, because what the Council of State actually said about that decision of 24 June 2016 is that it was when the Council of State approved location after the supervisor – which in reality means that the board of Health South-East had to deal with that decision and could not use other alternatives. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1068	When I dealt with the matter in the business meeting, it was dealt with in advance both in the board of Oslo University Hospital and in the board of Health South-East, and they had facilitated this decision through all the investigation and planning that had been in advance. That means that the idea phase was completed. At that time, both the structure and the target image were adopted. That is also what you have planned for later, even though the board of directors, among other things, is. have seen alternatives as the collection of regional hospital functions on Ullevål, which would not have been in line with this target picture – what was decided in 2016. But because it was a wish from, among other things, Oslo municipality that you should look into it, the board has looked at it. I have no problem with that, and that means that the kind of bond that the representative here is trying to suggest is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1073	The next question is from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Industry. The questioner is not present in the room, so we move on to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1081	This question, from the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1086	‘Stavanger jurisprudence ruled in September 2019 that seafarers in Red Traffic lose their statutory pension rights because the employer has not paid for a compulsory occupational pension. On 10 April 2018, Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The government asks the Government to consider establishing a supervisory regime with related penalties to ensure that businesses follow up the statutory obligation to establish and maintain compulsory occupational pensions for their employees.’ What has the government done to follow up this decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1093	The Act on compulsory occupational retirement provision came into force in 2006 and obliges most employers to have an occupational pension scheme for their employees. This obligation is very important for employers to follow up. Following today's legislation, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has the power to oblige employers to set up an occupational pension scheme. The financial supervision may also, if necessary, take decisions on daily leave as long as the employer does not comply with the obligation to have an occupational pension scheme. The obligation of employers to have an occupational pension scheme is thus already monitored. The question that Stortinget has asked us to consider is whether the supervisory regime should be amended or extended. The Ministry of Finance has started this work and has asked the tax administration to investigate how information already reported to public authorities through the a scheme may be used for the follow-up of private occupational pension schemes. The SSB, Nav, Finans Norway and the Financial Supervisory Authority are part of the working group together with the tax administration. The tax administration received the mission in June of this year and the investigation will be delivered in November 2019. One of the objectives of the investigation is to propose solutions that can help to increase the number of employers who live up to their pension obligations. A new supervisory system must be cost-effective and at the same time contribute to the proper follow-up of obligations to its employees. The tax administration's investigation is an important step on the way to getting the information we need in order to make thorough assessments of any changes in the supervision of private occupational pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1104	I thank you for your answer. It's interesting to know about this. when Stortinget can expect to get a case, but it is possible it is a little too early to say. I would like to ask about the following, because I notice that the Ministry of Finance's budget proposal for 2020 says that the purpose of the investigation – as the Minister of Finance also said – is to increase the number of employers who are complying with their pension obligations. It is not possible to ensure that all employers comply with their obligations. Does this mean that only random checks are still carried out, or will it be possible, through the use of information from the ‘A’ scheme, to provide for continuous monitoring of the fulfilment by all employers of their pension obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1113	I wish I could answer that question very clearly now, but we get this investigation in November and will go through it and appropriately come back to Stortinget to answer the questions from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1118	I have such an understanding of it. Another follow-up issue: The Council of State referred to the Financial Supervision Office and that we already have a supervisory system. It is true that the Financial Supervisory Authority today has the power to enforce the OTP Act, but before another supervisory system is in place, they have said that they are based only on tips. Figures from 2017 show 34 advance notices and 8 daily fines, but when the media try to understand which companies this concerns, because they believe it is important to provide information about unprofessional companies that cheat their employees for pensions, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority says that these are ‘business relationships that would be of competitive importance to keep secret’. Does the Council of State share that assessment, or will a new supervisory mechanism provide for such transparency to the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1127	The current supervisory system is based on both tips and external enquiries about possible breaches of the law. As I said in my first answer, it is important that as many employers as possible comply with this legislation, simply because it is about people's rights to earn pensions. I am pleased with the commitment of the representative here, and will come back to these questions in connection with the follow-up to the work that is now being done in the direction of the tax administration and other agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1134	We go back to question 5, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1142	‘Brønnøsund registries are developing a new procedural system to replace what was developed in the 1990s. The two platforms will need to be operated in parallel for several years to come. In addition, the cost of information security is increasing. The registers are central to the simplification of business and business associations through digitisation. How does the Council of State of Brønnøsund think that the possibility of taking an offensive role in this work would be with the draft operating budget for 2020?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1149	The development of a new registry platform, which otherwise has an upper framework of 1 billion. kr, for which this government has authorised, is a major and important investment for the Brønn Island Health Registers. The new platform will simplify and streamline the way in which the Brønn Island Health Registers operate, and will contribute to faster, safer and more user-oriented procedures. When a register is transferred to a new platform, the Brønn Island Health Registers, as addressed by the questioner, must manage both old and new solutions for a transitional period. This gives rise to a period of double management costs. The size of the budget is based on the fact that the work of the Brønn Island Health Registers on a new registry platform has been delayed. In 2020, the Brønnøsund Registers shall work for increased productivity and progress in the registry platform project. I do not expect large cost increases for double administration until 2021. Therefore, on the basis of the principle of realistic budgeting, there will be no significant need for an allocation for this in 2020. It is also important to point out that a new registry platform will bring internal economic benefits, i.e. when development is fully implemented. We have to see these gains in relation to the increased costs. Good information security systems are important for the activities of the Brønn Island Health Registers and are essential to take into account the development of the new registry platform. I perceive that the Brønn Island Health Registers are working purposefully to ensure good systems of information security in the various parts of their activities. The government is proposing an operating allocation for the 348,3 million Brønnøsund registers. kr for 2020. This is an increase of l9.9 million. kr from original proposal for 2019. I believe this is a proper budget framework for the Brønnøysund registers in the coming year. There will be cost increases in the Brønnøsund registers as a result of both increased rent and increased administrative costs. The large cost increases do not reach the second half of 2021, nor is it a question for the 2020 budget. The government is committed to ensuring the good environment in the Brønn Island Health Registers, not least because we are going to digitize more. This means that the sum of new tasks, reasonable requirements for efficiency improvement and cost increases should not lead to dramatic changes in the organisation, but simply enable them to manage their tasks. Together with the Brønnøysund Registers, the Ministry shall look at the steps that can be taken to rig the floor for a new digital working day and to enable it to take on new tasks and bets in this field in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1172	The government of Stoltenberg decided that Statsbyggen would build a new building for the Brønnøsund registers in Brønnøysund. It was transformed when the government of Solberg came to power in 2013. In 2017, it was decided that it would be built privately, which means that a rental contract was also approved that would increase expenditure, with half a year's impact from 2021 and full in 2022, on which the minister was involved. A notice from the Ministry shall be given to increase rent costs for 2021 by 40 million. kr per year will have to be covered in operation, which today, as the minister says, is 348 million. kr. Is the minister aware of such a message, and is there any discussion in the ministry about what it can mean for industry's offers at the Brønn Island Health Registers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1181	It has always been clear that a house rent increase will have to be covered within the framework of the Brønnøsund Registers – ‘the operation’ is a bit unpresist, but within the framework of the Brønnøsund Registers. Then the next question is, how is that frame? And that's where I say that it's primarily a question for the 2021 budget. I am concerned that, at the same time as we are going to have – and we are still going to have – expectations of what I would say is a reasonable improvement in efficiency, the sum of, for example, a rent increase, any double costs of developing BRsys at the same time as running the old system in parallel, and other requirements and tasks that we have added to the building, because it is good, be manageable. But as I said, this is not a question for the 2020 budget, in my opinion, it is a question for the 2021 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1188	It's supported. It becomes important that the 2021 budget is correct. The case-handling time at the Brønn Island Health Registers means a great deal to business expenditure. Estimates have been made that an increase in one-day proceedings will increase the cost to business by 14 million. kr. At the same time, it can be seen that if you were able to cut the one-day deadline, society would make more money. Digitalisation saves other than the Brønnøsund registers, namely for business. After all, the Minister of Industry meets a lot of businesses. Has he met with concerns about the processing time at the Brønn Island Health Registers in his meetings with the business community?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1197	I haven't met it. However, I know that the staff in the Brønnøysund registers, who have close contact with private businesses, have just the message that their processing time is important for private business in Norway. I'm also concerned about that. That's why I say that the framework has to make it capable of dealing with the challenges you're facing. At the same time, this government will continue to have requirements for sensible efficiency improvements, including: in the ABE reform, but also in the fact that when a new digital processing system is fully operational and running and is completed, it is natural that there are efficiency gains from it. It is then necessary to assess in future budgets how much of what will be in the framework — whether there are other important tasks for which resources will be used. But it is, as I said, a question for the budgets of 2021 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1206	So we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1214	‘During the last few weeks, we have received alarming reports from the trade union movement that hiring Eastern Europeans takes over for permanent employees in industry, and that in eight out of ten construction sites in Bergen and Oslo there are illegal rentals. In Oslo, the proportion of leased-in is high and at the same level as before the introduction of the new lease-in rules. At its recent national meeting, the Joint Confederation unanimously agreed that the crew industry should be phased out in its current form. What does the Council of State think of the decision, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that the new provisions on lease-in are complied with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1221	There is a broad consensus that fixed, direct employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Developments with a high level of rentals may have several challenges, both for the workers, for the industries concerned, and for the labour market in general. As of January of this year, the terms of the lease-in were therefore tightened. At the same time, new rules were introduced specifically aimed at the manning industry which imposes predictability requirements for the scope of work and when work is to be carried out. I believe that a ban on the rental of temporary workers would be too restrictive in view of the needs of businesses for stoppages and the absence of workers. Also in industries such as construction, there may be legitimate needs to hire additional labour during periods. Nor is there always sufficient local labour available. Excessive regulation may also affect permanent employees by the fact that businesses are not able to undertake tasks that they could carry out with a certain amount of lease-in. It is the responsibility of employers to ensure that they operate legally, fairly and seriously. In my view, we have a good and balanced regulatory framework. Good rules, however, are of little help if industry actors do not respect the rules. The government is therefore committed to equip the Labour Inspectorate with new tools to remove unprofessional actors from the workplace. In order to ensure sound conditions in the manpower sector, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs sent a proposal to be consulted in June this year and is now working on the proposal to present it to the Stortinget. The proposal confers on the Labour Inspectorate the power to supervise and impose impositions and reactions for infringements of the rules on hiring and non-discrimination. This could be done, for example, by: means that establishments which do not comply with an obligation to stop illegal rental are at risk of a periodic penalty payment. Employers who seriously or repeatedly infringe the provisions will also risk the fee for infringements. In addition, the government has set up a party-based selection to address the challenges we are facing in terms of changes in the use of forms of employment connectivity, including renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1234	The government told the media after the rental report that the alarm had to go, and in the VG she warned against going into the same trap as during the previous trip in 2008, when the Workers' Party was in government and two out of three jobs went to work immigrants. But then LO has documented that the same thing is happening now, that job growth is mainly going to foreign rentals for short-term stays. We received last week's report on how this affects the industry, how they are struggling with exactly the same thing as the construction industry: massive renting, fewer and fewer permanent employees and fewer and fewer trade union workers. This has become so extensive that the national meeting unanimously joined in order to complete the crew industry in its present form. What does it take to ensure that the Council of State will listen to the biggest link in the private sector and prevent the manning industry from being able to rage more and more parts of our working life – which we are getting reports on from the construction industry and now from industry as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1239	First of all, I totally disagree with the premise. It's not true that rents have increased, it's actually been surprisingly stable for many years. In Oslo, in particular, there is a challenge in the construction industry. It's not a big problem around the country, but especially in Oslo, this is a problem. Nor are we going back to the level under the red-green government, when two out of three of the new jobs went to work immigrants. This is not the reality, on the contrary, of the solid growth we have seen in the last three years, which has come largely from those living in Norway, including migrant workers — but from those living in Norway. But we're going to follow the illegal use of rentals, we don't want anyone to bypass the system. That is why we have sent out a consultation proposal on how to improve the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to oversee the rental industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1244	LO has demonstrated that the number of hours hired in industry has increased by 61 pst. from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018. The report is based on figures that are not normally available and are not available for other industries. There are no official statistics on rentals. That is why Red recently proposed that the government should record the development of hirings from recruitment agencies and make overviews by industry and county, but it therefore voted against the government parties in this room. Is the Council of State against providing the kind of overview that is absolutely necessary in order for us to be able to follow developments and not least to take the necessary action? Why has the Right voted against this proposal to obtain statistics — industry and region by region?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1249	We have a lot of knowledge and statistics about rentals – who comes and who works here – in different forms. I think we have a good overview, and it also shows that the amount of rental has not increased, it has been surprisingly stable. We are, as I said in my previous answer, not back where we were. But then we fully agree that it's important that now, when we're in the boom we're in, we don't make the same mistake as last time, but on the contrary, we use the good times to mobilize domestic labour. Nearly one in five of the pre-employment population is out of work and on different benefits — short-term and long-term. It is important now that we make good use of the time to qualify those who need qualification, that we be able to facilitate those who need organisation, that we be able to exploit the residual working capacity of those who are currently out of work and who are at different levels of benefit. Therefore, my call has been made clear: the employers must be involved in this work and help us to mobilise internally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1257	‘The Government has proposed in its draft State budget for 2020 a cut in the system of social security for children’s goggles. Following a review by In fact.no, the Ministry cannot respond to the technical basis on which the new fixed social security rates are set. Does the Council of State consider that the government's proposal for a cut-off in the system of support for children's goggles is sufficiently well established and on what knowledge basis did the Council of State decide to make changes affecting the ability of children to have adapted glasses?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1264	First of all, I would like to thank you for the question. There have been significant uncertainties and some misunderstandings about what this scheme is and is not. Today, people's fear covers spectacles according to two different social welfare schemes. One scheme, ‘Help for the visually impaired’, applies to both children and adults. The criteria are that you have been diagnosed with various types of serious illness or a condition that affects your vision so that you need glasses or contact lenses. We have not proposed changes to this scheme. As a general rule, no support is given to spectacles or contact lenses from the working and well-being seat in the event of normal refractive defects, such as shortsightedness, long-sightedness or brittle corneas. However, support may be given to spectacles for children and adolescents under 18 years of age who need glasses as a necessary part of the treatment of eye conditions, such as scalding and different optical fractures in the eyes. This scheme has had a strong expenditure increase in recent years. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has therefore had a review of the scheme, such as: showed that there was support for disproportionately expensive glasses. As you know, public health should only provide support for the most reasonable, appropriate glasses. Indicative prices for mounting, different glasses and the price of spectacle adjustment from three of the largest optics chains were obtained. The average price for ordinary and specially adapted glasses, respectively, was approximately 900 and 1800 kroner. The Government’s proposal for a rate of DKK 1200 and NOK 2400 is well above such an average price and is therefore within the framework of what should be considered to cover reasonable, appropriate glasses. I also refer to my reply on 22 October to written questions from the representative Björnebeck-Waaagen on this matter. I stress that no limit has been proposed on how many glasses you can get support for. Children will therefore be covered with new glasses when they are destroyed or lost or when the visual acuity changes. We have seen that some children and families who have received support for glasses also fill the conditions for glasses according to the other scheme, i.e. «Help for visually impaired». These will be transferred to the other system and will thus cover the cost of spectacles as before. However, we cannot rule out that there may still be a few of the children with special needs under the scheme ‘Shrimps for children and young people under 18 years of age’ who have the necessary expenditure on glasses that are higher than the proposed rates. Therefore, when the new rules enter into force on 1 March 2020, the Government will ensure that these children also meet their needs for spectacles.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1279	I hear that prices have been collected, but I cannot see that there has been a complete and professional assessment and necessary investigation. A few days after the submission of the State budget, the Council of State announced that she would propose a derogation scheme, as she also mentions here, for children with special needs. The paradox of today's system is that it covers only children with special needs, but who are now potentially pushed out, perhaps those who need the most. In the evening post on Saturday 12 October we can read about Alvilde in 3 years that is being hit by the government's cut. I have not seen that the Council of State has proposed to go back to the cut that is in the submitted state budget. How can the Council of States promise an exemption scheme and that children will continue to receive the glasses they need when no more money is put into the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1288	The example to which the representative refers, little Alvilde, is also an example that I mentioned to the extent in my reply, a child who, as I understand what Nav has said to the evening post, will be covered by the other arrangement. Well that's what this review has shown, that you have people who are on slightly different schemes, and who might have been somewhere else than where they are. For the children and for the families, it is all the more important that they get the help they need, that they get the glasses they need, and that they get the treatment they need, and of course we still have to ensure that. This case is not about getting glasses for treatment purposes. That's what you have to get. It's not about not getting as many times as you need: you should still get it. The question is how expensive the glasses should be, and the review to Nav shows that it is possible to get glasses at a fairer price than has been given in recent years. We'll get back to the guidelines before March.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1293	Stories from reality show that there are examples out there where the rates that are set do not meet the need that is there. It seems to me that the government has suggested something first, and then you discover the consequences of it, that it creates quite a lot of control, and that there is resistance to it, and then you charge for hard life. During a week afterwards, it is proposed that there should be a new derogation scheme. So you say now you have to have a review of the rules. This is not described in the state budget that we have received. These are jump-and-hop policies that hit children and families. Cut into the social security scheme for children's goggles may create differences: those who have parents who can pay and those who don't. Based on the way the State Council has provided the system, as described in the State budget, some may fall inside and others fall outside. It's unfair. Then I wonder: Was the council familiar with the consequences of the cut when she made the decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1302	The President is uncertain whether ‘jump-and-jump-policy’ is acceptable language use in the staging room, but should allow it to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1307	It is explicitly stated in the budget proposal that there should be a review of practice and of the guidelines. It is quite clear from the government that there is a need to look at both practices and guidelines because in the review that Nav did at an earlier time, it was precisely that there were ambiguities in both parts. It has also been on the agenda with the industry, and it has also been published to journalists and others who have asked for transparency in the work. We are concerned that the children who need glasses for treatment should get it, and they should get it as often as they need it. But we are also concerned that the arrangements should fulfil the intent set by the Storting, and that includes, among other things. it shall be reasonable and appropriate. We are busy protecting the children who have very high expenses, who will go beyond the rates, but we will come back to that. We share the ambition that the children who need glasses will still get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1323	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Minister for Transport has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1338	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Minister for Transport has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1346	This question, from the representative Elin Tvete to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food to direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1351	‘Proposal for a State budget under the Ministry of Climate and Environment states: ‘The action plan against the progeny of wild boar aims at the least possible wild boar in Norway and spreads over a least-possible geographical area.’ Wild boar is an undesirable species in Norway that causes serious damage to crops and may be spreads of swine fever. The government does not aim to eradicate wild boar, but only keep the population down. Does the Government recognise the risk of spreading the disease swine fever from wild boar to domestic swine and will the Government aim to eradicate wild boar?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1358	I want to thank you for the question. African swine fever is a highly contagious and fatal viral disease that can affect both wild and domestic swine. It is the other country that has had great experience. Russia, China and several Eastern European countries and EU countries have the disease today. Therefore, both agricultural and food management and industry follow developments in Europe very closely and suspected outbreaks of the disease in Norway are to be reported to the Food Safety Authority. I believe that an outbreak of African swine fever in Norway could have serious consequences for our pig population and that the spread and maintenance of infection are closely linked to wild boar populations. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have given a joint mission to the Food Authority and the Environment Directorate and asked them for a proposal for an action plan against wild boar. The term of office of the Directorate is 1 November of this year. In the Directorate’s mission, it has been suggested that the plan should add to the lowest possible number of wild boar spread over a minimum area. Furthermore, the plan shall describe measures that are appropriate to maintain this objective over time. My colleague in the Ministry of the Environment and Climate and I await this action plan. The objectives underlying the work are, inter alia, the following: Based on the large wild boar population in Sweden, which could result in the continuous migration of wild boar across the border to Norway. It is therefore not realistic to completely eradicate wild boar, but good cooperation and exchange of information between hunters, landowners, farmers and authorities could help to minimise wild boar populations and prevent outbreaks of African swine fever in Norway. I would like to add that I see a need for a very important cooperation between Sweden and Norway to reduce wild boar populations, and I have addressed this in the autumn with the Swedish Minister of Agriculture. I also raised this issue in the Nordic Council of Ministers in Iceland this autumn, and it was decided that one should follow up this wild boar problem at the Nordic level. This is an important issue for Norway, and I look forward to this action plan being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1371	Thank you for a good answer. Many people are eagerly awaiting the Action Plan against wild boar and are keen on what measures and tools can be used to limit and potentially eradicate the species. Then my supplementary question is: To hunt wild boar is the most effective hunting form on wild boar and absolutely necessary to keep the population down. Today there are no rules on how much you can spend on feeding, and it can easily be feeding. There are also no rules on the types of feed that can be used. Will the Minister take the initiative to regulate the quantity and type of feed that can be used for the feeding of wild boars to keep the population down?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1378	I think it's a set of measures and what size we're using, which is important in order to be able to potentially eradicate and keep the population all the way down. It's also a challenge that we have a long limit. This means that we need to be careful about how we reduce the risk of infection in terms of bait, and provide each of us with information about what we put around us and in rest areas, which become important places where wild boars will seek and thus be potential vectors for our Norwegian pig herd.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1383	Wild boar is an animal that walks — not quickly, but they walk in flocks. They're on their way to Eastfold, further into the country, now. Wild boar is a night-active animal, and effective hunting is important to keep the population down. I wonder then: will the Minister of the Action Plan take the initiative to change the game law in order to allow artificial, fixed light for hunting, which is now permitted for red reefs, and night optics to ensure that the hunting we now have to carry out in order to keep the stock down becomes appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1388	When this action plan comes, I will consider a lot of instruments. Optical light and not least light crew are part of that assessment. I believe that we have to do what we can to prevent wild boar from becoming part of the Norwegian fauna. We have seen how devastating it has been in Sweden, and we see the challenges in Norway. I myself have been in Aremark and met the farmers who in the course of hours at night get their soils turned upside down. It's a challenge for the individual farmer, but it's also a challenge for us as a nation, because we don't want it the way they got it in Sweden, with 300,000-400,000 animals, while we have, as we think, about. 1 000. But that number has to go down even further. It's important to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1396	‘The proportion of foreign students is already too low, and is now falling, despite the fact that the Council of State has declared an ambitious target for half of Norwegian students to have a foreign residence as part of the studies. Is the 15 million in the State budget enough to close the growing gap between goals and realities, or does the government have extra measures when student mobility decreases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1403	The proportion of Norwegian students studying abroad is too low today. That is also the background for me now working with a big message about international student mobility. There I add to a rather ambitious goal that half of Norwegian students during their study period should have had a qualitatively good study or practice stay abroad. It will obviously take time to achieve this goal. Today, only 16 pst travels. by the students abroad, but I think we must still dare to have ambitions. My ambition is to facilitate a cultural change in the university and higher education sectors, among both the institutions and the students themselves, in order for mobility to become a fully integrated part of all Norwegian study programmes. It must be a measure that stays abroad are normal, not the exception. How we're going to achieve such a cultural change will be one of the most important issues in the Single European Act, which we aim to present to the Biggest in 2020. I want to start work as quickly as possible. There is also a background for the government already proposing to allocate 15 million in the State budget for 2020. to highlight funds for action to increase international student mobility and thus to start this important work. In order for us to achieve the desired cultural change, a number of different actors have to work together. We need to facilitate best regulation and incentives, universities need to work to make it easier to go on exchange and motivate students, and students themselves also need to motivate themselves and each other to leave. Only through such a common promise can we manage to achieve the rather ambitious, but also the necessary goal of getting more people to leave. I will present a comprehensive response to how we will achieve this, both through a desired policy direction and through a set of instruments. The funds the government proposes to allocate in 2020 to Diku's quality programmes, cannot be seen isolated from what we will promote for the Stortinge in the spring session, but must be seen as a starting point for the work of the entire university and higher education sector to do when the big business message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1420	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. In the Workers' Party, we are a little surprised that the government's self-declared ambitions and the long-aware announcement of mobility are followed in such a modest way in the budget. Not enough about it: Yesterday, in today's Perspective, under the heading «Can't reach the goal of student exchange», we could read that the so-called ABE reform makes it difficult to achieve the goal of much more going out. The Director of the Diku, the Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education, had expected more of the State budget. This is one of several examples, according to the Workers' Party's assessment, that the government takes a lot with one hand and gives little with the other. Does the Council of State, which is concerned about not having to look at things in isolation, see that flat, percentage cuts can go in the opposite direction to the goal of getting half of the students out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1429	I believe that the government has provided a good budget for the university and higher education sectors. They have a significant number of billions of dollars at their disposal, and I'm sure they'll get a lot out of that money in 2020. When it comes to Diku and their quality programmes, the money to be spent on internationalization is part of what we put forward in the budget. We are also spending money on practice and developing practices in health and social education through a strengthening of Diku’s quality programmes. So the picture around Diku looks a little bit different than this 15 million. kr in isolation. As I also said in my main response, we aim to present that big message next year. Then Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss this in its full width. This is the way a small part of it is. The big work is about a change of mind and a different way of working out at universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1438	Thanks to the Council of State for this answer too. With regard to the Erasmus+ programme, for which the European Commission has submitted a proposal for a new version, a doubling of the budget is proposed in order to allow more people to participate. The doubling shall allow support for three times as many as in the current period. Another important objective is that new Erasmus+ should be more inclusive and contribute to equal access to exchanges, regardless of social background and other barriers. Can the Council of State, which is impatient after its launch, say something about what the Norwegian Government is going to propose – in the mobility message or otherwise – for more inclusion, i.e. measures to contribute to the possibility of studying abroad for all students?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1447	I would like to thank the representative Sandberg for raising this important issue and for sharing the government's impatience in this work. Erasmus+ is one of the most important actions and the main programme we have for exchange. Many, including myself, have enjoyed exchanges through that programme. It's true, as the representative Sandberg says, that a new program is now being worked on. That's some of what I'm discussing with my colleagues abroad. Although we are not part of the EU, we still have some informal arenas where we can discuss this. The government will return at the appropriate time to the Stortinget with its intentions of Erasmus+. This will also be a budgetary issue which we must address in the context of the current state budget. International student mobility is not just about one action. There is a lot we need to look at in this connection, and that is also why we want to provide a big message. But the work must be done in the institutions. We want to achieve a change of mind and another way of working.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1461	‘We can read in the Class Struggle on 15 October that the Directorate of Criminal Welfare warns that the ABE cuts in criminal matters could lead to more use of part-time jobs and that tasks could be carried out by other agencies or voluntary organisations. Representatives from the right-wing government have previously claimed that the ABE reform should not go beyond the first line and the service offer. Does the Council of State now believe that the budget cuts made in criminal matters go beyond content and the first line of criminal law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1468	Criminal law enforcement shall be carried out in a way that takes account of the purpose of the sentence, which discourages criminal offences, and which safeguards society. Within that framework, the content of the prisoners shall be adequately ensured and priority shall be given to actions contributing to the improvement of the rehabilitation and repatriation of the sentence. I understand that the red tape and efficiency reform are perceived as a challenge to criminal justice. At the same time, criminal services are expected to implement measures to improve their effectiveness. The reform is not specific to criminal services, but concerns all state activities. It is an important step in reducing costs in Norway. The ABE cut is 0.5 pst. by the budget of the individual establishment. In 2013, KDI, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, had a budget of 3.9 billion. kr, while the draft budget for 2020 is SEK 5.2 billion. kr. I expect the KDI from 5.2 billion. kr shall be able to make 25 million more efficient. kr. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is monitoring the follow-up to the government’s ABE reform in criminal matters. An analysis has been carried out of the operational situation in the criminal justice system of external consultants with a focus on the impact of the reform. The report was finalised in May 2018. According to the report, the ABE reform in the analysis period up to 2017 did not have a significant impact on security and service provision in the criminal justice system. The report also points out that the reform of the ABE in criminal care has been largely managed through so-called cheese needs and that no action and efficiency plan has been drawn up for the unit, either overall or at regional level, linked to the ABE reform. The KDI has now addressed this and is in the process of developing an overall plan for implementing efficiency measures. The statement in the Class struggle to which the representative refers is based on an unfinished working document in the work on the plan. In July this year, the Ministry received proposals for a plan of savings and efficiency in criminal justice from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. The Ministry now has a dialogue with the Directorate on the design of this plan and on its actions. It is important that the efficiency improvement is implemented without having a serious impact on the security or service provision of criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1481	Thanks for the answer. When the Council of State draws the appropriations for the criminal service over the budget line, it may be worth mentioning that building new prisons does not automatically give more people on the ‘gold’ and in our prisons. But does the Council agree with the claim that the ABE cuts in criminal matters should not go beyond the first line and the provision of services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1486	Building new prisons does not provide more people, but it provides a more effective way to operate with good quality in prisons. If we are to be able in Norway to maintain the high quality we have in prisons and in very many other areas, when we go towards a time when, for example, we are in prison. Oil revenues are going to be reduced, we're going to have to reduce costs. That is why I am concerned that we should find good efficiency measures that we can manage to implement without jeopardising the offer of prisoners. I come from private business, and there you are used to improving the efficiency to survive the competition from, among other things. China and other low-priced actors. This is a reality that the public must also take on board. We can't just pass the bill on to the taxpayers, because they've already taken the efficiency cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1493	I remember that I also believe that the public now has become used to improving efficiency. I note that the Council of State does not answer my question about the ABE reform in criminal matters going beyond the first line and the service offer, so I wonder if the Council of State can now assure the Stortinget that he will ensure that in the future there will also be trained professionals, prison officers trained at KRUS, who are the first line of Norwegian criminal care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1500	KRUS is going to have a very central role in criminal justice and for the employees who work in prisons in the future. It's not that when I say we're going to be able to streamline, that means it's going to go beyond the first line service. The whole ambition is to maintain the good quality of the first-line service while making it more effective. We have good opportunities to streamline. We have digital solutions where you used to use paper, where you used to have to copy. We're also taking action in other areas that make the criminal justice system also benefit from it. Digitisation of courts is one of those things. Here's a bunch of things that make it possible to take out a potential saving of $25 million. NOK 5,2 billion. kr in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1508	‘Due to a cut in criminal custody, it is proposed to put the kitchen in Ila prison. The service shall be centralised and the prisoners will be provided with plastic-packed food from another kitchen. The kitchen at Ila has been used for training, and several prisoners have been given the chance to take a letter, which gives both a more meaningful life in prison and better chances of success in the post-preservation period. Does the Council of State see that shutting down the kitchen at Ila results in poorer follow-up of the prisoners, and that the prisoners lose an important tool to get education and opportunities to succeed after an end to residence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1515	Like the representative, both the government and I are concerned that the prisoners in the prison will receive an activation offer under settlement that will increase the chances of success after settlement. I have been informed by the Directorate of Public Health that the case representative refers to an ongoing process concerning the refurbishment of the kitchen at the prison department of Ullersmo in Rome. A refurbished kitchen by Ullersmo will also be able to deliver dinner interviews to Oslo prison, which does not have its own kitchen, as well as to Ila prison and detention centre and to Bredtveit prison and detention centre. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare expects to take a final decision in the autumn of 2019 on the Rome-rich prison unit Ullersmo will continue to provide the noon missions to those prisons. If the decision is to aggregate the production, the current production kitchen of both Ila and Bredtveit will be closed. It is important to stress that if the project is launched, this does not mean that the prisoners will lose the activation offer. Today's kitchen at Ila prison and detention centre and Bredtveit prison and detention centre is planned to be used as a training kitchen. In conclusion, I would like to point out that I am concerned that the Criminal Service of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare is free to organise the services in prisons as they deem appropriate, both professionally and economically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1526	It is obvious that the Council of State has been in the post of the Council of State for a long time when he is now serving very bureaucratic answers instead of saying what this is really about. It's about the fact that in Ila prison there are 170 prisoners, and ten of them are activated by being in prison. Several of them have received a diploma. One of them says to Budstikka: “Before I had no education, at last I feel useful in life, I get something of value.” He goes on to say that ‘before or later, most of us are going to be neighbors’. That's what this is all about. It's a cut, a cheese ratio that makes the crime department say they have to do this to meet $25 million. kr i cut every year from the government. My very simple question to the Council of State is: does he not see that shutting down the kitchen at Ila prison will offer a lower education for some prisoners in that prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1540	I noticed that article and the facts presented in the article. Now I'm not going to benefit from the numbers that are there now, but I noticed that this is an extra cost – according to the article – of $5 million. kr a year, and there were eight pieces of ten years that had taken a letter. We need to think about what the cost level of the rehabilitation offer is. That's why I think it might be a good idea to take this review. I'm not worried about food quality either. The food they will now receive, if it is implemented, will be at the same level as the town council in Bergen provides their elderly in nursing homes, or as the rapporteur in Trondheim gives their elderly in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1547	This was pretty elucidating. This is considered by the Council of State to be a saving measure. He believes that the value given to the prisoners in this training offer is not proportional to what the big community spends on it. Then I would like to refer to what one of the prisoners said. He said, ‘Perhaps the short-term gain is tempting, but raise your eyes and look at what society is doing to get rehabilitated and employing people from Ila.’ It is now proposed – as the Council of State is probably very aware – that the Regional Security Department should be moved from Dikemark to Ila. There have been questions about seeing this in context. In that case, the Criminal Service answers that there is nothing they can look at, because this concerns other budget lines. I understand that they have to make their budgets go up, but the Council of State is responsible for the whole of society. Does the Council of State think that this could be a current issue — at all to see if it is possible to see the kitchen at Ila in the context of moving the Regional Security Department, probably to Ila?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1559	I trust that the Directorate of Criminal Welfare will make the professional assessments that are necessary in relation to this kitchen offer. And as I said, you still want to use the prison kitchen on Ila as a training facility. So it's not like the activity of the prisoners disappears. However, when it comes to improving efficiency, and when it comes to cutting costs, you have to look at the diet-benefit effect, and in this case I am not convinced that the diet is proportionate to the benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1567	‘Police lawyers are warning about a crisis in the prosecution authority. In the inland police district, the situation is critical. Cases are settled or remain pending before the Court of First Instance considers that there is a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights and must provide a penalty discount. [[EMK]] It goes beyond the legal certainty of both victims and defendants. The work pressure is extremely high, and many choose to stop. The chief of police says the situation is not critical. Is the Council of State in agreement with the Chief of Police's assessment, or will he explain how the Government will resolve the crisis in the Public Prosecutor's Office?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1574	I fully agree with the representative that a well-functioning prosecution authority and sufficient investigative capacity are essential for good and effective criminal proceedings. I also believe we have. But of course there are challenges there. However, we must ensure that we adapt our activities to the changes that are taking place in the crime scene. Now we have many serious and resource-intensive issues, such as: with sexual offences against children, and they have increased significantly, including in the district referred to here. It is good that these matters are detected and reported, but it affects the capacity of the police and the prosecution authority. A survey carried out shows that the police are now using 30 pst. of all its 3 pst exploration capacity. of the cases. But these are at the same time the most important three percent. Good quality and effectiveness of the procedure are linked to the police’s ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the field of investigation. It's been a challenge. I notice that's the challenge in this case as well. The government has therefore proposed, in its draft State budget, to increase police appropriations by 83 million. kr to allow for a strengthening of the exploration capacity. This will be given as free funding to the police districts, because we believe that there are police officers around who know best where the school prints. In addition, we propose to increase the capacity of the higher prosecution authority by transferring 10 million. kr from the Directorate of Police of the Higher Public Prosecutor’s Office. This will help the higher prosecution authority, through its professional management, to improve the effectiveness and quality of police district criminal proceedings. The Ministry will, in its letter of award for 2020 to the POD and the National Attorney respectively, convey an expectation of close cooperation between the prosecutors and the police authorities on the settlement of the criminal cases. At the meetings I've had with, for example. Lawyers when I have traveled around the police districts, this has been most wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1585	The prosecution authority is absolutely necessary for the functioning of the criminal proceedings chain, and for the police to have any point in investigating cases, in order to be prosecuted, and in order for cases to be brought to justice. But now the prosecution is a huge plug. In the case I've referred to here, Inland, there's a misconception, because the police chief says the situation is not critical, while the prosecution lawyers are very concerned. It also happens elsewhere. The Justice Committee was just visiting the South-East police district. The police lawyer who represented his colleagues there said that the situation is so serious that the balance increases every day – they can't take it in. It would have been useful with some signals from the Minister of Justice about just this. Does the Minister of Justice think it is acceptable that we have it like this in Norway now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1592	In the case of statistics on residues, there is a weak positive trend in the residual situation in police districts as a whole in other countries. With regard to the Inland Police District, statistics show a slight decrease in the number of residues for cases over three months of age, while there is a slight increase in the number of residues for cases over 12 months of age. But I stress that the changes from August 2018 to August 2019 are quite small. Inland police districts are perhaps one of the police districts that have invested most in increasing the number of police officers. They have gone from the second worst police coverage in the country, 1.29 per 1,000 inhabitants, to 1.58, which is quite the middle of the tree. They have a strengthened budget situation of 200 million. kr, but at the same time I see that they are one of the few police districts that have granted less to police lawyers. But I believe it is within the police minister's authority to be able to assess this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1601	The consequences of the lack of strength of police lawyers must be met by the inhabitants of the country – and by the inhabitants of the rest of the country. It's not just in the interior this is a problem. Last week, Hamar Arbeiderblad referred to a case involving a man who two weeks ago was convicted of a heroin seizure that was made three years ago. The day after the seizure, which was 18 October 2016, he confessed and confessed the penalty at the Hamar Police Station. Nevertheless, it takes three years before the case comes to court. And what was supposed to be a judgment of about two and a half years, based on case law, was reduced to one year. This is also a serious matter, although it is not about children and child abuse, which everyone agrees that we must fight. This is serious crime that is not being prosecuted fast enough. There are a lot of excuses from the Minister of Justice. Can he not tell the Storting that he acknowledges the problems of Hamar’s prosecutors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1610	Major drug issues are included in the three percentage points that take 30 pst. by the resources of the police, so it is not just child offences. Rape cases, killings and the kind of cases are also included in the three percent. In police Norway, police districts, the number of lawyers has increased by 164 since 2013. I notice that the Inland has chosen a slightly different profile than many others. They've been making more efforts to increase the number of police officers. It might have a connection that they were very low there. I also notice that the chief of police acknowledges that there are challenges, but there is a difference between having challenges and being completely in crisis. And when we see that the figures for the Inland show a slight decline in the cases that are over three months old, it's not a full crisis. But I'm recording that the chief of police says he's going to deal with the legal situation there. And, as I said, in the state budget, it's worth 83 million. kr to strengthen the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1617	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-23.ana.ud74e1631	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
