ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e42	From the Socialist Group of the Left-wing Group, there is an application for welfare leave from 7 May to 9 May for the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e62	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e67	On behalf of the major representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Sheida Sangtarash, Petter Eide, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to make a proposal to facilitate the arrival of all Norwegian children of parents with IS connections to Norway, as well as to ensure good follow-up after returning to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e72	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e90	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group, that there should be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e97	The Code of Remuneration and Expenditure Coverage for Trustees has been evaluated and amended several times over the last 10 years. A number of specific arrangements have been curtailed or removed. The arrangements for the large-scale representatives have largely approached the rules of the State. It is important that citizens can have confidence in the management of Stortingen’s funds. On 1 January, the Presidency introduced a reinforced requirement for documentation regarding the purpose of the service requirement in the travel bill. We also started further work to review the services and financial arrangements of the EEAS representatives. As a result of the review, some amendments to the travel billing and publicity legislation are proposed for completed journeys. Some of these measures require a change in the Grand Prix Compensation Act and will therefore be promoted in Stortinget as its own case. The representative, Mr Moxnes,'s proposal deals with some of the points the presidency has worked on. We see these proposals in the context of the Presidency's review of the legislation. As it emerges from the vote, the presidency has a different approach to several of the proposals of the Moxnes. That's why we recommend Stortinget to reject the proposals from the Moxnes. The representative of Moxnes has proposed that information at the overall level on the service requirements of the depositors can be made available on the Storting website. The Presidency will stress that there is – and still should be – full transparency about the travel expenses of the EEAS when they are requested to be transparent. There is an important democratic control in full transparency about our arrangements and travel bills, down to the annex level. We're going to be able to go down in the seams, and we're going down in the seams. The Presidency proposes to publish information on travel destinations, dates, time, purpose and cost of delegation and committee trips on the Storting website, in order to make them more accessible. Instead, the Presidency has decided on a solution whereby representatives explain combined private and service rights in the comments section of the travel bill, with a requirement that individuals should always explain it if a service trip is combined with private circumstances. The purpose and content of the journey shall be primarily service-related in order to cover the journey as a service. The Presidency will not be prepared to reintroduce certification from the party groups, as proposed by the representative, Mr Moxnes. As elected representatives, you are not employed at the Stortinget, but you have a trust by being elected by the voters every four years. It should continue to be the case that the representatives of the Grand Duchy themselves define their need for meetings and travels in order to assume their responsibilities towards the electorate. The Presidency believes that an arrangement whereby an employee of the batch teams should have a real overview and control of the travel activities of each representative is not the way to go. It is we, as big-time representatives, who have to be responsible for our travel bills. The Presidency has also decided to restrict the rules on commuting to representatives who can be defined as commuters under the tax rules. This means that representatives living in the commuting home with the family will not be able to demand commuting in the future. Red promotes two new proposals on the subject of screening and random checks. I would like to point out that the Presidency has put in place and will introduce further measures to strengthen control. The main device of the measures is to prevent errors and abuses and, at the same time, to provide the administration with a reinforced basis for carrying out its controls. The Presidency will not rule out the possibility of assessing the type of control measures proposed by Red, but we are concerned that the changes we have already made must have an opportunity to work. The Presidency will return to possible new control measures after a thorough assessment of how best to target them and work properly. We have asked the administration to initiate a work to look at intensified control procedures, but the presidency is, as I said, concerned with actions that work well. My starting point is that big business representatives don't cheat. We act conscientiously and to the best of our ability in accordance with the legislation and the travel settlement system. Yes, it is serious that Storting's administration has been notifying two large-scale representatives in the last year of possible abuse, but that this provides the basis for full scrutiny of all representatives, I do not agree. The launch of a full review of all stockpiling representatives is a major measure. We in the presidency are committed to having a better system for the future, as our implemented actions and actions in the vote will contribute to. We will also look, as I have already mentioned, at further control measures. In the light of what I have now explained, the changes the Presidency has adopted, and with the notified changes that will be promoted as amendments to the Grand Prix Compensation Act, I recommend supporting the vote, not adopting the proposal for a representative, and voting against the proposal of the representative, Mr Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e122	When trust is broken, either by deliberately cheating or by slurring, it is sad for the individual, and it is damaging to the reputation of politics. As magnification representatives, we are ombudsmen for those who have voted for us, and for that part of the country we represent. The voters expect the best of us. My impression is that everyone in this room is concerned about keeping things in order. It is important to note that there are only exceptional irregularities of the kind we are discussing here today. But that doesn't mean we're not going to consider whether the system we have is good enough. As ombudsmen, grossing-up representatives do not formally respond to either their own pooling group, their own group board or their own party leader for that matter. The position of a staging representative is special. It is and may continue to be trust-based. But I also believe that the voters expect us to make sure that we have a system that creates the necessary security and trust. On the one hand, we're not going to have a control system that makes each one suspect in the first place, and where the bureaucracy is taking over. On the other hand, we have to have a system that allows us all to be confident that everything is in order. I understand that people are asking questions after what has happened. As I said, we need to find a good balance between control and trust. We still have to have a system that is essentially based on trust. It is absolutely essential to ensure what is the basis of a representative: the role of the Ombudsman. We see that there is a need for more control than what has been. I think most people are doing what they're going to do, in the right way, but we're probably more likely to need irregularities to be discovered by the Storting itself. That is why it is commendable that the media is looking at the representatives. This is where the media do an important job. They carry out their important social mission, but errors should, in my opinion, preferably be discovered by the Storting itself first. Now the presidency has taken some important and good action, and that is good. We have to consider how these changes work over time. At the same time, I think, as I have also mentioned earlier, that there is a need for a few more samples. I would therefore like to repeat what I have said earlier: the Presidency should increase the use of samples to enhance the control of travel bills on the Storting. The Christian People's Party is therefore voting in favour of resolving the proposal from the Red, proposal No. 4 – only that – in addition to the presidency position. It's not about a full review of all travel bills, it's important to underline. We're not going to lay the groundwork for everyone's suspicion. It would be completely wrong to do that, precisely based on what I have said about trust. Not least, it will be very bureaucratic. But some more random checks I think will be in everyone's interest and sharpen the readiness and attention to do things in the right way. Otherwise, I have confidence that the presidency will follow up this matter in a good way. It will be important for the story of the Greatness. But most importantly, of course, we as representatives take our job seriously also in this area, so that everything goes right. I guess we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e141	In October came the Aftenpost’s first detection of extensive abuse of allowances for grossing-up representatives. One was taken for having paid tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of kroner improperly. In 2017, 1.048 people were reported by Nav for social security fraud, with an average amount of NOK 170 000. That has to be equal to the law. Red therefore asked the presidency to report to the police on this big business representative, and we asked for a full review of the Storting's travel guidelines, especially in terms of documentation and approval. Only the point of documentation was followed up with new requirements. A few months later, in January, the NRK came up with a new revelation of how a claims representative misused the travel billing system to cover travel and hotels on mainly private errands. According to Stortinget’s second vice president, Morten Wold, the new requirements had to be given time to work, and the representative acted within the regulatory framework. Thus, the new disclosure formed the basis for tightening up and developing measures that had not been implemented in the past. That is why the proposal we are considering today was promoted by Red. It is an irony of fate that the evening post came with yet another revelation of extensive abuse of the travel billing system the evening before the presidency's position on this matter was given. Another representative had abused the travel billing system and had paid tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of kroner unfairly. That has to be equal to the law. Red therefore asked the presidency again to report to the representative. So maybe the presidency was a little lucky, because even if they reject Red's original proposal, there were some tightenings in the Storting Travel Billing System in the setting. This allowed the presidency to appear as a force for action. For every disclosure we have received in the media, the Storting has taken some mouse steps in the right direction, but the contractions have in common that they would hardly prevent the worst cases of abuse we have seen. That is also the case today. This is why Red is in favour of measures that address the structures that can increase confidence and stop what seems to have been an unculture among too many representatives of the Stortinget. We propose that the party groups should certify the service requirements of the representatives. Then there is no longer a relationship between just the representative and the administration of Storting, but also its own party. It can be done unbureaucratically, it can be solved in practice, and it allows the parties to assess the need to provide leadership beyond what is currently the minimum size. This was also the case until 2009. The party groups were then able to handle this. It should be fully affordable also ten years later. Yes, we are responsible to the population, but at the same time we also need control mechanisms. I think these revelations are clear examples of that. We also want information at the overall level on service requirements to be made available at the staging.no. There will be a relationship between representatives and the public — the population — and can be made with a frequency and a level of detail that does not compromise the security of the representatives. As it is clarified in the preamble that there is full transparency about the travel expenses of representatives only requested, this should be a narrow matter to be implemented. We also want a review, so that any remaining cases of extensive fraud with travel bills can be detected by the Storting itself, not by the media. It will increase confidence in the Storting, which, for understandable reasons, is weakened by these matters. In addition, we want to increase the use of samples to increase the control of travel bills, which is now supported by the Christian People's Party, and which can thus get a majority in the Storting if more parties land in the same way as the Christian People's Party during the day. We don't want to settle down and let the new requirements get time to work. We want measures that can be discriminatory, preventive and confidence-building, and with that, I would like to address the Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e162	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e167	It's an important thing we're discussing today. It is important that we have a system of trust that is easily understood by the representatives and where it is clear what is needed. At the same time, there are some principal, important things we have to look at. It's understandable that Red sees that certification in their party group is not difficult, but here's what we need to look at. We're actually selected here, and I don't want another country, from another state, from another country, to decide where I need to be to meet my constituents and address difficult issues in my territory. In fact, I am responsible for making an assessment of this. And then we have to have a system that allows me to document where I have been, and that I've been on a real mission when I've been out and gone. Therefore, I believe that what the presidency here has come up with shows that one is taking it seriously. It's not like we've come up with more revelations, we've moved on, we've actually worked on these things and we've done it in a good way. We must have cover for what we land on before we can put into action things. In this case, I think the presidency has seen things get going as quickly as we could. I think it might have been useful in many ways to start sampling, but is that what works best? We have to be allowed to look through a little, what might work better. Is it better that you can go with a controller where you see that there is something that is irregular, where one is a little insecure? There may not be any random sample checks available. I think it's important that the administration and the presidency together now see if there are other ways that are more accurate, where one with the same resources can actually get caught up in what's really happening, because that's what's important. Our trust doesn't tolerate many of these things, but we're forced to do it in a way that's convenient to do, and it's not about one of the groups listening to sit and certifying what we're doing. It's going to be a paper paragraph, it won't give you any backup for what you do. It is important that we dare to go through and see. I mean here we take long steps, and then we have to work on finding good solutions, so that we get a control function that works – not just paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e176	It's good that we have this discussion, also here in the hall. I think that is quite right in that this is a matter of our credibility as magnificence representatives. I have to admit that it is sometimes difficult to be a groping representative today, because we hear a lot of talk about ourselves that is not very good. Then we have to grips with what can do something about it. But I need to establish that we have very good rules for our travel expenses. We have very good rules on how to report it. They're almost 100 pst. the same as for anyone else who delivers travel bills. There's one small difference, and that's that we have no overall approval of the journeys we're going to do, and so we can certify them. After all, certification of travel must be because one at the same time acknowledges that the journey was for the right purpose and was carried out in the right way, and who in all the world would do it in my daily work as a magnificence representative? When I make an agreement with a company or a person who wants to take up a case with me somewhere in my home country, and I agree to drive and meet him, yes, I can assess it and have to stand by the decisions I make. That's the way it has to be, and that's just how it could be. Therefore, the certification of someone here on the house, whoever it may be, will be a skin manoeuvre that has nothing to do with restoring any trust that might have been lost. To this with samples, some people say we should start with samples. After all, sampling is carried out at all times. Or, what really applies is that everything we do has to be verifiable. That's why we have to attach an attachment, that's why we have to provide references, that's why we have to provide information that anyone who treats our travel bills can go in and check out. It is easy to do so, with mileage distances, tolls and appendixes for outlays. That's it, and that's it. That's what was tightened up, which attachments we were going to attach. It wasn't a whole new system. There was a tightening and advice on how to better document what was already in force. I think that's important. I think the proposals that lie here have good thoughts in them, but it's unexplained to say that we're now going to do more samples. How, and by what? I'm in the User Council. There we've discussed this in almost every meeting in the last six months. There's a lot of pressure on it. The presidency is working on it. We're looking at good solutions, because we're going to be retarded and re-tested. I think we should let that work go without making any other decision now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e187	Firstly, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party supports our proposal for more random samples. I hope that several parties can take another round on that proposal. There are some arguments against what I don't think is very convincing. If the Stortinget asks for more samples, I am sure it will be possible to carry out more samples without spending several years in finding out how it can be carried out. If it is willful, there is a way, even in the case of random samples, which is a rather moderate proposal that can help to strengthen confidence in the population. It's a trust that, for understandable reasons, has got some cracks, because of these revelations, which the media have come with, not the Storting itself. It is the media that have made the abuse of the schemes public and known to the population. The Storting itself has not been able to reveal. With regard to the issue of certification, today, the party groups have many functions around the representatives. Why should it be sacred to go through and look at the travel bill and except for the other functions of the party groups around the big business representatives? I believe that you should be able to see your party group in your eyes and stand upright and justify the trips you are making, without any problems. Of course, it will also be accepted when you have good reasons to travel, there are no problems around it, just as it was earlier on the Storting, that the party groups had a function to ensure an additional control mechanism around the journeys. So today it's the administration of the Storting that controls and then pays. We believe that an additional guarantee should be provided by certifying the batch groups. The User Council has rejected several administrative proposals. There is also some background to Red's taking the proposals for consideration in the Chamber, so that the parties get a thorough round on it and can consider the support of the various proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e196	It's good that we have this discussion. This matter has been difficult. Unfortunately, the media's constant attention to the 169 of the people elected representatives for travel activities has temporarily put this house in a bad light. But when the representative of Moxnes manages to say that this shows an unculture among the country's leading populace, I have to say that it is a powerful exaggeration. There are two representatives who have been cheated on their travel bills, and there is one case that can be said to have been in border countries. That is, they are capable of doing this in a very exemplary way, most people who have their work in this room. There must be limits to cutting all 169 over one comb, given that some extremely few have made mistakes. So to the proposal for certification in the groups. These 169 representatives deliver annually approx. 15 000 travel bills. If either they are to be pre-approved or subsequently accepted in each batch group, this will lead to increased bureaucracy, resulting in increased expenditure and unnecessary time-use. I can understand that it is relatively easy for a single person group, such as Moxnes’, to certify the travel bills – it will not require so much time use or increased bureaucracy. But that it should be necessary to do it for all of this house's 169 representatives, I don't think. I'm also going to like to see the representative in this room who is now, after the constant attention that Stortinget has been in on this issue in the last six months, delivers a travel bill that is not correct, or in the worst case, would contain fraud and fraud. That representative does not exist. In addition, the comment area on travel billing can be clearly stated if one has also been in private business combined with his service claim, and the requirement for documentation introduced by the presidency also reduces the chances of cheating. And so is the fact that the media carry out the check that Moxnes really wants on a daily basis. That's how I think we're doing very well with the constraints we've done, which now have to work over time, and probably will prove to be more than enough for this house to stick with a good set of rules for how we write our travel bills, and what we demand to be refunded. It is – again – an extremely, extremely few that have done something wrong with their travel bills, and we cannot cut everyone over the same comb as Moxnes wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e209	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e215	First just an explanation of a possible misunderstanding from the representative Wold: I don't cut everyone over one comb, but I think there has been an unculture among some representatives, and it is important that we take a settlement with it, and introduce systems and measures that can prevent that happening again and get unfortunate results that weaken the trust of everyone here in the house. It is one of the problems, that everyone is struck by the fact that some cheats, and then you have to see if everyone can go along with measures that can prevent, discipline and prevent this from happening in the future. I just remind you that several of our proposals originally come from the administration, but have been stopped in the User Council or in the presidency. I don't think sampling is the only blessing, but it takes the problems we've seen, and it will raise the threshold for those who had to try some shortcuts, when they know that the range of samples will increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e222	I won't go out the debate. We have a common wish, let's make it clear. We want us to have good systems that give trust to our representatives. But I have to remind you that 98,5 pst. has been through a historical thorough review of all travel billing of an external actor, namely one of the media houses, and has been cleared. We must not forget that. So this applies to a couple of very few things. So let's say here that the administration has put forward proposals that have been halted by the User Council. The User Council has no authority to stop anything. In addition, the administration has not ‘promoted’ proposals, but they have discussed different alternatives, possible solutions that they wondered should they continue to work with, and received feedback from the User Council. It's something completely different. One of the things that the user board was clear about is that we want to be checked on the verifiable, which is the rule in travel bills. We want to be tested on it, and the administration has said that they're going to keep working on looking at it. That's why I think it's a little strange to adopt something here today, when we know that the work is going on. So I just have to clarify: no, it's not just external media houses that find some things that we might have done wrong. I am absolutely sure that all the representatives have felt that they are getting a message back from the office handling travel bills, where they ask: What was the background to this annex? What was the background for it being like this? Why don't you have a return trip? We've all got that because they're going through and testing. One of the things that the Evening Post managed to look up as its result was actually the result of random checks in the system that the Riksrevision had done, and that they came up with something. So we shouldn't have the left-hand impression that the Storting doesn't figure out anything, that it's external that finds out everything, because that's not right, and I needed to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e233	It's an important debate we have today, and it's nice that it's also in the main hall and not just in the media, where we've been discussing this a lot over the past six months. The representative of Moxnes has addressed the changes made in 2009. There was a reason for those changes. I would say that after 2009, when the Group grant scheme was introduced, we have seen a significant increase in travel activity among the big business representatives. It's a travel business I want to defend. I believe that big business representatives who are available, who are going out, who are not doing their work just inside this house, but who actually meet people out – traveling in a nursing home, looking for individuals, seeing how things are going on in the industry – are the kind of big business we're going to have. We are not going to have large-scale representatives who are just sitting inside this house and receive visits from those who have the opportunity to come here. Of course, we need a strict system. I just have to remind you of what has been said earlier in the debate: we have a system that is close to what is in the state and private sector. The only relationship that separates us is the certification. I think several others have explained very well why it is actually a greater control that it is the Administration of Storting that controls travel invoices according to the regulations, than that there should be a party trap in the party office and approve a journey such as this. I'll do it. It's a much closer and closer relationship, I would say, than that it's the Administration of Storting, which has a code that we've been changing over the past ten years, and which should be sufficient to carry out the necessary control to have confidence in the systems we have here on the Storting. We need an accessible magnification, we need representatives who take this job seriously. An important part of it is travel, and I know that everyone agrees. And then we all, all of us, must help to gain the trust we are given, in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e244	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e258	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, in addition to the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e267	Then the time has come to look at the state of the kingdom in terms of equality. The Council of State gave its statement yesterday, and today we have the debate. In the debate there have been some proposals from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. I would just like to comment briefly on the proposals of the Workers' Party. We think the idea of gender-neutral titles in every state's businesses is very good. We will support that. We've already started – the health sister has become a health care provider. State councillor Monica Mæland has taken an initiative to rename the councilman, but the municipalities were not quite excited about it. I think the Storting must also be allowed to believe something about it. With regard to the other proposals, I think that proposal No. 1 may be covered by proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Workers' Party can comment on this for itself. We also have the title employed as part of this. We support the other proposals in so far as they are intended. Action plans, strategies and policy initiatives are being worked on. We could imagine that the Workers' Party left this at the treatment today, so that it was sent to the department. We will support that. I will come back to some of the suggestions in a later article. My concern today is that we have too few women in top management positions in business. We don't have enough women as board members in big companies. We have too few female entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. Yeah, where are the girls? This is happening despite Norway being one of the world's most equal countries. As explained by the Council of State, all the arrows point in the right direction. Part-time jobs are falling, there are increasing numbers of women in work, more women are now seeking human-dominated occupations, and we have more female professors. In fact, there are as many women as men who take doctoral thesis at the university. The women have taken up the defense. We have female prime minister, female party leaders, female prime minister, and the Supreme Justice is a woman. But we have a piece left. It's great that the government has spent $2 million. kr for measures aimed at increasing the number of female top executives in business. I'm interested in hearing what the Council of State actually thinks is going to do to get this. One of the challenges is that women do not start their own businesses. Only three out of ten newcomers in the country are women. In fact, Norway is one of the countries in the world where there are few female entrepreneurs. It shows international studies. It can simply be wondered whether women are being encouraged or unloaded into the public sector. Is it safe and predictable that lures? Women dominate the public sector, they are in the majority in the care sector and in schools and kindergartens. I look forward to seeing the results of the Government's Women's Founding Action Plan. I am pleased that the instruments in the action plan are precisely to promote women's entrepreneurship in the health and social sector. It must be possible, if you are a trained nurse, a teacher or a researcher, to find a job within the private sector and simply start your own business. In the past, there was no tradition or culture of starting a private hospital or hospital, but the system of free choice of home care and home care has opened up the possibility. There are also greater opportunities today in the kindergarten sector, for example. Many girls will, but do not venture in. Then it's a little sad, when you go into the private sector in the health and social sector, to get to the point that you're a welfare profit. I encourage the left-hand side to look at this with new eyes. It is a bit a shame that the privately-started Mangle Home, with the female leader, who established sports bubble and spa, must simply transfer the business to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e292	The Minister for Equal Opportunities said yesterday that Norway is high on the statistics of the world's most equalised countries. We do, we're all happy about that, but it's not random that we do it, and it didn't come of itself either. We've had courageous politicians who realized that equality pays off, not just for the individual in terms of increased freedom, but for businesses and businesses, yes, for society as a whole. These politicians took tough, controversial political choices that through history have led us to be there today, step by step, reform reform – steps and reforms that the right side has fought against and fought against every single time. With parental leave, later father's quota, childcare, a work environment law with regulated working hours, several welfare schemes that have made it possible for both women and men to combine family life with working life — Norway became one of the world's richest countries as well. When equality didn't come by itself, it's also like we can't take it for granted. It requires targeted and active action to maintain and increase it. We have enough of the challenges in Norway today, including in the gender equality country of Norway. We are still not there that mother and father or two of the same sex that have children are viewed as equally good caregivers –. The kindergarten of my son is mostly calling me and not to the father when the child is ill. Pregnant girls are discriminated against in the workplace because they are pregnant. Many girls in particular, but also boys, are subjected to social control. Metoo has put the spotlight on sexual harassment. It's terrible to think about how many of the ladies of what we can call the "gold" in the workplace, in the hotel, restaurant, cleaning and service industries, have it at work every day. Still, ladies only make $85 for every hundredfold of men serve. The list could have been much longer. The Minister for Gender Equality also raised many of the challenges we have in his speech. The sum of this is that too many of the small and big choices we make are governed by the fact that there are different expectations related to the genders. It also means that although we in Norway now have legal and formal rights, we do not have equal opportunities in practice. The Labour Party will continue. Over the eight red-green years we put on equality, and that gave results. We had a massive effort against part-time work. We made changes to the laws and measures that still work. The Council of State boasted of it in its speech and took credit for it, but there are measures and efforts that are not from her government – she did not put in it until last year – but that the right-wing government has deliberately weakened by cutting those measures. What remains after this government is that they put equality in reverses by cutting and removing much of what has worked, much of what has made us one of the world's most equal countries, by attacking women's right to self-determined abortion, by cutting in the father's quota, by longer kindergarten cows and higher prices, increased cash support, a weakened labour environment law, etc., etc. It's nice that the government has acknowledged and talked about that we have gender equality challenges, but then it's all the more strange that they won't do anything to them. On the contrary, in this right-wing government, we now have a child minister who believes that it is good to discriminate against homosexuals, as long as it takes place in the name of freedom of faith, and we have a former minister from the Progress Party who believes that equality is an elite project. Yeah, it's not nice that it happens little. We need a real commitment to equality, to structural equality. From kindergarten to school to work – it is only the classic, broad equality policy that can bring about lasting change. It costs money. This also recognised today's Minister for Gender Equality when she was head of opposition. When the right-wing government presented the gender equality message, the Left and Christian People's Party joined us in the Labour Party, and together we promoted over 80 proposals for a more offensive gender equality policy. Then the Council of State agreed that the right-wing government lacked both an analysis of what changes the crooked structures of power, and that they lacked the will for action. Now the council itself is the head of the whole thing, but it seems that it is still the right-hand side that sticks out the course, unfortunately. The Labour Party will continue. We often promote equality policies in this Chamber. Today, we are promoting eight proposals in several areas of society. It's about everyone being able to live a free life, not having to take the small and big fights to live a free life alone, but about the community doing what they can to set up and take the fights with them. I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e313	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e318	The right to decide about my own life, I think, is one of our most important equality struggles. As the Minister explained yesterday, the government has taken a number of measures to combat, among other things. social control. Unfortunately, we see that many of the backward English religious norms from which many women have fled are actually practiced in Norway today. I have to say it made a very strong impression, a meeting I had with Born Free in connection with the March 8 marking this year. The only checkers were to see how they met on March 8th of this year. These are precisely women who have a voice that may not have escaped to the extent that it should have done before, and who really set up, among other things. social control under debate also in our country. In no way shall oppression be tolerated. I think it's a little special when the representative from the Workers' Party is talking about the government's reverse policy in the field of equality, when one can really take a real grip on the repression that one sees, among other things. culture of honor, negative social control, child marriage, sexual mutilation and use of women’s oppressive garments. It's an unculture that's not to be accepted in our society. At least the Progress Party has dared to take the toughest debates and dare where others have hesitated. We know that many women are still under pressure and are forced to wear lucky garments. We know that you accept and tolerate oppression of women. I don't think you should do that, whether it's religious or so-called culturally justified. That is why it is an important impact for the government to now look at an extension of the alert obligation for abuse. In 2014, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress reported that several thousand women in Norway have suffered sexual mutilation. The government is now going in to extend the alert requirement for, among other things. Gender mutilation, and I think that is one of several very important measures. With the new changes to the penal code, parents who have subjected their children to sexual mutilation or who have not prevented this type of offence will be punished. We have to dare to admit that parents are always responsible for following up their children, no matter where in the world they live. It's also an equality fight. The same applies to care failure. It is also clear that punishment should be applied when children are sent out of Norway to Quran schools where they experience abuse, forced marriage, torture and other types of assault. It is clear that Norway will take the lead in the fight and also pursue the parents who allow it. Freedom must never be taken for granted. I think maybe one of the great highlights of the gender equality fight last year was when we debated in this room and passed a ban on child marriage. Norway has a unique opportunity to take the lead in international work. Now we know that the government is also looking at the possibilities of how to deal with matters where you know that children's brides have come to Norway, and look at the legislation on how to do something in that field as well. For the Advancement Party, the girls' right to decide about their own lives – as I said in the introduction – is perhaps one of our most important women's struggles. This is true in Norway, but it also applies internationally. That girls or boys should love whom they want, that they should be free to marry whom they want, and not live in fear of punishment from their own family or from an environment, we take for granted, but these are freedoms that are still under pressure. I am sure that at least the government and its parties will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e335	We are here today and can be very grateful for the fight that the women's movement has waged for us. There have been strong women who have gone ahead and fought through important victories of feminism and freedom. For where we stand today, has not come of itself. It hasn't come because some power person randomly found out that it was tricked with equality. No, we have come to where we are today, through active equality policies because the movement has fought, because we have changed both laws and attitudes and challenged oppressive structures. An example of this is the parental leave scheme. It has been violently debated several times, but it is extremely important both because it is good for the children to join both caregivers, it is good for the fathers to spend time with their children and not least to have a more equal working life where women get more opportunities to be out of work after having a child. However, Norway is not yet equal. Active gender equality and liberation policies are still needed. Overall, from the pay gap between women and men through sexual harassment and to negative social control, many of the same oppressive structures are involved. It's about women getting less power and fewer opportunities than men systematically. The great example has recently been the social revolution of the Metoo campaign, which has drawn attention to something we have known for a long time, namely that sexual harassment is a social problem that hinders women's freedom and opportunities. There's a lot of numbers out there -- one of them is 43 pst. of all women over 17 years of age. They say they've been exposed to unwanted and offensive attention around their own bodies and sexuality. It shows that this is a societal problem that needs to be addressed by action at community level, through policy action. That is why I am proud that in SV – together with the women's movement – we were able to take advantage of our proposal to introduce a low-threshold offer to enforce the ban on sexual harassment. It was adopted here in this hall last year. Now it's done. We are very pleased about that. It gives justice and protection to the victims, who today in practice do not have a place to take their cases. The more important it is to continue the effort, and then there is little to pick up from this government. Although the Left was out in the media and demanded it, there never came any metoo-millions in this year's government budget. After all, both low-threshold services and enhanced activity and reporting obligations stem from the opposition’s impact. Therefore, SV will continue to fight sexual harassment. In the Chamber today, we are promoting two proposals on this. We promote proposals to get the prevention and follow-up of sexual harassment into the provisions of the Working Environment Act on HMS, and to give high priority to HMS work, including through: training of safety officers. It is now also time to get policies for the labour market. Then we answer Ea, Ellisiv and Ella's story that the metoo campaign never reached the schoolyard. We propose our own programme to prevent and combat sexual harassment in schools, which includes action plans and guidelines for dealing with harassment in all schools. There are many things you can mention. One of them is a little bit in the extension of sexual harassment, and that's the more widespread violence against women. We don't know, unfortunately, that's not going in the right direction. One in ten women is subject to rape. We've seen an increase in reviews in the last five years, while the average figure for the resolution of violence in close relationships is only 33 p.m. This has led the UN Women's Committee to criticise Norway several times in order not to manage to protect women from violence and abuse. Therefore, action is needed. We need our own teams in every police district that can work against violence in close relationships. In order to achieve real equality, we also need financial autonomy. Violence, for example, is often linked to economic dependence. The council said yesterday that it's going forward, but at the pace of the day, we won't have closed the pay gap until about 50 to 100 years. So slowly it goes. It shows that we need a much more active gender equality policy than this government provides. That's why we're going to continue the fight that's been conducted for generations to give everyone equal opportunities, regardless of gender. It's a freedom fight. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e358	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e363	When we debated the government platform in this room a little earlier this year, I said that I was pleased with two things: firstly, because we have received a government platform that provides a good basis for pursuing a good, inclusive gender equality policy, and secondly, because the Left has been responsible for the equality area in government, a responsibility that has been high on our wish list for a long time. The gender equality area is an area that has been very important both now and historically for the party and – as we also know, as others have pointed out – very important for the country and for the economy of the country. Equality has come a long way since the Left, as the first party, proposed voting rights for women. But many struggles remain, and I think that the Council of State sketched in a good way in its presentation yesterday. Left heaths on a modern diversity society with space for everyone, where we can all be ourselves, have the same rights and get the same opportunities. Such an inclusive definition of equality is what we, after all, are fighting for. We must combat structural gender differences, but also gender equality challenges related to age, ethnicity, religion, disability, sexual orientation and not least gender identity. Equality policy is all about all of this, and it is an important difference that it should be placed under a party leader who is liberal at the moment, I must be allowed to point out. Earlier this year, I was so lucky that I was part of the Norwegian delegation to the UN Commission on Women, this at a time when we see clear steps backwards for gender equality work globally, where we have a major act that forces funding organisations working for sexual and reproductive health rights, and where more and more countries introduce laws and rules that prevent people from living a free life where they can experience full equality. Then I knew that it was good to know that, after all, we in Norway are all inter-politically united about the major lines of equality policy. Not least, it was good to have a Council of States that said clearly in the Commission meeting what needs to be done about the rights of skeptics, to ensure access to safe abortions, to give girls equal rights to school — and more important issues that I think provoked many of the other audiences in that room. Because that's what the government's policy is. We need a forward-looking unbalanced policy where we're able to see tomorrow's gender equality challenges, and that's what this government is doing. A good example of this is the penetration of the Left for a reinforced spring quota and the third for the parental pen. Back to the UN Commission on Women: Earlier in the spring, one of the main campaigns of women and men around the world was Share the Care – part care – because we know that there are structural obstacles that make the choices we want to be free, actually not free. We've been doing that for a long time, and as a country, we've been doing something about it since 1993. And now, after 26 years of birth rate, we've come to the conclusion that we have a model that gives parents equal rights, a model that Iceland was actually first out with. Then there are clear things that remain, and I sympathise with SV's proposal on exit rights. This is something that the Left has also proposed several times in the past, but which is clearly a budgetary issue and must be dealt with in this context. Another example of a clear challenge that this government is actually addressing is the low-threshold offer for dealing with sexual harassment issues. Then it is useful and timely to point out to the representative of Övstegård that this was despite everything that was proposed by the Left in 2016 and was repeated by SV – in a good way, correct – last spring. I am glad that that round came to an end and that it is now possible that this could become a reality when we in the Committee are going to examine this proposal. So I would like to comment on some of the proposals that come from the Workers' Party on gender-neutral titles, which I also think are good. But it is also timely to remind the representatives from the Workers' Party that the Left had a proposal in 2015 and 2016 to do just that. Then there were two parties who voted in favour. It was the Left, and it was the Greens' Environment Party. Much remains to be done in gender equality. I'm glad we got a good account yesterday, and I'm glad that we are now going to have a good debate on a matter that, after all, is important to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e382	Although I have enough of hens to pick politically with the parties in the position, I want to start my post today with the fact that yesterday's equality policy statement to me was a positive experience, because it showed with a lot of good numbers some of what I think is it all, the very best thing about running politics, namely seeing the results of active politics really working for the best of society, and not least that there's a lot of power behind politics when we're agreed on cross-political. It has also been very inspiring in our time to travel internationally with the Asian delegation and with the family and culture committee, and then in a cross-political community, to promote Norwegian equality policy and to experience that other countries really listen and will learn. As the Minister pointed out yesterday, gender equality struggle and policy have contributed incredibly well to Norwegian society, such as the fact that women's entry into the labour market has contributed financially to the Norwegian welfare community by as much as 3 000 billion. kr, which also the most intimate opponents of feminism and equality here on the mountain have had to take over, and which many countries want to follow us in in order to achieve growth and development. And few – if any – can underestimate the importance of gender equality policies in raising human rights, as well as the tranquillity, stability and quality of life in a country. But – equality has not come about by itself, and even more equality for both different sexes and for very many other groups is not going to come about by itself. It needs action, and it needs to be management and policy to, where equality sometimes has to trump other good purposes and purposes – simply. In my previous job as P3 editor-in-chief, I have experienced so many times that active gender equality policy works. As a state enterprise, the NRK has had active gender equality work and now has as many female leaders as male. The requirement for female participation and, subsequently, diversity in other areas has borne fruit in substance. For example, Norway is currently experiencing a flow of successful female artists also internationally — and that’s very funny. My claim is that without the strong demand for female participation in just P3, the arena that contributes most to the success of new artists here to the country, we wouldn't have been close to that situation. So I know that equality measures work. It brings me back to this hall. Because although all parties here agree that equality is important, we do not agree on how many and what concrete measures must be taken politically. Over the last few years, we have had equality ministers who have been most concerned about talking about gender equality first and foremost, and that it does to change attitudes, which in turn magically means that we do, for example. more equal pay for equal work for enterprises, which is just not happening. It must be more than just talk to raise the proportion of women in business, reduce the proportion of women working part-time, integrate different other groups better into work and society, reduce violence and hate crime against women and other vulnerable groups, etc. It must be said, however, that in my party we are not so happy with too much government governance and bureaucracy either in business, in the municipalities or in the families, so we are not among the most progressive parties to introduce too many and concrete measures in the field of equality, either. We believe that it may be worth working extra to find good measures for gender equality that do not affect other areas unnecessarily. That is why we are in favour of the certification system for enterprises that the world's best country in equality, Iceland, has introduced as equality measures. But of course we'll wait and see how it also turns out negative. We've programmed three-part parental leave, because it's good for equality. But we have also pointed out that it does not come without a price for some. That is why we are not strangers to looking at derogations. We are otherwise of course positive to the work the Minister for Gender Equality described yesterday to be done in different areas, but we could in several areas think more. For example, it is still incomprehensible to me that when we in the Central Party put forward proposals for an action plan against racism and discrimination last year, the rest of the Stortinget would not let it deal with a group that is definitely discriminated against, namely people with disabilities. They were simply discriminated against in the discrimination work here in this Chamber. And we could probably think of even more measures in the fight against sexual harassment. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the Storting has previously come together unanimously on something, and now looks forward to an overall increase also being behind the coming, important law on the establishment of a low-threshold offer and a strengthening of the obligation of activity and presentation. There are too many groups and individuals who need us in this very room to avoid being discriminated against and violated. For your part, I therefore hope for even more equality-promoting decisions in this Chamber, preferably cross-political. But it cannot be just words, it must be concrete measures. With this, I signal that we in the Central Party are going to support a number of the loose proposals for actions promoted in the Chamber today, and encourage all other parties to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e412	In order to manage the future well, we need to learn from the past. The Christian People's Party has a proud party history in the gender equality field, with Valgerd Svarstad Haugland as Minister for Gender Equality. She was considered a radical, and it was probably the most because she showed the will to use political instruments in the field. She made sure that educational institutions got better conditions to practice radical sex quotas, and she got legal protection against sexual harassment. Together with Laila Davøy, she started the process that ensured more women in Norwegian government rooms. In addition, she made the proposal which extended the principle of equal pay for equal work and that the right to equal pay for equal work should be practised across professional and collective agreements, which have meant a great deal in the fight for equal pay. Yes, Valgerd was radical, brave and wise. She made sure that equal opportunities did not just exist on paper. She seized to make equal opportunities a reality for women as well. We've come a long way since that time. We've learned from the past, and we have to keep doing that. But we must not believe that we are in the end. Gender equality challenges remain high both in Norway and internationally. We, as individuals, and not least as elected politicians, have a responsibility to be conscious of this. We cannot close our eyes to the equality challenges we face and to which the presentation to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality refers. We know that women are subjected to violence and abuse. We know that women and men are discriminated against in the workplace, that women earn less than men, and much less have leadership positions. We know that girls and boys are treated differently and get different possibilities based on what sex they have. We know that in many countries it is much less likely that you are born at all and receive education, work or a good life if you are a girl than if you are a boy. For my part, therefore, equality is mostly about the view of man – the human world. Human dignity is, as we know, important to us in the Christian People's Party. We're the family policy party. However, let me clarify how important a good gender equality policy is for good family policies. As a woman and mother, I would say that these two are not in contrast to each other, but are linked together as a symbiosis that reminds us of the enormous values that are influenced by the management of these two. One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to enable parents to combine family life and working life. The right to go to work and not choose between family and work has been central to the struggle for women. The Christian People's Party believes that working life should adapt to family life and not vice versa. Equivalence and equal opportunities cannot be set up against our need for a good family life. A good society is based on the premise of family and children. Many assume that it means less equality, but that's not true. Family life is also best when it's characterized by equality and equivalency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e430	I want to thank you for the posts that have been held so long. I am very happy that there is a long list of speakers also after my post, but I want to comment on some things. Firstly, the term ‘equality in reverse’ applies. Yes, there are some things happening: the Dad quota has increased, the use of cash support is falling, the use of kindergartens is rising, the use of time is falling, the wage differentials are falling every year, there are several female leaders, and we have promoted a number of amendments to Norwegian legislation on both reporting requirements and strengthening work against sexual harassment. I think I have to say that if it's going in reverse, then we disagree on where the forward direction is really. The representative of Sem-Jacobsen is very right in one thing: there is a great deal of consensus about Norwegian gender equality policy. But it's not right that it started in the 1970s; Norway has been in the front for 100 years, some historians claim that we may have been in the front much longer than that. It is important to take it on board, because when you travel internationally and talk about Nordic wealth, it is linked to oil for Norway, but it is quite clear that women's participation in professional life is a far greater reason for Norwegian well-being than oil is. It is just to look at the Nordic model of high female participation, which means that all Nordic countries have good welfare systems and good value creation – because we have a high level of professional participation from both sexes. It's worth telling when you're abroad. To put it that way: there are many countries that have high oil revenues, but where there is a lack of equality, they still do not have a good, equivalent society with good value creation. I think that I must also be allowed to comment on this attack, the fact that now the Left is in government, and that all we are doing now in government, is actually the opposition that has been passed on to. To put it in a slightly different way: the left means the same thing in government as when we sat in opposition, just that now we're in government and can actually do it. When we have then completed the third division of parental leave, there is also a tough choice today. I think everyone who's been following Guri Melby on Twitter knows that it happens that you get a little bit of a shudder to stand at that point of view. In fact, the major reforms have often been carried out by civil governments, as pointed out by the Christian People's Party on the reforms carried out under the Bondevik II regime. I got some challenges here related to women entrepreneurs – what is the reason why so few women entrepreneurs choose to ‘found’ businesses? Of course, some of this can be explained by the fact that we have a very gender-based labour market, and that women are present in that part of the labour market where we have little tradition of entrepreneurship. Innovation through entrepreneurship in the public sector we have very little tradition and very little acceptance for. I also believe that the debate on welfare professionals makes it even more difficult for women to be entrepreneurs in their field. We have a lot of simple stories that tell us about it. But I also believe that strengthening the social rights of entrepreneurs is important to get women to ‘found’ businesses. This is why the government has made sure that in every budget we have managed to do one trick for small entrepreneurs to make it easier for them socially, so that they should not take so much risk associated with unemployment, sickness, disease in pregnancy – all the challenges associated with uncertainty and, as we know, the reason that many women do more to ‘found’ businesses. Then I will just comment briefly on the proposals that are available – so that is clear. With regard to the proposals relating to gender-neutral titles, I think these are good proposals; these are proposals which at least the Left has promoted many times in the past. We know that it's working in government and from many different teams to make titles more gender neutral, like the fight against the concept of councillors. Now we've got a health nurse. The midwife concept has been heavy, it suggested the Left here in the Storting to change, it's very difficult. I think we need to fight to get more gender-neutral titles to make it open. As regards proposal No: Three, that's a proposal that we're now putting into practice. Proposal No. 4 are measures that are already in the action plans. With regard to the human role selection, I think it's an exciting debate, but we're going to get a new young-on-day selection coming to the harvest. It's going to affect a lot of those parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e453	It'll be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e458	In its presentation, the Council of State commended the situation of very many, especially young, LHBTI people in Norway today with major challenges related to shame, invisibility and other issues. The representative of Almeland said in his speech that he is pleased that the government has a liberal minister for equality. The Supreme Government has a Conservative Minister for Children and Family Affairs who, not many days ago, said that he believed that discrimination against gay children and young people can be defended as long as it takes place in the spirit of freedom of belief. What does the Council of State think of such statements by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e465	I will be quite honest with the representative that I have not read all that the Council of State said, but we have a clear regulation on what, for example. associations are allowed to engage in influence work in order to change e.g.: People's sexual orientation. I believe that we really have a very good law for this, but in many areas we have not been good enough to enforce this law. Now there's going to be a new law for religious and life-viewing societies to the Storting – I have at least helped to draft it – and there's also going to be an important debate in Stortinget, I think, on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e470	The Minister for Gender Equality is the Council of State for the LHBTI part of the population. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs was to be a Minister for Children and Family Affairs for all children and for the whole diversity of families. I believe that by his statements in connection with the Christian People's Party national meeting, he shows that he is not. Of course it's freedom of faith. People must be allowed to believe and believe what they want, but we expect a child and family minister to take a clear distance from telling children and young people that they are inferior because they are lesbians, gays, biphiles, or transpersonals – whether they are about expressions that are said on the basis of culture or on the basis of religion. Does the Minister for Gender Equality think it's okay that the Minister for Children and Family shows the kind of attitude for the open stage, and what kind of signal does she think it sends to all the crooked LHBTI children and young people who are already sitting and feeling that life is out of control?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e479	I assume that when the state councils speak on behalf of the government, they actually express themselves on government policy. And the government's policy is quite clear here: we want to combat all the discrimination, all the violence and all the threats that our perverse part of the population is actually experiencing. It's a fight we have to take every day. That's why we're now trying to strengthen the work related to hate crime. We have action plans in this area, and I assume that the Minister for Children and Family also shares the government's objective in the action plans we have to combat this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e484	Of course, I fully agree with the Minister for Gender Equality on this, but this is just another example of the gap that exists, and the different opinions that exist within this right-wing government. Yes, we have a liberal equality minister, but we have a stick of conservative children's and family ministers, and there are various signals sent out by whom to speak. In the same interview, the new Minister for Children and Family Affairs also said that children have the right to a mother and a father, and that it was important. I wonder what the Minister for Equal Opportunities thinks about such a statement. What kind of signal does the Council of State think this sends to skeptical families — and to children in skeptical families? And is that the government's view of what a family would prefer to look like?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e491	I think families should rig so that there are as many good adults as possible who take care of any child, and it's amazing, no matter who it is that takes responsibility around a child. I think it's very stupid if the child just has to have a mom and a dad. I think there are many -- aunts, uncles, grandparents, girlfriends of mommy, etc. – which can help create a good network around them. The prerequisite for having a good growth is to have a lot of adults around them. We also know that there is a safe child feeling by having many adults around him – that one does not always have to be afraid that something is happening to Mom in the car on the way home from work, because then no one has around them. It is important that all children have many adults around them that can be safe for them. We must have the opportunity to have a debate where parties can also have a primary position, and yet some position that one has in government. I know, for example. that a third is not all the government parties that agree, but the Left was permeable for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e498	In a debate like this, there are an incredible number of things I would like to raise with the minister, but I choose to follow up the representative of the Trettebergstuen on the occasion that we have a child and family minister who has the statements he has in view of our LHBTI people. Yesterday I had a meeting with Skeiv World, and together with other organisations working to improve the situation of LHBTI people, they experience a lot of activity from municipalities, from the environment and from individuals who want their help to improve the situation. It is the Minister of Culture who can contribute to these organisations and the fires that work to improve the situation of people and young people who know a lot about discrimination and pressure. I hope and believe that the Minister can give some signals if she intends to strengthen their work further financially in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e503	I have to start by saying that the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, has a very good point in saying that these are doing a great job, and they're doing a great job for individuals who have tough thanks. There is a great need for schooling in very many areas – there are a lot of people who want to be better in this field and who are applying for knowledge through these organisations. I've met everyone now, I think, and I agree with the representative's analysis that they're doing a great job. If there is anything else in the budget, we have to wait until the budget comes. But I want to be part of recognising the job they're doing to help a lot of people who have tough roofs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e508	In the series of last weekend conservative outcomes from one of the ministers of equality, we have the Christian People's Party's latest attacks on the parental leave system, which is so important, among other things. equal opportunities in the labour market. It will now have a rematch with the Christian People's Party. We then find ourselves in a situation where all sides of the Government of the Minister for Equality are opposed to this system, while all opposition parties support it. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: when there is such a massive undermining of one of the most important equality measures we have had in recent years, from the government's own parties, is the Minister for Gender Equality sure that, after any new bourgeois majority, we will also have equal parental leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e514	The representative of the Supreme Court is quite right that it is absolutely essential to have a large Left to achieve good equality policy. We have now got it better than when SV put in government. We are now in the front line of the world on gender equality in parental leave and better than SV did in conjunction with the Workers' Party. It's a very reverse situation, when you're both going to shut up because you're in government with someone who thinks something, and then you're going to shut up because you won the case. You have to decide what to attack us for. We have implemented a gender equality reform that is quite historic, with a third of the parental leave. We're really excited about that, but it's clear that it was a prerequisite that the left was there to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e519	It may be bad for the equal parental leave scheme when it looks like it does on the civil side of the policy. But we can hope that there will be a clear red-green majority in the future that has all the parties behind the arrangement. I would like to raise another issue that the Minister for Gender Equality and the Chairman of the Committee have had a small exchange on now. So this government is going to release profit in welfare as something positive for equality, we can register. At the same time, we know that there are men who own the big welfare groups that now operate commercially in public-funded well-being, and then there are women who work in front of them, for example. health and care. What else do we know? Well, we know that, for example. the pension conditions of women working on the floor of the competitive sector are declining. Does the Minister for Gender Equality think it is an equality measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e526	I'm not going to speak in the area of all other government councils, but it's quite clear that where women are dominant in the number of professionals, we see that there's little entrepreneurship in the innovation work going on. We have many examples of this -- we often use the two ladies who worked as nurses in the maternity ward. They found a new sheet for use in the food department, which would make the births much cleaner to carry out. They invented it, but had no fit for the healthcare system and had to sell their product to plumbers instead. They were able to see the joy of the product before they had the opportunity to enter the healthcare system. That kind of innovation is very bad for us. Then I am absolutely sure that the red-greens always tickle after we have implemented the major reforms. They did so when it comes to the holding company and gender distribution under Bondevik II, and they will do so in the case of parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e533	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e540	The Minister for Equal Opportunities began his statement yesterday that Norway is among the world’s most equal countries. She is right in that, in and on its own — also in her sober description of the gender equality challenges we still have. But it was strange to hear the Minister for Gender Equality yesterday, because we know what the parties in this government really think about equality. The Progress Party has set out in its programme that the relationship between sexes should adapt naturally without interference by public bodies, and will, as otherwise, have the market settled. The right is skeptical of any measure that could lead to increased equality. They call it state intervention in private lives. The Christian People's Party will have arrangements that make it possible for mothers to be at home. Once again, we have seen that the parental leave of the Christian People's Party goes up and down – now there are ten weeks to go back to. Left -- well, let me establish that there's a pretty big distance between the Left in the opposition and the Left in the position. Let me also remind you of what made it possible to form the government that is now sitting, namely that the Prime Minister put women's rights on the negotiating table. The result was a government that eliminates the right to self-determined foetal reduction, and a veto right to the Christian People's Party in matters relating to biotechnology – in practice, to halt medical advances that could give women more freedom. Our concept of freedom has always been different from that of the right. When the right-hand side talks about equality and freedom, they talk about the freedom of choice of the individual and ignore the structures within which we make our choices. They rarely ask, do all women and men really have the freedom to choose? When so many women work part-time, serve less than men in the same job, or are subjected to sexual harassment, it is not because they make wrong choices — even when they make other choices in life, where the assumptions and cards are distributed in a way that puts strong leadership on what they can do. That's because structures stand in the way of equal opportunities. They must be real, and they must apply to everyone. That's why we need cheaper kindergartens, a stronger gender equality agency, a better work environment law and retirement from the first crown, which gives low-paid women a fairer pension. Therefore, we have to dry to cancel, remove the cash support and have a continuous pressure to remove the involuntary part-time. We have to keep a long spring quota, where government parties go back and forth in their view of it. Since the Minister for Gender Equality first mentioned the statistics: Yes, Norway has increased steadily from 2017 to 2018, but we are still below the level we were at when the right-wing government took over. The history of Norway is that we chose policy measures to ensure equality. If we are to move on, equality policy must again become much more active than it is under this right-hand rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e561	Let me start by thanking you for a good gender equality policy statement yesterday, with a broad and inclusive stance. The Council of State shows us that equality games point in the right direction, and at the same time that equality challenges are becoming increasingly popular. The opposition is constantly trying to repeat the message that equality in Norway is in reverse with the Solberg government. Incorrect claims will not be more accurate even if they are repeated to the boring one. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. Of 149 countries, we are ranked No. 2 for equality. It cannot be the case that the debate on equality in Norway is to be conducted on the premises of the opposition. I understand that they themselves deserve to own the power of definition, but that's not going to be any more correct for that reason. In the name of propriety, we should be able to agree on objective criteria that say something about how far we have come as a nation in this area. Last week, an Ipsos survey showed that female respondents replied that equal pay is the main challenge of gender equality in Norway today, but also 25 pst. of men, this was an important issue. We have to take this most seriously, but we also have to be willing to see the positive developments that have been in recent years. 61,000 more women work full-time today compared to 2013. The gap between women and men has been reduced by one percentage point in the last two years. That means that women today serve better in relation to men than they did in the past. In addition, Norway has received 27,000 more female leaders since 2013. We still have a lot of work to do, but the red-green horror propaganda lacks arguments from reality. I Prop. 63 L for 2018-2019 comes the government with proposals for wage-fixing. This imposes an obligation on employers of public and private enterprises with more than 20 employees to carry out gender-based wage mapping. This will strengthen the prevention of gender discrimination through remuneration. A Danish study shows us that this helps to reduce the pay gap. The government has a broad and ongoing work to prevent pay differentials. The fact that both sexes are represented throughout the spectrum of professions is important in creating good role models, in order to ensure recruitment, in order to contribute with different perspectives in the workplace, in order to ensure representation and not least in order to reduce pay differentials. In the eight proposals from the Workers' Party today, they enter very many open doors. Let's put down the Ungidag selection. We have allocated money to actions that contribute to gender balance in education. We have established good measures for women’s health, an action plan against negative social control and, as the debate today indicates, a number of measures to promote increased equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e580	The fact that Norway is among the best in gender equality policy is not good enough. We should have ambitions to be the best country in the world, and that ambition is totally absent from government. This is the big picture: we see a setback for equality in many countries. It is an emergence of external policies and political parties with clear political objectives that put all gender equality work back decades. Equality, what's this about? There are structures that prevent people from being who they are. It is fundamental to all policies. We see the same trends in Norway: gender equality is becoming an additional area of policy. The Councils of State and several female government councils of the right-wing government say that we have female top leaders in politics and in important state institutions. That's good, but they've come there on a back porch of political struggle. It is not that women are always fighting for equality, which the Prime Minister's sale of women's right to self-determination is an excellent example of. We see examples of rhetoric and politics moving more away from a modern and forward-looking policy. I was at a debate directed by the Red Cross about negative social control, which they call a prison without a grid. Forced marriage and clemency are part of it, but also attitudes and structures in many religious and life - attitudes and structures that reduce children and young people’s right to evolve as they are or as they will be. An example is a young homophile who does not dare tell anyone, for he or she has learned that it is a sin. There are some of the real examples that the representative Pettersen is asking for in our debate. These are real people with real challenges. One of Jehovah’s Witnesses called me and told me about abuse in their own religious environment. She was told that this was going to suck in the heel, and that they would fix this within the congregation's four walls. This is the reality of the repression we have today, and the government has voted in favour of several proposals from the Workers' Party to address negative social control. Finally, I must say that I was very disappointed when I heard the exchange of lines between the Minister for Gender Equality and the representative of Trettebergstien. We clearly see a government that is divided into equality policies when it comes to the most basic value of all, that all people have equal value, and that all people have the same right to evolve into what they want to be, or to who they are. Now we see that the international rhetoric of the right has also reached the government with full weight, and it is regrettable that the Minister for Equality is unable to stand up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e597	Last week I was so lucky to meet two classes and their teachers from Kongsberg high school. It was health and growth classes. The students had prepared many questions they would ask to a magnificent representative, and most of the questions were about women's rights and equality. Why is Stortinget going to change the abortion law? Do you want to change the abortion law, as the government suggests? The Labour Party's policy is clearly no, but I told the students about Ingrid Ross Solberg, a retired teacher who has always fought for equality. I met Ingrid in both demonstration trains towards the right government policy. Ingrid wasn't alone this time. Now she had her granddaughter Helene, clearly proud of the granddaughter who wanted to attend. Ingrid was as engaged as ever, but also with a special feeling: Who would think that the battles we fought in the 1970s would be repeated in 2019, in Norway? Think we took those fights for granted, in our little country, Norway. Norway is a fantastic country, precisely because of the fight for women's rights and equality. The freedom we have in Norway, as many have pointed out, has not come about by itself. The struggle for freedom has always been held in this Chamber – the fight for workers’ rights, the fight for equality. It is sad to say that, but the fight for rights and equality has also often been about the fight against conservative right-wing policies. The fight against social control, negative social control, went the red-greens in the brink of it, and we've also gone into the brink of this in Stortinget. Freedom, democracy and equality are Norwegian values. Everyone has to live a free and independent life. Yes, we're talking about Norwegian girls who feel that someone decides who they're going to hang out with, how they're going to dress, and who they're going to marry. We have many brave voices that dare to settle. That is why Stortinget also has a responsibility to follow up with politics. That is why the Labour Party has had a number of political proposals. The commitment of religious communities to make an active contribution to mainstreaming and gender equality has been voted down by the right, 40 pst. women in the government of the religious communities have voted down the right parties and that the school should be a common arena regardless of the culture and religion of the students. Yeah, we've gone beyond the government when it comes to lucky facials in the public room. In Norway, whether you are gay or hetero, you must have the same opportunities and freedoms. No one is to be subjected to heat and discrimination. There, too, we have taken the lead by making political proposals. The fight for equality, freedom and democracy continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e612	I would like to start by addressing the claims that the left does not mean the same in position as when we are in opposition. I believe that the debate on the third division of parental leave is evidence of the opposite. Despite strong counter-powers in society, despite the fact that many of the parties we work with are about three-thirds – 15 weeks to mother and 15 weeks to father – the Left has fought it through, made sure that it has been adopted, and made sure that we have a historically long fatherly quota in Norway, it has never been any longer, which is an important contribution to long-term equality. It shows that the Left in Government provides a radical equality policy. I think it also shows that a civil government provides a good balance between freedom of choice, individual rights and equality. So I want to say that it's important to remember that a long spring quota is about more than equality. The main reason is the child’s need for father’s care and not least the father’s need for contact with the child. We know that we've achieved both of them by still expanding the spring quota. Many studies confirm this. In one study, there were, among other things, a male leader and father who spoke after their twelve weeks of paperwork: towards the end, perhaps the last week, I was quite emotionally moved and moved over that now it is approaching the end of the leave – may call it anxiety that you should return to work. I think that when men sit and feel what women have felt for many years, we have come a long way. There's an important job in getting even more men to get those experiences, so we're going to get more into gender equality. It's not like an extension of five weeks of Dad's quota automatically gives us more pay and more female leaders. This is something that contributes to changes in attitudes, but it takes a long time. My goal is for an employer to feel that it is just as risky to hire a man in his 30s as a woman, that there is as much danger that he will be absent in the care of children, and that men – just as women have always done – should think when choosing a career: how can this be combined with a good family life? These are changes that will take time to achieve. Employers must experience that men are as much away, and men must also experience how rewarding it is to be at home and take care of their children, and thus take greater account of it when choosing a career. Equality is not something that we can guarantee in a coward, and it is not a political decision that in itself ensures good equality. Nevertheless, ensuring shared care and shared responsibilities for children is perhaps one of the most important things we can do, and the next major step towards increasing equality in Norway. There are structural obstacles that make the choices that we would like to have been free, in reality it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e625	The gender equality work of the last decades has changed society. In several areas, it has led to greater equality between men and women. Then there are some who believe that the focus on women's challenges and the women's struggle may have contributed to a lack of attention on boys, men and fathers' life and gender challenges. I'm not taking a position on that hypothesis today. Instead, I'm going to promise that boys and young men dominate the statistics on both under-achievement and school dropout, drug abuse, violence, crime, unemployment, disability and suicide. We have a strong gender-based labour market in Norway. It also applies in the municipal sector. About 90 pst. by all the employees of kindergartens are women, 80 pst in primary school. New life patterns mean that some boys and young men get a woman-dominated growth. We don't know much about the consequences. Neurobiological research shows that boys' brains evolve in a different sequence than girls. Guys are after girls in language maturity. Some believe that this can affect the school performance of boys, and that some of the problems of boys in school can be attributed to their early start-up, based on the level of maturity. Perhaps the evaluation of the six-year reform should include that type of issue. Guys need male role models. That's not the men boys can talk to about boys' problems. Health sisters have now been given the gender-neutral title of health care professionals. That's good, it's a step in the right direction, but still they're mainly women. Few male psychologists make it difficult to meet the requirement that everyone should be able to choose the psychologist you want to go to. The working party is occupied by equal opportunities, regardless of gender. The equation does not go straight ahead. There are still massive challenges ahead of us. I've pointed out just a few of them. There is a need, we believe, for a sample to address the human role and the challenges of gender equality. And we believe that the government should develop a strategy to combat gender inequalities in education and working life. All in all, an intensified effort by the government is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e639	I want to mention that it is problematic that a government is made up of different parties. There are attacks on the programmes of the various parties, and then one forgets that these parties actually have a joint declaration, the Granavolden declaration, which points out the course. It's nothing new. I just have to remind you that the red-green government also consisted of different parties, where there were also things that were put in the drawer because one of the parties was opposed. It was the law of the right to determine the legal sex. Once the Minister of Health came to the chair, he brought the law out of the drawer, and it was adopted here in Norway. That's a big victory for a lot of people. So that's nothing new. I am also concerned that the Workers' Party is talking about basic structures for equality. Yes, it is important, but it is not said that you should talk down the freedom to make your own choices. That's exactly why we're changing. Because it's essential to be able to choose life's agenda, education, religion, clothing – there we've put in some modifications, but there the Stortinget has a consensus. We also, of course, have the freedom to choose a party. We're changing structures, so that someone can do it. But not everyone is allowed to make these own choices. The environment sets limits, and that is precisely why we have an action plan against negative social control, the right to decide for ourselves, with 28 measures. In particular, there are new measures aimed at those who actually have to break their environments and their families, those that we then help with housing, mentoring and guidance. It was not the Workers' Party that was the first to talk about sexual mutilation and coercion. It was actually the Progress Party that talked about, and I just have to admit that for many years you may not have listened to those voices, but they should actually have the credit for that. They were the ones who put this theme on the agenda, so commend them for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e648	Real pay, employment and pension conditions have been and are a battle cause for the Workers' Party. Having a wage can live off, security for work and security in the work situation, and not least a pension to live off after an end of professional career, gives freedom and economic independence, and thus also dignity. Unfortunately, we're not in the end with that for everyone yet. Every five workers in the country work in the municipal sector. In that sector, every two women work part-time. If we look in isolation at health and care services, work as much as 65 pst. part-time. It's security that gives freedom. But when you don't know how many guards you get next month, you don't know if you can pay your bills. Always having to be available to the employer in case there is an opportunity to take an extra guard, is not predictable, and it is not safe. You don't get bank loans for a dwelling in this situation, you're not financially independent. Then there is no freedom, then there is uncertainty and unworthiness and unfreedom that characterize everyday life. That shall not be the case and the impossibility referred to by the Council of State in its statement. We can agree that we have come a long way in gender equality here in Norway, but that does not mean that we are in the target. I understand that the government parties with the government council in the head need to be satisfied with the results, be satisfied with what has been achieved. But what we hear today almost overflows with self-satisfaction. That's why it was a sad round we heard from the Minister of Gender yesterday. Where are the ambitions to move on? Where is the drive to change society to get even better? Where are the tracks after the grips and the state councils going to have for equality? How will the Council of State improve the situation? In the Workers' Party, we want part-time life. It is a substantial contribution to improving equality, both for those working in the municipal sector — and that is reason enough in itself — and it is also good for the quality of services. We are committed to quality welfare, and then whole, permanent jobs with qualified staff who are allowed to use their skills and expertise are an important step. With our policies, municipalities would have been able to afford both to hire more people and to hire them as a whole, and to be able to finance the necessary levels of competence and carry out research projects on how this knowledge develops and what experience needs to be shared. In the long term, the objective must be to abolish part-time work. Of course, it should be possible to go into reduced positions in periods of life when the situation requires it, but the goal must be to have as many jobs as possible in all fixed positions – because it provides security and freedom for individuals, and because it provides stronger communities. It also gives, as the Council of State was concerned about, sustainability to the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e665	It's a topic that not so many of the representatives here in the Chamber have mentioned today, but that the Council of State talked a little about yesterday, which I would like to address. It's hitting a blow for the "functional," i.e. people with functional variations. I am pleased that they have now received a clear ambassador in the Council of State. Those of us who have some form of disability can and will do as much as anyone else, but face resistance every single day – a resistance with which we have the opportunity to do something. Because we are missing out on the contributions to all those who are prevented from taking part in the labour market, in volunteering, in politics or in the community. But the worst way out is the individual. Not being allowed to use their abilities, participate in meaningful communities, or be heard is not the basis for a good life. Once again, when we know that this is a group of people who like to be subjected to double discrimination and the consequences it brings, we know that it is now time that we made sure to change these structural barriers. But I'm not going to paint black, because luckily things are getting better, thanks to fires like Guro Fjellanger, former Environment Minister for the Left and active functional champion. After all, she was judging the first Norwegian minister with a visible disability, and just a few months ago she took the initiative to set up her own network for functionaries in the Left. The Government shall deliver a comprehensive report on the human rights and equivalence of the developing population next year. That's exactly the right focus. Just before Christmas, the government also provided its strategy for gender equality for people with disabilities, and I am pleased that the Minister for Gender Equality is now working on the action plan with all the measures to make this strategy concrete. We're going to give people meaning and opportunities back. The representative, Sem-Jacobsen, pointed out in his statement that we did not vote for any of the proposals in the previous round. It was precisely because this work, as the Council of State explained yesterday, is going on. But there are several concrete examples that I also hope my own Council of State and this government takes on, from big to big obstacles – as a blood donation; that people with hearing impairments are told that you cannot have an interpreter to give blood, and thus are not allowed to give blood. Or it could be an interpreter service that can't deliver interpreters to the hearing impaired, which means they can't participate in all the democratic arenas they should. These are completely concrete challenges that I hope my government will address. I'm glad that we have a government council that focuses functional rights on many fronts, because it's also about equality for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e680	We have a proud legacy. Norway is in the right place in the equality game. More children go to kindergarten, and fewer women work part-time. The figures also show that there are several women among professors at both universities and colleges. A lot has happened over several generations. Although Norwegian women have come a long time in 100 years, we also have a lot left. The population shall have equally good health services irrespective of gender. Historically, however, diseases that most affect women have gained less attention than diseases that most often affect men. It shouldn't be like that. We've done a lot to fix this, and we're going to do even more. Let's look at research first. Some diseases affect more women than men, and the same disease can affect women and men differently. We need more knowledge about this. The government will therefore continue to invest in researching women's health. It's important for participation, and it's important to be able to live a good life. So over to another field that occupied me specifically: business and health. There are many women in the health sector. Good ideas often arise in the environment where you work. One sees solutions for how the job can be done even better. In this context, I think we need more female welfare innovators. Then you will be forced to remove words as a ‘welfare profiter’. Let's delete it from the dictionary. Norway should be an attractive country for entrepreneurs both at home and from outside. The government, therefore, has the easier contact of entrepreneurs with the public sector, and we remove unnecessary bureaucracy. Bad framework conditions frame particular women. Finally. Norway is in the right place in the equality struggle and it is also going to be so in the case of women's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e701	The fourth year’s peace prize was in many ways an equality prize. Sexualized violence during conflict and war is the most dramatic and repulsive outcome of a lack of respect for human dignity. The shocking stories of the prizewinners from Congo and Syria should be enough to mobilise a joint action within the framework of the UN to make a quantum leap in improving women’s position, with particular emphasis on sexual health and unsafe abortions. Stories should be enough to inspire the current American administration to strengthen its international efforts in this field, but unfortunately the opposite has happened. It is nothing new that the United States is regularly attaching abortion and prevention conditions to its support for the part of the aid budget associated with family planning. What is new in Trump’s policy, ironically called Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance, is that the conditions for supporting NGOs working on such issues are linked to the entire US aid budget. More than 1,200 NGOs are now affected by this policy. Many are at risk of losing their jobs. American abortion panic recently called the Evening Post this policy, and I agree with the characteristics. I hope the Norwegian Government uses every opportunity to remind the United States of its moral responsibility in this way. Sexualised violence, failing family planning and lack of sexual education are interrelated. The glue of this tragic syndrome is the absence of respect for the rights of women, their dignity and their reputation. The result of this is, among other things, that every day about 830 women die during pregnancy and childbirth. 99 pst. deaths occur in developing countries – 830 cases that could have been avoided had the international community been aware of their responsibilities. Women die of bleeding, infections, high blood pressure during pregnancy, complications during birth. Some die of tropical diseases such as malaria — others of AIDS during pregnancy. Similarly, many of the unsafe abortions carried out under unsanitary conditions and lack of medical assistance die. Then we can be proud that Norway has, over many years, contributed to bringing down the high numbers, because it is a fact that between 1990 and 2015 pregnancy-related mortality fell by 44 pst., but the need for modern contraceptives and health information is still alarming. Efforts to get girls and women through school, which we know has a bearing on their sexual health, must continue and intensify. So today's number is 830, which could have been avoided. The question we should ask ourselves is, if we had experienced a plane crash every day where 830 people had died, what would the international community use of resources to avoid this happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e714	Our good economy and well-being are due, among other things, to: women’s participation in the labour market for the last 40–50 years. It is confirmed in an OECD report of 2018. The proportion of economically active persons is approx. 76 pst. in the North, and that's good. At the same time, the report states that if women are given the opportunity to work as much as men, gross domestic product may increase by 15-30 pst. So there are huge social benefits associated with men and women participating on equal terms in the workplace. As the Council of State said in its statement yesterday, we have come a long way in gender equality, but there is still a lot to be done before we are equal. The OECD points out that there are far more men than women in leadership positions. We have a sex-shared labour market, with women in the soft sector being overweight, and there are also far more women than men working part-time. To achieve a more equal society, I think we all agree that there needs to be more focus on power and influence, equal pay, gender role patterns and discrimination. Although Norway has been at the forefront of promoting gender balance and increasing the representation of women, both politically and in leadership positions, women are still under-represented in governance, advice and leadership. It may sound a little strange since we in Norway have women at the top of the state apparatus, with both female prime minister, foreign minister, prime minister, etc., but that is actually the case. In most areas of society, power is dominated, with the exception of government. A survey by the Statistical Centre shows that almost nine out of ten Norwegian business leaders are men. When Norwegian top leaders in 2000 were asked why there were so few Norwegian female top leaders, they said it was due to the women themselves. In 2015, 75 pp. that it may be because a lot of recruitment takes place through informal networks. There's a confirmation of what many people have been talking about, "Good Club Grei". In Norway, there is a total wage difference of about 10 %. 14.9 pst. between men and women, and we have to do something about that. In the Nordic Council we are now considering a proposal for a Nordic Equality Certificate after inspiration from Iceland. In connection with the treatment we have received a presentation of a Norwegian project called Equal Work. The project is under the responsibility of Agder County and Industry Association in the Kristiansand region, where public and private enterprises can be certified for their work on equality and diversity in employment. Activities are evaluated in areas of action such as management anchoring, prevention of harassment, recruitment, the organisation of full-time culture, equal parenthood and equal pay. The first 15 establishments were certified in 2018. Certification makes it easier for businesses to comply with the legislation already in place, while at the same time making the workplace attractive and far-sighted. The project attracted a lot of interest in the Nordic Council and is an important measure for a more equal society. I believe in showing good examples both in my own country and through our Nordic cooperation. That way we can learn from each other and get inspiration in getting an even more equal society. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e729	Now is the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e734	I bit my mark in, among other things. The representative Pettersen's irritation about getting some of the important areas where the government is far from doing enough to promote equality. I believe there are some quite clear signals that we have a government that leads to part-female policy. Let me take the first and obvious example that so far has not received enough attention in this debate in this Chamber. It's that we have the first government in 40 years that has restricted women's right to self-determined abortion. So we have the first Minister for Gender Equality who has to defend the gender impact of it, because women's right to decide over their own bodies is one of our most important equality awards, which have now been put in reverse with this government. In addition, we can also mention that the conservative forces have set a brake block on the Biotechnology Act. Then we have already been told that we have a family minister who excuses discrimination against skeletons in religious and life-view societies. This is a sign that there is still something to do in gender equality policy. But I want to raise another important issue. It is extremely embarrassing that we – the world’s most equal countries, which we like to boast of being – are now being dictated by the EU in the case of Norwegian gender equality policy. What's the reason for that? Yes, because in Norway, fathers are not granted the right to self-exempt parental leave. This means that many fathers do not have a real opportunity to be home with their children. This means that many children are not linked to both their caregivers. It's also an obstacle to getting more equal work. This has now gone so far that ESA — the EEA monitoring body — has filed an action against Norway, and we can therefore expect a report from there. It is embarrassing for Norwegian equality policy that it must be dictated from the EU and that we cannot sort this out ourselves. That is why SV and I have made proposals in this case, as a first step, that fathers can be granted autonomous exit rights for the 15 weeks you have as a quota in today's parental leave scheme. It may be one of the important steps forward for Norwegian gender equality policy, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e745	Norway has a challenge with a gender-based labour market, which we take seriously. The fact that we are still talking about human and female professions in 2019 is unfortunate. Influence on the free choice of people is also challenging. We see from the research that men and women take different choices based on different preferences, which in turn affect income. Although much of the pay gap can be explained by the fact that women and men choose different education and occupations and jobs in different industries and sectors, around 6-7 pst. of the total pay gap unexplained. It's worrying. Even though more women than before work full time, we can't be satisfied. We're not satisfied, as more of the opposition have accused us of being today. In my previous post and in this post I say on the contrary that we cannot be satisfied. Many women work part-time on a voluntary basis, but many people want to work more. Some people feel that the positions that are published are too small, while others do not get the cabal to deal with family life. Some feel trapped by the timeclamp. We take this seriously by facilitating the best possible participation of the majority of women with full strength in working life, among others. through better and more flexible working time arrangements, including the possibility of multiple alternative tours. On the right, employees, in cooperation with trustees and employers, are more likely to decide for themselves their own working hours. The government has spent money on the year’s budget on actions that contribute to a more balanced gender balance in education. The Minister of Culture has also set down the YouthIDag Committee, which will propose measures to encourage young people to break traditional gender roles in the choice of education and occupation. The study will provide us with a good knowledge base in the development of a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. In 2019, the government strengthens the right to take part in a position when new jobs are published, so that women, for example: in the health sector, where part-time work is widespread, may fill a full-time job. We have also called on regional health companies to include as many employees as possible in all permanent jobs. Fortunately, reporting by health companies now shows us a reduction in the use of part-time. This tells me that a lot of good work is done to reduce pay differentials. At the same time, we must recognise that some of the measures do not work overnight, but must have a generation perspective. Therefore, it is important to dry up on the measures taken over time and not allow the impatience to take over and allow short-term efforts to put good action into the wheels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e764	We have female prime minister in Norway, we have female prime minister, we have female supreme justice, three out of four party leaders in the government are women, and the foreign minister and the finance minister are women. Nevertheless, we have economic attitudes from which we have to break free. Women are equally concerned with wages and salaries for their work as men are, therefore, it is unfair that equally qualified employees are paid differently. Equality isn't just about money, we also see women prioritizing their wages differently. This opens up a presumption that women and men are given different financial assignments. The result is that women and men have different priorities. It's a huge capital gap between men and women, which it'll take hundreds of years to close. Women should be more owner-occupiers or joint owners of their own and common dwellings. That's why I'm glad more people in society take responsibility. We see that our banks take responsibility by informing women about the economy. Today's Business launches just before women's day a separate forum for women who care about stock exchange and finance. There I am a member, and I have also invited several of my colleagues to attend, because I think it is inspiring. I'm also glad that the economy is going to go into school to a greater extent, because we have to make sure that girls and boys get a good introduction to the money part of our society. In this way, the school can also participate and contribute to reducing the capital gap. I have to deal with one thing that is mentioned in the debate as very unfair, and that is the difference between men and women and part-time work. There I have to say that being able to work volunteer part-time in periods is a good thing for both men and women. We must accept that freedom of choice and take care of it. But what is a disadvantage is whether this part-time is systematic only for women, and whether it is involuntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e777	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. Women and men have about the same level of professional participation, and fewer and fewer women work part-time. That's good, and we have to make sure that this development continues, because we need more people working for a sustainable welfare society. The family quota has been absolutely essential for me to be both a working mother and a newly-baked mother. I believe that it has also been absolutely essential for my husband to have been able to explore and strengthen his father's role. But it is thoughtful that in 2019 some people think of me as being active, as self-realization, while my husband takes care of the family when he goes to work. Some would probably rather have seen me at home looking after the kids and the family. This is a little bit about culture, or maybe more about culture. This role conflict can lead to women choosing part-time, for 90 pst. of women working part-time do so on a voluntary basis. Here we have to do something about both attitudes and structure, because we need more in work. In fact, I believe that I owe my daughter of 3 years to work full time, for my hope is that once in the future she will let go of many of the fights both my generation and generations before have fought. The involuntary part-time is also a challenge, especially in the health and care sectors. Strengthening the full-time culture is a prerequisite for improving the quality of healthcare, increasing patient safety and improving patient follow-up both in hospitals and in municipal health and care services. For several years, the Minister for Health has called on regional health companies to employ hospitals as much as possible throughout permanent jobs, and the use of part-time has fallen by more than 20 pst. in all health regions since 2011. In the same period, the average employment rate has increased and is about 90 pst. That's great. But full time is also about working time. The provisions of the Working Environment Act on working time have been amended to increase access to local solutions. It can contribute to higher job rates and more full-time work, through good dialogue and good cooperation between the parties. Municipalities also need to facilitate a full-time culture, such as: The municipality of Kristiansand has done so by the fact that the positions issued are initially to be 100 % jobs. Yes, full-time is a choice for society, for businesses and for individuals. If my daughter is to be equal, she must participate in work on the same premises as the brothers, and her brothers must be equal caregivers. That way we're going up now. It's about culture, and it's about structure. But the goal is clear: everyone should have equal opportunities!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e793	Many of the challenges we face in the debate on integration relate to many of the most important freedom and equality struggles in our society. The most important is the freedom to live their lives in different ways. Many minority youths face a great social and cultural pressure to choose how to live their lives. The Labour Party believes that combating social control is a common responsibility. In Norway, everyone shall have the freedom to be himself, to participate and to break out if they experience limitations in their freedom. Everyone in Norway shall have the freedom and the ability to participate in social gatherings, leisure activities, work and other social activities. We believe that immigrant organisations and other voluntary activities are crucial for the good integration that is taking place in many municipalities throughout the country. This is why, year after year, we have strengthened the allocation of national organisations beyond the government framework in the government budgets. Some of these means have been earmarked for the organisation Urban Mothers, an amazing organization whose goal is to get domestic women isolated into society by means of other women in the community who speak the same language. Initiatives such as City Mothers must all of us cheer up and make sure that we can reach more municipalities around the country, and not just be a local action in Oslo. Active involvement of mothers in the community may include, for example: prevent crime and recruitment into the hard-to-return environment. It may also be the beginning of the journey to qualify for work, so that more people can support themselves and get the freedom that many of us take for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e800	Equality is about deciding about seagoing and having equal opportunities. Now we see that traditional, conservative, extreme, sometimes very right-wing and religious forces are on the rise in many places in the world. They've never been particularly excited about equality, because power over women and women's bodies has always been the foremost symbol of being in position. This is why it is worrying when the government is now dealing with the law of abortion and with the paper and when food supplies are put down, and they are not guarded against these forces, which in part have figures in the government parties. I've been working on equality all my life, and it's getting far. I have no patience with those who want to put this in reverse. There is no reason to be satisfied if Norway is one of the most successful countries. We are because we have high wages, we have tax-funded well-being, and we have women in work – and we need to strengthen that. There is no reason to be satisfied as long as so many have to work part-time, and then we have to legalize the right to full-time. If not, we're not going to get on with it. The possibility of working several weekends is probably no solution for those women who are struggling today to make the day go up. When so many women are subjected to violence and rape, and there are 385 children living on code 6 and the government is still sleeping with the reverse alarm of violence in these cases, there is no reason to be satisfied. It's serious for these women. It's about life and death, and the government could do a lot more. When food supplies are now being laid down in many places in the country, there is also reason to call for warnings. It's good that more people get involved in it, but you really have to stop it. So I don't think there's any reason for the government to be particularly impressed by the sea for the efforts for equality for people with disabilities. What the government has done is to remove the time limits for society to be universally designed and equalised. The measures aren't there. And it's going to cost money. Yes, it does, because this is also about physical organization very many places. But it hasn't been improved, and the proportion of people with disabilities in work hasn't gone up, it's been quiet or gone down a little. So what's the thing you're so incredibly impressed by yourself for, when the situation is so serious for so many?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e815	The representative Gahr Støre said that the left believes something different from outside the government. It is sad that part of this debate is about a false claim, almost some kind of a spell, but it gives me the opportunity to say the following: there is therefore a proposition for consideration in the family and cultural committee now. These are changes to the Discrimination Ombudsman Act and changes to the Discrimination Act, the establishment of a low-threshold offer for the treatment of sexual harassment and the strengthening of the obligation to provide information. The left – both before we joined the government and in the government – has meant that the health sister's title should be changed. It was changed with the Left in government. The left has also introduced the parental leave, and it was decided in government only months after the Left joined the government. When the equality work was transferred to the Minister of Culture, it was not only at the request of the Council of State itself, but also of the inspiration for the further work of the Left on this issue, and I would like to welcome the Workers' Party and others who are now talking about lack of ambition and about'revers'!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e824	I think it is right to be able to point out some errors, at least when it is directly wrong, what is being made here, and I have to be allowed to answer that. The first came from the representative Sivertsen, who must either have a little poor hearing or a consultant who has not attended, when he claims that I did not mention part-time issues in my introduction. I actually think that the longest part of my statement yesterday was about part-time. It's sad that you repeat things like that. To repeat a bit of what I said yesterday, the majority of the part-time challenge is related to the municipalities. It is not related to the life phase; it is not that young children’s parents work more part-time than others; it is primarily related to the occupation and employer they have. If you have a public employer called ‘municipality’, the chance of a job being part-time is much greater than otherwise. Health enterprises have made considerable efforts to reduce the use of part-time. Now the parties in this House should have their rapporteurs do the same, because that is where the big challenge lies with part-time. Then I also stumbled a little over Gahr Støre's articles. He says that everything points in the right direction now, but it's not as good as when it was below us. I don't know what he refers to. It's at least the gender gap is getting smaller, and it's going the right way. If it was the position in the World Economic Forum ranking, we fell below the red-green ones, from being first in 2008 to being third in 2012, i.e. in their reign. Now we've moved up from a third to a second place. My goal is said to be top, but at least we haven't fallen down on the ranking, as we did under the red-green. It is said by the representative Karin Andersen that you are ‘tubling’ with the paperwork. Yes, we have indeed – we have increased it, and I am very proud of it! The representative, Karin Andersen, says that she has no patience with people dealing with the paperwork. No, then it's left she shouldn't have patience, because we've increased it, and we've increased it more than when SV put in government. I understand that it is frustrating for many people to see a civil government coming further than SV did, but it is a fact that now the paperwork is increasing. We also see the major challenges of lifting disabled people into the labour market. That's why the main project that this government was launching first was an inclusion virtue, a hard job to get especially the public sector, which has been worst at it, to get more both with holes in the CV and with disabilities into the working life. We're going to work on that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e839	It takes time to change social structures so that women and men cannot choose freely on the basis of which sex they belong. The point is also that when a gender equality measure is introduced, it takes time before it works. I just remind you that when the members of the government parties stand here and boast that the proportion of women working part-time is still falling, it is because of the red-green effort, with measures and legislative changes introduced as late as 2014. But there's nothing to stand here and brag about, either, because they've in many ways weakened and cut in many of the measures they've removed the full-time pot of $25 million. kr in the annual government budget, which just made it possible for businesses, organisations and workplaces to obtain flexible solutions. It's also not right that everything points in the right direction. The Gender Gap index has fallen, and when you look at social areas by social area, the differences between people, not only between those who have much and those who have little, but also between women and men, are increasing systematically. It's because the government is not at all interested in continuing an offensive effort to reduce those differences. I think the debate here today shows it very clearly: one is satisfied, one points to the international statistics. Some have made an analysis that we have challenges here at home, but there is no strong desire to do anything about it – on the contrary. Yes, this government has put equality in reverse. Increasing cash support, cutting the number of kindergartens and increasing prices in the first budget, maintaining a tax policy that is automatically best for the rich people and is hard on women at the 'gold' is anti-equality. The amendment of the Working Environment Act, to major protests by the trade unions that organise the women at the "gold", who warned that this was going to affect their freedom, is anti-equality. Cutting the money to the ombudsman and cutting the wing is equality in reverse. When the government votes against important equality proposals, such as: That people – and especially women, because that is what they are talking about – are going to get a pension from the first penny, it's anti-equality. And of course, the great pink elephant in the room here today is that for the first time in Norway's history we have a government that exists because you chose to put women's right to determine your own body in second row, behind your own power. It's equality hostile, and it's equality in reverse. I mentioned earlier the proposals that the Workers' Party has made here today. Some have asked for them to be broadcast proposals. We see no reason not to vote against them here today, and I am very happy that the government parties signal that they are too, because then we can just adopt them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e854	The Labour Party will still be the best in the world to build strong communities and distribute fair. That is why we have promoted and will promote more proposals for gender equality: greater requirements for follow-up and implementation of actions that work, such as removing cash support, lowering child care prices, introducing gender-neutral job titles, requiring reductions in involuntary part-time – and also paying attention to concrete objectives, not good wishes in the letters of assignment. We want to step up efforts at regional equality centres, the right of self-determination for women in abortion issues, to make demands on religious and life-vision organisations on regulation and less social control and increased equality, and a forward-looking women's health policy, where we want to govern and regulate technological developments in the context of women's needs and the situation of women – to mention some deep and decisive distinctions between the policies of the right-wing government and the Labour Party. Then I want to comment on some of the posts that have been here today. First to the representative Almeland, it was well, who talked about this with inclusion. That's important, and a lot of what he said is good. But I just want to point out some things that actually also left have been responsible for during this period of government, among other things. to remove something as small as 600,000 kroner for a telephone paper for the blind. It's putting the inclusion into play, for a few people, but still important. It's taking away 3 million. Over the night for Christian work among the blind and the feeble are putting the inclusion work aside for important but small groups in society. Then I'd like to raise something that the representative Grimstad was inside. I'm very pleased that the representative took up the international perspective, because it's an important perspective. I am largely behind the main content of what he said, because we see a trend and a political direction internationally, which also several have been involved in, where conservative forces coexist in order to get stricter regulation of, among other things. the rights of women and LHBTIQ. But what surprises me is that the government itself does not see that they are part of the right turn and conservativeism that we see today. By putting the abortion question on the agenda to maintain power, the government of Norway sends a signal to those countries out there that are on the march in that direction: we go with them, we come a little late, but we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e863	The Workers' Party's attack on the Christian People's Party cannot be undisputed. When the representative Trettebergstuen fires the Minister of Children and Family in the way she did, it then points to the degrees in which the Workers' Party is concerned with matters of freedom of belief, volunteering and freedom from state domination. Yes, it is almost so I would like to thank Trettebergstien for producing such a clear distinction. That the Workers' Party wants to go in and control what can be said in Sunday schools and not, it is special, but unfortunately not so surprising. In addition, I believe that the fear of what it is taught in Sunday school is groundless. It's a constructed problem setting. Unlike the representative, this government has a positive view of the positive social forces of life-viewing societies and religious communities. I also notice that the Workers' Party is once again proposing to use State aid as a means of pressuring to override belief and life-view societies. We can see that from proposal No. 7, which the Workers' Party has promoted with regard to the use of State aid as a means of pressurisation. This is basically a recurring phenomenon from the Workers' Party. Although the objectives may be good, whether they be equality, inclusion or anything else, one does not escape the fact that the way the Workers' Party proposes to manage state resources is a use of state power that restricts the freedom of organisation in general, and volunteering and freedom of belief and life are particularly hard hit. I'm glad that we're part of a government that allows volunteering to be free, and that allows the field of faith and life to have its autonomy and peculiarity. The Christian People's Party wants us to be able to participate in community life without the state interfering in everything. We believe that civil society has a self-esteem, and we want the Christian cultural heritage to stand strong. But we can't take this for granted. The values are obviously under pressure. So to our vote today: in addition to what emerges from the vote, we are voting in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, on gender-neutral titles in the State. We are voting against the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e876	The representative of Reason Almeland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e881	The representative, Karin Andersen, I count on my post with visions, and ask myself what I am really so pleased that the government is doing for people with disabilities. What I pointed out in my entire article was just that I am not satisfied with what has been done right now. But I am pleased that you have now taken these challenges seriously and have outlined what you intend to do. In addition to what I mentioned in my statement, work has also been started on the evaluation of the Universal Design Action Plan and outlined the establishment of a new plan when it expires in 2020. I have expectations that it will be a good and inclusive plan, which finally focuses on a group that – as it is correctly pointed out by the representative Karin Andersen – has not been taken seriously enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e888	The representative Kristin Ørmen Johnsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e893	At least we have established a good dividing line between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party today. So I guess we're going to say that the decision that was made was probably right. If not, it would have been problematic for someone each. I just want to say that I recommend the Right Group to support proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The other proposals we are doing well, so I don't recommend supporting them, neither the Workers' Party nor the SVs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e901	Equality is a carrying value for SV. Sometimes some values conflict. It can sometimes make up for traditional religious values, whether it's one or the other. Sometimes you have to choose, and SV chooses equality. I register that not everyone does. It must mean accepting discrimination and not having the power to decide on the sea. There is an SV deep in disagreement and will fight against it. Having a salary is one of the most important things you can have to decide in your own life. We've been fighting women's fights, apparently all along. That's why it's so important that everyone gets the opportunity, including the immigrant women, who may be the furthest away from work, and who have a fight to fight at home against traditional family-called values and views of women. Therefore, it is so bad that the government has removed the opportunity that some of these women have, namely through the Jobsjansen action. Those who stand far away from the world of work, that is, those who have so far gone away that they have been on social assistance, are no longer going to have this opportunity that works well. It is a good measure, and the government has removed that possibility for these women. It's serious, because someone needs their own income to make their own decisions, there are women in those situations. We are now dealing in my committee, the municipal committee, with a proposal from the SV on child-breeds, on girls who have come to Norway, bearing the wrong name and date of birth and risking being thrown out of Norway or losing all their permits. I'm a little excited. We're going to leave the position afterwards, but it seems that there is no majority in favour of these girls being able to be safe in Norway. This is also equal to equality. There are people who know how to put off because they are girls and women and have been put in such a position. Pension from the first penny is such a case. Women work a lot of part-time. They do because they have too much responsibility. For this reason, they also take on their duty – when health starts to fail – to move into a position. They lose it in pay, they lose it in long-term, they lose it in retirement – and the government won't do anything about it. That's not good equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e912	I will contribute to broadening the scope of the debate a little, given that a new phenomenon occurred in Norway in 2018. Then we had the first built-prize in Ørsta and Volda, how many thousands actually stood up in trains, but it was the first time there was a large-scale homoparade in Building Norway. Now it's breaking up. It was probably one in the Churchnes in 2017, but it also had a function in showing solidarity with Russian gays. Last weekend there was one at Flisa in Hedmark. I'm very proud of an equality minister who's probably the one in the hall who's been in the vast majority of gay parades. It's going to look good. But we still have a piece to go. We have a new understanding of gender. In 2016, we introduced the possibility of choosing legal gender in Norway, we are talking about transgender. But there is also an emerging debate about establishing a third gender in Norway. There is, of course, a basis for discussing equality between men and women, but there is also a need to talk about those who do not yet fully have their rights in place. Skating archives, which the majority have also contributed to, are also an important function to say something about history, but we're also going to do something about future. It is alarming to read the reports on hate crime. The annual report on it in Oslo for 2018 shows that ethnicity and orientation are the main reasons for notification. A report published by the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate and the Institute for Social Research in February of this year also shows that there is a lot of unfamiliar talk on the Internet and in social media, but also at the workplace. It also shows what work we have to do in terms of orientation and sexuality, which is still a taboo in many social arenas. We also have treatment services. The provision of health to sexual minorities is important, and for those who want to change sex, the Rikshospital is the only treatment option in Norway. There is a need to get a better decentralised offer. There is also a need for a second opinion for those who are refused, and we need to cooperate with the Nordic countries in order to provide specialised treatment for the relatively few of them in order to provide them with safer treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e921	The representative of the Workers' Party almost repeated the boring, must be allowed to say from this pulpit, the term'revers'. Of course, I could talk a lot about «repeat», but I really think that a lot of representatives have responded well to the attacks that came to the government. However, another person I was somewhat disappointed in in the debate was the head of the Workers' Party, the representative Jonas Gahr Støre. Suddenly he joined the debate, not mainly to talk about his own policies, but to talk about the policies of the Progress Party. However, the representative who did not – and then deliberately – quote was the first sentence of the Progress Party under the chapter on equality. It says: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers considers all persons to be equivalent.’ It is quite possible – and only one speculation – that the head of the Labour Party has given up the Prime Minister's dream, but I actually expected a little more honesty than that. In fact, the party of progress is quite proud to be part of a government that makes sure that Norway is at the top when it comes to equality. And I can assure you that the Progress Party will continue to fight for equivalency and ensure equal opportunities and rights for social participation – and then for everyone. One of the things I didn't get in my first post was to say something about the fight for and not least the action plan to now bet on female health. We all know that female health has been a priority field for a long time. I am proud that the Progress Party and I are part of a government that is now putting this on the agenda. Otherwise, I would like to say to the representative from SV, who raised a topic that I was also involved in in my first post, this with children's bridesmaids: I fully agree that child marriage is a big, big challenge, and not only in Norway, but in fact internationally. I believe, as I said in my first post, that Norway should of course be part of the international work to combat this, and we do so primarily in those countries where it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e939	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e944	The representative Gahr Støre said that it was precisely that it does not hold that all people are considered to be equivalent if, at the same time as he also quoted from the programme, one believes that the state should not interfere in it, and thus not pursue an active gender equality policy. Then people are not free, and then we are not going to be equivalent. Equality policy is not just about women's struggle, it's about diversity. We know that men have major gender equality challenges – of course. In 1991, we had a human role selection led by Jens Stoltenberg, who made groundbreaking new proposals for policies implemented by the Workers' Party. We had under the previous red-green government a human panel that did the same. I don't understand why we can't take men's gender equality challenges seriously and set up a new human role selection. It was supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e951	Norway has come a long way in gender equality, as the Council of State's presentation shows and gets along in a good way. However, it is important that one continues to work to increase women’s opportunities to participate in working and social life in all areas, including – not least – recruitment to leadership positions in society. Then I record that several speakers from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party are trotting across important borders about principles of freedom of belief. It may not be the State that governs what is meant and done in different religious communities. It is a violation of freedom of faith, and thus a violation of key principles in international human rights declarations. It is interesting to record where the Workers' Party and SV are concerned with matters of freedom of belief. Equality policy, in the view of the Christian People's Party, should focus more on how to break down the traditional gender role pattern from kindergarten and school and up. It's important that we create a society based on participation and commitment, regardless of gender. Therefore, we need good measures to combat involuntary part-time, which can facilitate a working life that does not restrict participation, but which can benefit from measures that can foster participation based on what each individual wants, and not least equal opportunities for all. In the work on increasing equality, it is also about providing disabled people with better access to work and participation in society. Therefore, we are pleased that the Christian People's Party in the government platform has had the effect of an equivalised reform, which should not least help to improve the lives of disabled people. Today we experience a user-controlled personal assistant system that is practised very differently from the municipality to the municipality. By making the system a gender equality tool, we will help to bring more people with disabilities into a more active social life, not least in the workplace. The attacks on government's kindergarten policy by describing it as anti-equality is what I would call an incorrect description that does not hit at all. Full child care coverage, which we have today, and increased free core time, are measures that promote participation in the labour market. To characterise the cash support as anti-equality is a roughly signified image of a scheme, a measure that increases the freedom of choice of the family, as well as being a targeted measure for families with income below the poverty line. Gender equality has come a long way. However, important steps need to be taken in relation to women's participation and opportunities in working and social life, the rights of disabled people and the fight against discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e966	The representative, Kari Henriksen, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e971	I want to link some reflections to the powerful attack that we attack the Christian People's Party first, and that we attack the freedom of faith. Then I would like to ask the representatives of the Christian People's Party: is freedom of belief a violation? Do Freedom of Faith Tribulate Oppression? Is there a contrast between freedom of belief and freedom of people? I don't think so. And among people who believe, there are different opinions about where that limit is going, and that has to be respected. That's a completely legal position to have. But what the Workers' Party has criticised is that the Government and the Right have allowed an interpretation of the creed that is different from that of the Workers' Party. It's also completely legal. The Labour Party believes that there are limits to freedom of belief, and that is what we have a good tradition of legislating for in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e978	2019 was to be a historic year for women’s increased rights and health. There's an explicit majority on the Stortinget for women's right to egg donation in the event of involuntary childlessness, in line with men's right to sperm donation. Lone women should be entitled to assisted conception, so that there is no civil status, but care ability that determines whether a woman is given help to become a mother through the public health system in the same way as couples – important political changes that would have shown the values of our society. 2019 has become historic, but unfortunately not for these reasons. In the new government formation, the equality advances were cancelled by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, who have no longer intended to contribute to a majority of the Grand Duchy on these matters, which the same parties support politically. Instead, we get a brake on questions of biotechnology and the first restriction on the law of self-determined abortion since 1978. The Workers' Party shall take a strong stand against this. Rather, we want to promote a new and better policy to ensure women's health and rights. At the same time, we know that about 300 women are taking Sena away as a result of a disease in the foetus that can be picked up earlier. In good foetal diagnostics, women can be better informed about their own body and pregnancy. Therefore, the Workers’ Party wants all pregnant women to be offered early ultrasound in the public health system before week 12 and to be entitled to extended foetal diagnostics, including NIPT blood tests, when considered by the treating physician. Traditional medicine continues to use men as norms for research, diagnostics and treatment, despite the fact that many diseases species differ from women and men. This means that women are less well investigated, treated and followed up. It also applies to acute status diseases such as myocardial infarction, the disease that kills most women in Norway. For low status diseases that do not take life, the picture is even worse. Twenty pst. all women are believed to be affected by endometriosis and adenomyosis, conditions that cause severe pain, severe bleeding and lead to a significant loss of quality of life. It takes an average of seven years to make the diagnosis, and for few doctors know the symptoms well enough for everyone to be discovered. I'm so sorry that women are talked down to have more sick leave than men when women's health is not prioritised. A strong boost is needed for women’s health. Unfortunately, neither the government statement nor the government's female health strategy contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e991	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e996	It is particularly important to hear how the representatives Gruvan and Lossius defend discrimination in the direction of religious communities. Yes, we have religious freedom, and it is important to take care of it. But we also have some other rights through e.g. The European Convention on Human Rights, which clearly states that we must defend, for example: non-discrimination of minorities. Let me take one example, so-called reorientation therapy, where religious and life-based societies say to young people, to children, that you are wrong. What do you think it's doing to a human being? Then I believe – and I expect – that the Christian People's Party will also stand on the side of the weak party and say that we should protect their rights as well, not just the rights of the religious and life-view societies. This is important, because around Europe – including Norway – the organised homo hatred is on the rise. Then we need clear politicians, not excuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1004	It's been a rather long and interesting debate, and I think that's fine, but I'll hang out on the last speech from SV. For me, the post from Lossius was simply a very small joke from how in totalitarian religious states people talk about the freedom to exercise their right of belief in the way that leads to discrimination against all the groups that we have talked about so nicely today. I said in my speech that sometimes we just have to set equality, as perhaps one of our most important values, in front of other good, important considerations. My impression after today's debate is that freedom of faith is more important than equality for the Christian People's Party, and I would very much like to have a clarification as to whether that is the case. Then I wonder how the minister behaves that the Christian People's Party is so clearly more concerned with freedom of belief than with equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1017	The representative Silje Hemdal has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1022	First to the representative of the Workers' Party who spoke about the disappointing women's health campaign to the government. I'm actually very proud of a comprehensive strategy to improve women's health, and six promises are at least more than the Workers' Party itself was able to give. The party of progress in the government has been able to see stronger reactions, among other things. against cohabitation. It's also a matter of equality, because it's about equal parenting. It was one of the major themes on human day, which is 19 November – perhaps someone should take note of it, as human day is also a very important day to mark. I am pleased that the parties here in the Chamber have announced that they are also concerned about discussing equality for men. That's exactly what it's about, equality, and then we're talking about both sexes, not just women.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1029	I'm glad it's a very long debate – that means this is an important topic. As a government council responsible for the theme, I think it's good that it's in Stortinget, but it probably has a little bit of a feeling that there aren't so many good ideas about new grips. There are still things that are being repeated, for example. increasing the level of cash support leads to lower equality. Less people use the cash support – it must be the interesting part to measure. Yes – we have increased the nursery prices for them with good advice, but it has given 50,000 children the possibility of free kindergarten, which leads to more children actually going to kindergarten. Yes — the Working Environment Act was amended. There was no lack of a negative perspective in this room on what it was going to lead to when we made those changes, but it hasn't been like that. It is not that there is a dramatic increase in the use of temporaryity because of it, or that it has had a special gender perspective. As Minister of Gender Equality, I am dealing with the government platform. It is quite fine that the parties in this room have a primary position that is not in line with it, but I will deal with the government platform. It is claimed that the Ombudsman is cut when, in our proposals, we actually add more tasks and more resources, and it is claimed that there is no plan for women's health when what you did well a short time ago was to put forward a strategy for women's health. Biotechnology, I'd like to admit, is difficult for all the parties. Now the most liberal parties in this area, the Left Party and the Advance Party, are limited by being in government with the Christian People's Party – just as SV and the Workers' Party were in government with the Center Party. So that's completely equal. I believe that if you look through the proposals that lie here today, the only thing that is new and different is the desire for a human role selection. I think it's exciting thoughts, but I think we need to look at what the Young People's Report, which is coming this fall, actually tells us before we start something like that. All the other ideas have either been started or have been worked on. I really think that by next year's presentation we might try to stretch to come up with some new ideas instead of just repeating the old ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1044	The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1049	I have to comment on the comments of the representative Moflag here. I do not think it should be unspoken in this context that the government has just presented a strategy for women's health. It concerns increased research, better reproductive health, including education, better cooperation with interest groups in the field of sexually transmitted diseases, gradual extension of long-term prevention, raising for the midwife service – I could have talked a lot about that, I would have had more time – better cancer treatment, new package pathways that specifically relate to female health, related strategy and international work, as I mentioned in my previous post. And not enough: the Prime Minister therefore comments that this is just a start, while at the same time she announces a summit on female health for the autumn. Yes, it is possible this year, 2019, will be historic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1054	When I heard Kari Henriksen's last post, I must say that I am very pleased that it is not the Workers' Party that has developed the principles of freedom of belief. Limiting the right of religious communities to faith is a serious violation of human rights as they are enshrined, and as they stand in, among other things. The UN Declaration of Human Rights. The leadership of the Workers' Party in order to intervene in the right of people to believe and to believe it from a certain point of view of life, I do not think it is a denial, and it has also been shown today. So it has to be completely possible to think that it is possible to reconcile the principles. It is fully possible to have respect for freedom of belief as a fundamental human right and at the same time to work actively for equality and against discrimination in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1061	The representative Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1066	First to SV's representative: I can assure you that the Christian People's Party is taking away from so-called reorientation therapy for children, but what kind of help and therapy free, adult people themselves choose to visit must be entirely up to them. I can also assure the representative from the Central Party that it is fully possible to stand up for freedom of religion and to work for equality at the same time, and I also refer to my first post, about the proud and good party history of the Christian People's Party in the field of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1073	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1089	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1098	A researcher said in the Evening Post in 2017: ‘It would be to go too far to say that living in a poor area makes you poor. But living in an area with many neighbours with poor living conditions, low income and education reduces one’s life’s chances.’ And he went on to say, ‘There has been a lot of research on family backgrounds and the importance of schooling in Norway — much less on the impact of neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. Although most people have a ‘taste feeling’ of being marked by a lot of their growing up environment, this has been partially ignored politically.’ A strong urban economy is crucial for a neighbourhood. The Red-Green City Council has strengthened the economy in the metropolitan areas of Oslo by 1.2 billion. kr. In this way, the metropolitan areas of Oslo can now increasingly offer services that help to ensure good growth conditions for children and young people, even outside the statutory tasks. In our alternative state budget, the Labour Party has increased the municipal framework by 3.5 billion. kr. This would mean a big difference for the districts of Oslo. The methods developed in the Groruddalssatsingen and the results of the evaluation of the initiative showed that policy area-based efforts are effective. The Oslo territorial policy and territorial level shall contribute to raising neighbourhoods and reducing the exclusion of child poverty and unemployment. Good local meeting places are the key to this work, and it is the biggest success factor of the Groruddals bet – together with free core time. We must have good cooperation between the state and the municipality, where together we can strengthen the efforts to get more people to work, have good training courses for our young people and an area policy as real monks. Then we will have a city with smaller differences and fewer vulnerable neighborhoods where poor living conditions are inherited. Many children and young people do things they regret later in life. For some of these young people, this results in marginalisation, exclusion and large social differences. It is quite obvious that the bourgeois government has to invest more in the police in the streets. At the same time, the police must have enough resources to invest in more outreach prevention. Oslo is a police district with major resource challenges. The police don't have enough people and not enough time. We have areas with living conditions challenges in our cities. Many of those who grow up in these areas have parents who don't work. They grow up in poor families. These are families who cannot always afford to send their children to football training, cinema or vacations. There are activities many of us others take for granted. It is serious that many children grow up in poverty and that the prevention of juvenile delinquency in parts of the city is not good enough. The Labour Party has for a long time been a driving force for regional initiatives in vulnerable areas facing living conditions challenges. Extra efforts by countries and municipalities in selected neighbourhoods in Oslo have been aimed at contributing to neighbourhoods where people are to thrive better. Local meeting places contribute to creating well-being and cohesion in a neighborhood. The government parties have been a brake block in the Groruddalen bet. The numbers' speech is very simple. The Red-Green Government took the initiative towards the Municipality of Oslo for a joint commitment to the Groruddalen, and the agreement started in 2007. Until 2014, the red-green government had granted almost 1 billion. kr to Groruddalen. Right on the Oslo City Council granted over the same period 370 million. kr. Oslo got a new city council in 2015, and then the fraction was turned upside down. In the last years of the Groruddals bet, the Workers' Party has granted more than the Right in the Government. We are now in the process of a new Groruddalssatsing, and the government has not been easy to get into the new split layer. With this I address the proposal that the Workers' Party has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1128	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalese has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1133	A good living environment is an important prerequisite for good living conditions. It is therefore also a central part of the state’s cooperation with municipalities that have living conditions challenges in urban areas. Major urban challenges have shown that the Groruddalen area initiative has so far been important for starting up and implementing the necessary upgrades to an area of major social and environmental challenges, but also with a high potential, and I am pleased about that. I am therefore also pleased that the government, precisely because of the previous results, has signed new agreements of intent on regional initiatives here in the Oslo area: for the Groruddalen, Oslo south and the inner east. I have great faith that there will continue to be fruitful cooperation between the municipality and the state, and that the new agreements will provide a good framework for further efforts. That's what the people deserve. Territorial initiatives are a partnership between municipalities and the state. Action is to be developed by the Parties together. Those shall also assess the financing needs and clarify the financial framework in the ordinary budgetary processes. It's a healthy practice. The municipality of Oslo was also very aware of this in the big hearing on the matter. It is a demanding proposal for a representative to be debated today. It touches very wide-ranging themes and crosses a number of ministerial borders. The Labour Party and the Centre have pointed out in their comments on the matter that several of the proposals do not seem appropriate in order to strengthen the territorial effort, and not least that several proposals have been implemented or dealt with in the Storting. I agree. The proposers point out that the Groruddals bet and other territorial promises have made good contributions and must be continued. That's exactly what we're experiencing that this government is doing. Then the proposers claim that although Groruddalssatsingen is ten years old, the programme is, however, short-term on the action page. It is inherent in the nature and nature of the territorial operations that they should be an instrument complementing the regular service production for a limited period of time. And when an overall effort is called for in this area, it is strange to me that the proposers do so by proposing 20 different measures or proposals that break in as many directions as we see, and without an overall structure. As I see it, the foundation and structure shall be formed jointly by the parties, within the framework provided by the contract, and not least based on local needs. It's the municipality that has to be in the driver's seat here. Many of the proposals that have been put forward could one imagine commenting. But I'm going to be very careful to point out one of the important proposals that the government is already making. It concerns proposal No. 13 in the motion for a resolution, which proposes that the Stortinget should: ‘provides the government with a youth guarantee ensuring that all young people under the age of 25 are entitled to work, training or qualification within three months’. The intention behind this proposal is good. But we have had three youth guarantees before without it having the desired effect. I am pleased with the government’s new youth effort for young people under 30 years of age. Applicants under this age who are not in work, education or activity eight weeks after being registered in Nav are now offered individual follow-up. And eight out of ten in the target group were offered in this scheme in 2018. Education and training is the path to work and the key to self-employment. That is why I am also pleased that the distinction between youth law and adult law in secondary education has been lost, and for the right to secondary education for those who have training from abroad and who do not receive this qualification as a study or professional competence here. It can open the way to professional life for more people and thus also better living conditions. That's good for Oslo and Grorud, and it's also good for the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1157	The proposers want a long-term and holistic lift for the Groruddalen and Oslo south and believe it is a national responsibility to ensure good living conditions and reduce differences in Oslo. As usual for SV, if there are challenges in a municipality, call on the state. As a matter of fact, criticism is given for everything, even if the government has delivered it, without taking it into account. An example of this is the proposal for sports facilities in the municipality. There's been an increase of 105 pst here. since 2012. Resources for sporting purposes to strengthen the framework conditions for teams and associations engaged in sports and physical activity for children and young people have increased by 123.8 pst. since 2013. However - SV asks for more. Furthermore, SV believes that it is unacceptable that sport has such a high cost that many children never start sports or stop early. I fully agree with that, but at the same time I believe that it is a matter of local policy priorities. However, there is reason to recall the national scheme against child poverty aimed at ensuring that all children, regardless of their parents’ finances, can participate in important social arenas such as holiday and leisure activities. This grant scheme has increased from approximately 100 million. SEK in 2014 to SEK 270 million. kr in 2018. Several of the other proposals are clearly below local policy priorities, and I am not addressing those proposals. In its letter of consultation, the municipality of Oslo points to three criteria for an area operation to deliver desired results. On the basis of these criteria, several of the proposals in the proposal for a representative would not be appropriate. In addition, several of the proposals have been either implemented or already dealt with in the Storting. The Government has signed intentional agreements on new area operations for the Groruddalen, Oslo South and the inner East bet. The agreements lay down a new, overall framework for further efforts. SV points out that Oslo needs a strong community economy in order to reduce the causes of the problems that Oslo is facing. Then there is reason to remember that the municipality of Oslo went with a total of 3.2 billion. kr in profit last year. This shows that it's not really about money, but about what kind of grip you take. SV will have free half-day space in kindergartens in exposed areas of Oslo. Why exposed areas? The progress party is concerned with vulnerable children. Here the government has delivered a more targeted response, with a national free core time scheme in kindergartens for two-female mothers from low-income families. With effect from 1 August, the scheme will cover approximately 45 000 children. In addition, there is reason to recall that a nursery place for those who have to pay for themselves is currently less than the cost of childcare 30 years ago. And again, SV is trying to abolish the cash support. For me, it is absolutely impossible to understand how SV on the one hand can be upset over all children growing up in poverty, but at the same time is so eager to take away those who have the least. In particular, I think it is problematic that you want to discriminate. It simply cannot be said that someone cannot choose any additional months at home with their own child simply because they have the wrong address. For reasons of integration, there is now a general requirement for five years of residence in Norway to be eligible for cash support. SV asks for additional kindergarten teachers and school teachers. This has been provided by the government, through legislation, additional appropriations and specific grant schemes. More than 80 pst. living in a dwelling they own. The government wants an active use of rental-to-owner models to assist disadvantaged people in the housing market. The House Bank has arranged for municipalities to offer such solutions to disadvantaged people who do not meet the starting loan requirements. In 2018, municipalities provided start-up loans for nearly 9.3 billion. kr. That's the highest amount ever. SV will have a youth guarantee for work, education or qualification measures despite the fact that we have previously had three youth guarantees that did not have the desired effect. In 2017, a specific youth effort was put in place to quickly provide young people with the assistance they need to complete school or get a job. All counties have been allocated funds to strengthen Nav's youth team. SV will have earmarked funds to strengthen health centres despite the fact that the government has provided nearly 1000 new posts for health centres through its first four years, and that the budget for the year gives municipalities about 1.3 billion. kr to health stations. If there's something I've learned from the work on all these suggestions, then it's that Oslo gets a lot like others don't get. When we know what Oslo's surplus is, it's obvious that Oslo's challenges are not about lack of money. There is also reason to note that there is only one of 21 proposals that unite the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1193	The proposal on the basis of which it was put forward contains many good measures, but most of the 20 points are nevertheless measures that should be adopted and designed locally, not nationally. The centre party is known to be occupied by local self-government, and this applies both in the capital and in the rest of the country. We believe that the Storting should be careful to address matters that in many of these cases should be decided by the City Council, which must sit with the real power in local affairs for Oslo. The centre party supports the work on the city's special challenges, in line with what we do in the districts. In order to find good solutions, locally adapted instruments need to be ensured across the country. The first 10 years of the Groruddals bettingen have provided experience and knowledge that is useful for both the state and the municipality, for example. the importance of coordinating the use of State and municipal funds in different sectors. The municipality of Oslo points out in its consultation response that the work on area operations must be professionally thought out and carried out systematically over time, in close dialogue with the community. Groruddalssatsingen and the regional initiatives in Drammen, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim have broad budget support in Stortinget, with a strengthening of 40 million. kr for 2019. In its alternative budget, the Centre has made additional investments of 238 million. kr for integration work, 5 mill. SEK 5 million for juvenile delinquency in Oslo. for children’s and young people’s activities in larger urban communities and increased volunteering, in addition to a massive contribution to the local economy by 2.4 billion. kr to the municipalities and SEK 1,5 billion. kr to counties. The site initiatives, which have now been carried out over several years, have been successful and have contributed to the necessary upgrading of residential areas with social and environmental challenges. We therefore support a proposal to call on the government to come back to the United Kingdom with a programme for upgrading the environment, where children and young people themselves will have to be involved in identifying measures. With regard to the proposals on crime prevention, we agree with many of the measures. In our alternative budget, there is a significant commitment to police, courts and preparedness, including: with a strengthening of the police districts of 500 million. kr. These priorities could also provide an overall approach to area challenges and youth crime. The centre party is critical of the police reform. It has led to a worse economy in the police districts. Both residents and the police themselves experience that assignments often cannot be carried out as expected, and that is in all parts of the country. It is very important to deal with thread problems as early and thoroughly as possible to avoid the problem escalating. Criminal gangs must face clear reactions. Limiting money and values will be an important tool to put an end to the activity. Being able to stop cash flows and make seizures in large amounts that undoubtedly stem from criminal activity will be effective in combating the criminal environment. In recent years, there has also been a large increase in labour crime and financial crime, which is very worrying. We want to ensure a safe and well-organised working life, and in order to counter labour-criminalism and social dumping, we have prioritised 230 million in our budget. kr for that purpose. The use of threats and attempts to extortion from criminal environments is also something we want to live on, and the challenge is often that such cases are not reported. In order to avoid criminal acts not being prosecuted, we want the police to use public prosecution to a greater extent. Of course, the police and the prosecution authority themselves must make professional assessments and give priority to the use of public prosecution. It cannot be politically overthrown. Nevertheless, it is important that there is a political signal that we want to use this instrument in the most serious cases. The centre party is behind five proposals where we believe it is right that the state takes responsibility. It is in order to ensure better living environments where most needs to be done, to prevent recriminalism at many levels and to help young people and first-time start-ups through a change in the starting loan criteria of the House Bank. I would therefore like to address our proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1216	The representative, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, then addressed the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1221	Area bets are a great success. It has worked well where they have been implemented. I am therefore quite amazed at a bit of the tone that is in this debate. SV has made many proposals, and we hear them cracking in every direction. No — broad, comprehensive efforts must have many broad measures, for this is about building good communities to combat inequalities, countering segregation and countering the fact that societies are not working well. Then there is a need for a much stronger redistribution policy than the government has, where the government is increasing the differences. We know that's devastating for areas where people can't afford it. We need a fairer housing policy. The housing policy now being pursued leads to more segregation, and many with poor advice gather in some places. When you have poor advice, you also have less opportunities to contribute to communities with what is needed to build them. So a stronger housing policy is needed, and there is a need for a better integration policy than that of the government. SV has also promoted a number of proposals such as: shall enhance the ability to acquire the skills needed to obtain employment in Norway. That's what the government is against. We want a stronger local economy, so that municipalities can become stronger, build good communities and contribute to both the infrastructure to be found in local areas, and the measures to ensure that there are good social and cultural meeting places locally. When social problems and unrest arise, there is no short-term fire extinguishment in areas like the Groruddalen and Holmlia that are needed. Long-term commitment is needed to prioritize the areas and build good communities that can withstand and prevent problems. That is what this proposal for a representative is all about. Then we must be willing to commit ourselves in the long term, and more long-term and stronger than the government has done. There are many areas we have pointed out in this proposal, and I don't have time to go into everyone, but I can mention someone. Housing is important. Many with poor advice live in straits and have many children. It's not that easy when you have two rooms and five children, where someone's going to do homework, someone's going to do one, and someone's going to do the other, and there's no room to bring friends and comrades home. Then it's easy to be out, and then it's easy to be included in negative environments. Therefore, we need to have better housing policies and good leisure activities, so that we are included and feel at home in good social contexts. That is why we believe that it should be strengthened, because it is best in the long term – that we do not take the risk of communities that do not function well in these areas. When it comes to children getting half a day's space in kindergarten, and we have chosen to introduce it in some areas, the goal is for everyone to have this. But what we see is that it works very well where you have it, and you don't separate the offer so that it's proof of need. What we know about those areas is that very many people who could have had the right to that, don't get it. It's a huge problem. But if you say this applies to everyone, then everyone comes, and then you get the kids in kindergarten, you get the kids to go into the school vacations, and then they're included. It's important. Finally, the crime challenge: Yes, then it is important that we also have a close-up police force – a proper close-up police force and not like the so-called near-police reform, which unfortunately has resulted in fewer police forces present in the local communities that can become acquainted with the youth, who can be there, who can prevent really, and who can catch up. There is also a need for a stronger focus on exit measures. We know that it is deadly to break out of a criminal gang once you have entered it. It is then necessary that we have competence in this, which is taken care of, continues and reinforces. Then I would like to address the suggestions SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1246	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1251	The Groruddal bet and the Oslo South bet are and have been important. That is why the Christian People's Party has also given a number of budgetary commitments priority and strengthened these appropriations. This is a work that is in good hands, and there is agreement between the parties that the financial framework should be clarified in the annual budget. These efforts are a partnership between municipalities and countries. There is a work that is mutually agreed to continue, and it is important to suspend that consensus. It is definitely not appropriate to extend the proposal by a number of points which directly interfere with the responsibilities of the municipality and partially open doors. I am almost tempted to use unparliamentary terms about the proposal to locally abolish the cash support and redispatch the funds. But of course I don't. The only point of light with this proposal was that it was a new twist, and not the same repetition that we are used to hearing – but it is equally very unfortunate that a right law intended to give children's families freedom of choice to spend more time with children under the age of two is made dependent on residence. This wouldn't just be unwise, it would be immodest. But the Groruddals bet and the Oslo South bet I like to speak out, and the Christian People's Party is also going to do in the budgetary work in the role of the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1261	Oslo Municipality has areas with exceptional challenges related to geographical concentration of living conditions challenges. The starting point is that it is the municipality that has the primary responsibility to contribute to the good living conditions of all citizens and to the development of sustainable communities. However, the State should also contribute and support the work of municipalities. The challenges in these areas in Oslo are complex and complex, and they require coordinated and simultaneous efforts by many agencies and actors, both state, municipal, private and voluntary, to obtain good results. Today’s regional initiatives are therefore broad programmes that develop new services and actions related to growth and education, employment and the environment. The government, together with the Municipality of Oslo, is committed to improving services and environmental quality in Groruddalen and the south of Oslo. The aim is for more people to become economically independent and actively involved in local communities and in the wider community. In the budget for 2019 we have therefore increased the government's appropriations for Groruddalssatsingen and Oslo Sür-satsingen. We've strengthened the Groruddal bet with about five million. kr, for approx. Forty-four million. kr. In addition, we've allocated 30 million. SEK to Oslo South bet, which is approximately a doubling of the state funds granted in 2018. Besides that, the government will use approx. 37 million. kr in 2019 for crime prevention in areas in Oslo with poor living conditions. These appropriations shall be used to accompany young people in the risk zone and to prevent recruitment to criminal environments. The coordination of territorial activities in Oslo is a step that will simplify, streamline and strengthen the professional work on territorial activities. The zone bet in Oslo South is therefore part of an overall organisation with Groruddalssatsingen and the initiative for Oslo inner East. It is important that the state and the municipality work in the long term in the cooperation on the area initiatives in the Groruddalen and Oslo south. We have entered into a ten-year intention agreement for Groruddalsatsingen and a nine-year agreement in Oslo South bet. But, of course, the financial framework is clarified in the ordinary annual budgetary processes. Therefore, a mutually committed financing agreement is not up to date, also because the need for funding obviously needs to be assessed on an ongoing basis. Many of the measures promoted in the proposal for a representative are purely operating grant grant schemes, which only increase the regular level of service production over a period of time. This will go against regional efforts as an instrument, the aim of which is to complement regular service production for a time-limited period. The Municipality of Oslo is responsible for the level of its own services, based on its own priorities and assessment of local needs. The financing of the services of the Municipality of Oslo must go through the ordinary framework grants to the municipality and not be defined by the State through even more State grant schemes. Oslo municipality, both as a municipality and as a county municipality, has experienced higher growth in free income in the period 2013–2017 than in the period 2005–2013. The Municipality of Oslo has also benefited from the changes made to the income system for the municipalities in 2015 and the municipalities in 2017. The site initiatives are good arenas where state and municipality can develop and test actions and projects. Experience is used to improve practices and to provide a better adapted service provision. This cooperation covers many of the areas in which the proposers have made proposals in this matter. In addition, many of the proposed measures have already been implemented or addressed in the Storting. The government believes that we should rather concentrate on working further with the area initiatives and further develop this as a good tool to raise areas in Oslo that have a high concentration of living conditions challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1296	Finding policies that balance living conditions, ensuring social mobility, preventing poverty and giving people in the city the opportunity to live the lives they want is crucial to the direction in which our city is developing. We need to have high ambitions and targeted efforts. All children and young people shall have a safe and well-growth with equal opportunities to complete school, have a meaningful leisure time, an inclusive neighborhood and a good transition to adult life. Exposured communities with poor living conditions are central to reproducing differences in society and will provide reduced opportunities for the rest of their lives for those who grow up there. Is the Council aware of the importance of this neighbourhood effect — the fact that what kind of neighbourhood children grow up in affects their chances of further life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1303	There are some things you don't have to do so much party politics of, where you actually agree quite across the parties. I led a town council in Bergen that took the initiative in regional development in Bergen, an imitation of what Oslo had. Oslo has some major living conditions challenges; so do we in the other cities, but to a lesser extent. I am very aware of the importance of this – what it means to get together locally and in the state to make an extra effort and find new tools and new ways of working to lift everyone. I am very aware of that, and that is why I believe these area programmes are very important. We've strengthened them, and I'm very happy about that. We have a good cooperation with Oslo – the Red-Green City Council in Oslo – on these initiatives, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1308	To strengthen it after a low level is good. The government is pulling its legs in terms of territorial efforts in living areas. The right has been a brake block all along. The numbers show it. So the red-green government had 1 billion. kr to Groruddalssatzingen, while the City Council’s right had 370 million. kr. When Oslo got a new city council in 2015, this fraction was turned upside down. In the last part of the previous Groruddalssatzingen, the Workers' Party granted more than the Right in the Government. We are now in the process of a new Groruddalssatsing, and the government has not been easy to get into that fissure layer. Then my question is: why has it been so down-prioritized by the government parties to contribute to territorial efforts in living areas, when the state council itself said in the previous question that she is aware of the neighbouring effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1315	I totally disagree with the description of the representative. We have had a good cooperation with Oslo to draw up the new multiannual agreements, precisely because we think they are important. So we've strengthened them. We have also strengthened other areas of policy that are important to vulnerable children and young people. It is about targeting the efforts of the House Bank against families with children, and it is about ensuring that more low-income families get kindergarten and free core time. I completely disagree that it should be evenly lubricated to everyone. We're going to target it to those who actually need it the most. We've increased teacher's density in school, and we've increased staffing standards in kindergarten. So we've done a number of things that are just targeting those that need it the most. For Oslo, we have also increased efforts on the crime prevention and police front, because we know that all this is linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1324	We all agree that safe and good living conditions are absolutely fundamental. Following the intensification of the start-up loan scheme, municipalities have less freedom of action in the case of start-up loans. Some municipalities call for the possibility of using start-up loans as a grant – in municipalities where the market price is below the construction costs. Some municipalities call for the possibility to use start-up loans as an aid to equity for those who do not have access to equity but are able to serve a mortgage. Does the Council of State see that there could have been additional instruments for municipalities to get more young people to enter the housing market for the first time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1329	I am very much in favour of the start-up loan scheme. I think it's a very good arrangement, but I think it should meet those who need it. In this room, there's no doubt that we're going to have a system that hits everyone, whether we're going to give assistance to people who serve very well, who are in a good life situation, newly educated and with good work, or whether we're going to meet persistently disadvantaged people. I'm a follower of the last. I think we can help better when we target the effort. In the case of the start-up loan scheme, municipalities have a great deal of freedom of action. It is used as equity, and it is not least used to finance more loans to an ever-increasing extent. Start-up loans are a good scheme used by municipalities, and more and more people are receiving fully funded loans in this way in order to enter the housing market. It's very good if you're persistently disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1334	What we know is that if more people can own their own home, it has quite a lot to say for the neighborhood and wanted to take care of it. In the areas we are now talking about, there are persistently major living conditions challenges. That means that there are many people who are not among the poorest, but who have chronic poor advice, and who cannot stand up as a parent bank for their kids. Then we're not talking about very high pay, but about young people who might have come out of their first job, but who don't have the parent bank. That means they have to live very expensive and rent for many, many years. What is the reason why the government does not believe that a prudent opening up of the start-up loan scheme could allow more of these young people to establish themselves and both to fund their own housing savings and to contribute to the community, as we know they do better when they own than when they rent?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1341	We've had this debate sometimes. We are simply fundamentally in disagreement about what the start-up loan scheme is and who it should be for. I don't think it should be for a newly educated lawyer who earns little. I have been in such a situation myself, without rich parents who could guarantee a dwelling. The initial loan facility shall be for those who are persistently disadvantaged – those who are able to serve a loan but who do not have equity, who cannot fully finance and who do not receive loans on the ordinary housing market. They're going to get help from the state, and they're going to get help from the state. So there are more and more people who are being fully financed. They get a larger share than they did before, just to get into the housing market. While there was 34 pst in 2004. Of the young people who owned their own home, the proportion is now 42 pst. So there is an ever-increasing proportion of young people entering the housing market who own their own home. That's very good. But the government will help those who need it – not everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1348	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1356	I'm proud, I'm proud, I'm proud, I'm proud, I'm very proud of you. Together with the other 140 000 people who live in the Groruddalen, I like it there. But like many others who also live there, I am sorry that my home is used as a backdrop for special politicians from the Progress Party, who once again choose to have a desperate play on immigrants when polls show a decline – last yesterday, where representatives Listhaug and Engen-Helgheim proposed double punishment for us who live in vulnerable areas. Unfortunately, this is an example of government parties talking first and foremost. After seven years in government, nothing has been done to combat gangs and juvenile delinquency. It has increased the security of the Progress Party. We in Groruddalen and Oslo South want action. That is why we have promoted this proposal, because there are problems in these areas that need to be tackled and resolved in a serious and long-term way. We are proposing today that the police be more present, who know the areas, who know the people, who can prevent recrime. That is what the Progress Party is against. Today, we are proposing a stronger use of legal structures to confiscate in large values and expensive items owned by criminal groups. That is what the Progress Party is against. We propose today that the government intensify the identification of the cash flows of the criminal gangs and their leaders and how they use those flows. That is what the Progress Party is against. I understand that it is logical for the Progress Party to give poor people more punishment than rich people, but to me it is completely incomprehensible that one should get less punishment for the same crime if one comes from Holmenkollen than if one comes from Holmlia. We would rather have a police present who have time and resources to give priority to the fight against recriminalism. We must prevent vulnerable young people from being recruited to crime. Some young people grow up in burdened living environments and poverty, and the rest of the world offers social inclusion when society fails. This is why we propose a wide range of measures to improve living conditions and growth conditions for young people, because it is in our everyday lives that we make a difference. Good long-term and preventive work is about youth homes, social workers, access to sports facilities and leisure activities. It's about upgrading neighborhoods, about enough teachers and about free activity schools where all the kids get to join. It's about child protection, drug care and mental health resources. The feeling of exclusion can be prevented and hindered by policies, and therefore I am so disappointed that the government parties and the Labour Party are voting against these proposals and do not promote their own proposals. It's talk and talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1371	Self-ownership democracy provides good and secure living environments. It gives respect and predictability to the individual. In Norway we are so lucky to have 80 pst. lives in a dwelling we own ourselves. In Oslo, the whole number is 75 pst. We must take care of self-defeating democracy. Right wants everyone who wants to do it to have the opportunity to buy their own home, but then the solution is that you have to do it faster, easier and cheaper to build homes. The government has already simplified the legislation so that the construction costs per apartment are reduced by over NOK 100000. We haven't seen higher start-up rates of new dwellings since the 1980s. This is one of the overall reasons why the Oslo market is now relatively stable, but stable price developments in the housing market are not self-evident. This needs to be facilitated by building enough dwellings. It is then worrying that the Red-Green City Council in Oslo has only regulated 810 new dwellings in Oslo in 2018. It is directing towards a new housing price increase in Oslo that keeps first-time starters and disadvantaged outside the market, and it is a political responsibility locally. As if that were not enough, SV and the Workers' Party are opposed to the simplification that has reduced the construction costs by over NOK 100 000 per dwelling, and the same batches will have more debt into the housing market, which also leads to prices. Fewer and more expensive dwellings make it harder for people to get into the housing market, and that will be the result of a red-green housing policy. For those who are unable to buy a dwelling on their own, we need several rental-to-own projects. That's what we've been doing in government, and only over the last three years have almost 12,000 households gone from rents to owner-occupied dwellings using start-up loans. Politics is about prioritizing. Rather, the right will use start-up loans to help those who had never been able to enter the housing market on their own. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party would rather use the money to subsidise young highly educated people with high incomes into the housing market. That's an honest priority. Rather, the right will give priority to those who need it the most, and make it faster, easier and cheaper to build homes, so that anyone who wants it, even in Oslo, will have the opportunity to own their own home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1384	There's no doubt that our big cities have great opportunities, but it's also in the big cities we find some of the biggest challenges, especially in terms of social challenges. So I think it's good that we have this debate. And that's exactly why I think it has been important to reinforce and renew the area initiatives in Oslo and in other cities, like Stavanger, Trondheim, Bergen and Drammen. Only here in Oslo have we renewed Groruddalssatsingen, we have spread out the Oslo South bet, and we have also filled the inner East bet with more content. I could frame up everything we've filled these, but I don't have time for that, and I refer to the previous post from the Right. But precisely because things are going on, I think it'll be a little sad to listen to the Labour Party in this case – instead of talking about solutions, rather than talking about what the next ten years will look like, and how we're going to make sure that the working groups that are now set up locally, because we rely on local democracy, are best able to work out good solutions for their communities. That is what this government has provided. So saying that we haven't renewed our efforts, that we've pulled our legs after ourselves, is directly wrong. We have renewed our efforts and strengthened them – I must state that. That's why I also think it's going to end up being a little bit, what I'm going to say, posterior work from the Workers' Party, where in the Stortinget you almost want to overrun the good processes that are already going on between the government and the Oslo municipality and the urban areas. What are the new bets about? Where the last ten years were mostly about infrastructure, parks, housing development, etc., the best from there has been taken with it, but also renewed by thinking more about social mobility, creating local jobs, early schooling, getting more Norwegian training, a good integration effort, and not least work on youth crime. The last thing we see very clearly through the prevention team with which the police have been strengthened in Oslo South, and the Stovner Police Station, which has also been strengthened with several preventive positions, and then we have the good interaction between the actors in these neighbourhoods. So I would like to have a debate on how we can make our city a better place to live, especially for the areas that depend on social issues, but to say that we are not doing anything in those areas, knowing that there are projects going on while the representative of the Workers' Party is standing on the platform, it's going to be a political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1395	The centre party believes that the Storting should be careful to regulate matters in areas that are mainly local in nature. Such matters should initially be decided by local government or city council. Municipal self-government should be strong throughout the country, including in the capital. There is no doubt that there are areas both in Oslo and in other municipalities that have special challenges and need extra attention. The regional initiative in Oslo is an important partnership between the municipality and the state. Long-term work has fixed framework agreements. It creates predictability around the work, which I think is more appropriate than many new agreements and projects. Housing policy is important for area development. We need to ensure good housing for people in all situations of life and for people with different economies in the cities as well. The centre party is concerned with good communities and good living conditions for everyone across the country. Here, the House Bank is an important partner. The central party is critical of the government's cut in the framework of the Husbank and proposed, in the alternative budget, to increase the framework by 2 billion. kr in addition to the government's framework. Housing prices are very high in many municipalities, and cities are special press areas. Entry into the housing market is a challenge for first-time start-ups and disabled people. Owning one's own home is important to many, both for quality of life and economics. I think we need to look at the start-up loan scheme to see how we can help more people get into the housing market. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes a two-part start-up loan scheme: one pot for permanent disadvantaged, covered by the current scheme, and another pot for e.g. young start-ups with payment capability but without the possibility to acquire equity, those who build in municipalities where the construction costs are higher than the market value, etc. The aim of the proposal is to allow municipalities to have more room for discretion in the case of start-up loans and the possibility to offer start-up loans to young people who can serve a mortgage but lack equity. It will also provide room for local assessments of whether start-up loans will be appropriate in individual municipalities or whether it will only help to raise housing prices further. Here's room for more local discretion. In the case, it is proposed to give the municipality of Oslo the opportunity to abolish cash support in its area. The centre party believes that it is very unfortunate that a right law such as cash support should be made depending on the place of residence – just as wrong as giving different penalties from the place of residence. The freedom of choice of families is equally important throughout the country, and there is a great difference between families and whether children are matured for kindergarten when they are 10–12 months old. Then I think it is important that families should be able to make some choices that are appropriate for them, and they should have access to the same arrangements wherever they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1410	The representative of Kjønaas Kjos started his post with the fact that there is a problem in a municipality, and it is called on by the state. As if it were something unheard of; the Progress Party, of course, uses the state quite actively even when it suits them. We have seen the representatives Listhaug and Engen-Helgheim outside – not least yesterday – and are calling for state involvement to clean up municipalities and urban areas. Then it's called the police, on the judiciary -- which is a state responsibility, as far as I know. But here in the Stortinget today, the Progress Party is going to vote against. The Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposals No. Three, four, five. These proposals will be voted against by the Progress Party. The proposals are almost identical to the representatives of Listhaug and Engen-Helgheim yesterday were out in the media and called for state aid so that they could be cleaned up. Among other things, it is about limiting the money laundering, labour crime, cash purchases and money transport of criminal gangs, it is about being able to make seizures in large amounts and expensive items that criminal groups possess, and it is about the fact that the police are more likely to follow up on threats and attempts at extortion in which the criminal gangs are involved. This will be voted against by the Progress Party in Stortinget today. It's a rather strange way to rule a party and at the same time govern the country – they're in government. There are no limits to how much you can talk to double-tongue. In this House today, the Progress Party could make a difference to these proposals, no. Three, four, five. As I said, out in the media, there's a call for interference from the state, in the main hall, the Progress Party is doing something completely different, they're voting against. The party of progress departs when it is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1419	The Education and Research Committee visited Stovner Kinderschule in Groruddalen last week. 62 pst. specific Norwegian training is decided on by the students and the proportion of pupils with different native languages is 78 pst. Nevertheless, Stovner school is the second best school in the country in reading, writing and billing in the fifth grade. It's really quite phenomenal. First of all, it shows that a school can even out social differences. It also shows that it has been worth taking the fight against the SV school policy, that it has been right in the last 15 years to give early priority to basic skills and to create professional learning networks that constantly develop education and follow up on each individual child. I'm telling you this, because there's no doubt that we have to do more nationally, I think we all agree on that. The state must take its share of the responsibility for giving all children equal opportunities. We must ensure that people can be self-held, can participate in the labour market and can participate and take responsibility in their communities. Therefore, it is good that the government has increased the appropriations for Groruddalsbetsingen and Oslo South bet, and it is good that 45,000 more children are entitled to free core time in kindergarten, that the postal address does not decide whether a boy with low income parents is entitled to do so or not. It is good that unemployment among immigrants goes down in Oslo, and that we are reforming the introduction programme. Not least, it is good that we now get hundreds of teachers in Oslo, thanks to a civil majority. But it is quite alarming in this debate to hear how the SV and the Workers' Party actually waive their responsibility for a city they run. Many of the proposals are about earmarking government funding for several kindergarten, school and health care workers, because the City Council does not give priority to using the free resources for the same purpose. It helps, for example: not the establishment and funding of a pedagogical standard by the civil majority in kindergartens when a Labour Party-led City Council requests a derogation from the requirement and 400 kindergarten teachers are missing. It doesn't help that Oslo gets $246 million. DKK for the provision of services when every year the City Council spends its money on a wide range of measures other than care for drug users. It does not help Oslo to receive more support to strengthen Norwegian education in kindergarten when reports show that language work is weakest and that the pedagogical density is lowest in those areas that have the most poor families with children, and that we have a city council that does not want to target the efforts in these areas or to get knowledge of how language is developing. Area bets are important. It makes it possible to tailor actions and to play on teams with the community. But we cannot exempt local politicians from the responsibility they have to improve services and quality, whether it is to introduce a badly-encumbered language effort in the Oslo Children's Courts or to create a good professional community in the schools. The founding of primary schools shows that it is possible to work systematically over time and prioritize the most important thing in order to balance social differences. It took a teamwork, but not a teamwork where one member of the team only points to the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1434	The challenges in the Groruddalen and Oslo south are something that concerns us all. It is a development we have seen over many years, with major problems in integration, great pressure on immigration and also challenges of crime. My colleague, Chari Kjönaas Kjos, presented in a fine manner at the beginning of the debate on many of the good things that have already been done – arrangements for the construction of sports facilities and the financing of other actions of that kind. But as a lawyer and a member of the Judicial Committee, I am also concerned about the crime scene, and the fact that making more charged parts of the city will have consequences. I am very pleased with the work the government has done in that area as well. I think we need to be strict with those who are involved in crime and other things that we don't want in our local environments. A great deal has been done both in prevention, with dozens of preventers in these areas, and not least in police and police forces. It was as late as two weeks ago that new police signals were sent out that it would have a strict consequence for those who carry a knife, operate on that sort of thing, and that the fines have also increased for the kind of challenges that we have seen more of lately. I believe that more should be done. The government has done a lot, but I believe that you must also dry up the discussion of new thoughts. I would like to draw up an action with which the Committee on Immigration of the Advance Party went out yesterday, on something that has been successful in, among other things. Denmark, where double penalties have been applied to gang members and double penalties in congested urban areas in Copenhagen, among others, to ensure that in those areas where there are other types of challenges, criminal environments, organised criminals and others with a bad intention create even more problems. We have to do a lot about leisure, sports – that kind of thing – but we also have to be strict with those who make our city worse. As a member of the Justice Committee, I therefore believe that we need to have a strict line towards criminals and others with undesirable behaviour in these parts of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1445	It has been a very interesting debate today, with a number of suggestions – with a great deal of excitement. I will focus in particular on what was also the main theme of the succession with the Council of State, e.g. housing policy and the Husbank’s instrument, which also refers to proposal No. 17 from SV. When we see it, it's necessary to remember a couple of things. The ownership line is – as others have said – very strong in Norway. Over 80 pst. live in a dwelling that they themselves own. The party of progress and the other government parties want the most possible opportunity to own their own housing, which we have expressed directly in the government platform. In addition, we have a very active housing policy and are the parties that are the hardest to reduce and eventually remove the property tax, and to reduce municipal taxes, so that the Norwegian housing model can continue, and so that people can afford to own their own housing. There is a theme that I have missed that the left side of Norwegian policy is busy. We feel quite alone, but we're concerned that it's going to be cheap to own and to live in our own housing. Then we record that in the debate and in the proposal one says that one wants to look at start-up loans and expand it. I think it's a little special that the red-green ones, which we know had a start-up loan scheme that was less in billions than what today's government advises the municipalities, and which was less targeted than what today's model is, are so bold in the change of lines. It must be because it has been many years since they themselves put into government and administered this legislation, that they can now almost criticize us for being bad. Now we're spending a lot of money on this. If we look at the statistics, it will be used more in initial loans today than when they were used in red-green direction. There is also more targeted, so that it hits those who need it. It must be a goal for all of us to use the House Bank tool in such a way that it benefits those who need it, and not all. Nor should it be that the business of the credit market competes with the Husbank’s tool, but that it becomes a supplement and something that comes to the top and is targeted at those who need it. Then I also register that SV is talking about shared ownership in its proposal. There is something that was the theme of a government-designated building selection in 2011, to which the selection then did not give its support, and which I did not record that the red-green government took the initiative to introduce. So I think it's a little special that a party that put in government then, now suggests it. I do not believe that shared ownership will help make it easier and more reasonable to establish itself in the housing market, but that instead – and unnecessarily – it will help to complicate municipalities’ use of housing policy tools. In addition, we have strengthened the BSU system. So this government and this big crowd have done a lot to secure the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1458	It's almost comical to hear the Progress Party, which seems strange that parties who sit in government together have slightly different opinions about different things. They might see themselves sailing in the mirror a little more often and discuss matters instead of such. It is on the guard of the Progress Party that we have again seen a very serious outbreak of recriminal crime in some of these burdened residential areas in Oslo. That is why we are promoting this proposal on, among other things, strengthen the instruments against these gangs and this crime – and the Progress Party is against it. Instead, they come up with some strange suggestions that it should be less serious to commit crime in the Holmenkol lock and for the elite, who should have heavy economic silk cushions sewn under their arms, while those who are unfortunate and live in congested areas, it should be more difficult – instead of taking the responsibility of the Progress Party, who has been sitting with the Minister of Justice for the entire period of government, to clean up this and the need to have police in the neighbourhoods that know the young people, who can help prevent and detect. We know this works, but the Progress Party doesn't care about it. They are introducing and wanting to introduce a clean class policy. In terms of housing policy, the Council of State says that we cannot help everyone – but we do. We've got hard interest rebates for all of us who can borrow. That's $33 billion. kr over the State budget. The housing support has shrunk under this government, the loan from the House Bank has shrunk under this government, and there is a need to provide help to some of the young people who do not have legal training. This is about the assistant caregiver, about the kindergarten teacher, maybe about the newly trained policemen – all the ordinary workers who are going to fill all the usual jobs, and who, with today's rental prices, will never afford to save the equity that the House Bank could have contributed to, so that they could have entered the own market and started saving themselves. It would have been a much better use of public money than the government is currently doing. It is said very much strange in this debate. This can be seen, for example. that the government has now secured enough money for kindergarten teachers and enough teachers. No, those reforms are not fully financed. That's what KS says, and that's what all the municipalities say. That is why SV wants to fully fund it. We want to finance more strongly what we know will build the good communities, even where people don't have such good advice. We know that it will work, that more people will then get good lives, and that we will get less crime on the purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1469	I agree with Karin Andersen in one thing: yes, it is said very much strange in this debate, especially from the SV and the Workers' Party, which completely forgets that it is those who have run Oslo in the last four years. In particular, the local authorities are responsible for most of the work done in some areas. The justice sector is another sector, but there we have an independent prosecution authority. I am waiting for SV to make proposals that the Minister of Justice should give direct instructions to all police officers in this country. It's going to be a society that you normally don't want. It's a little strange for me to hear this debate. It's been over 40 years since I warned against a lenient and naive immigration policy, and now it's a total increase that sees the outcome of what I said at the time, that we have some strokes in Oslo where we have a huge integration problem. We have urban areas where the immigrant population is in the majority. They are not taught in Norwegian values and in how to live our lives here in Norway. They bring with them their parents and grandparents' culture, and it's a completely different one. So it went like I did in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, and I got a lot of hateful comments, as it's called today, to warn against. The result has now been that you have not listened to the proposals of the Progress Party in the last 40 years. It's the elephant in the room. There are 20 SV proposals, and immigration and integration are about not mentioned, as we know from reports that over 90 pst. of the convicts are immigrant youth. Then we have to change the integration policy. Then we have to make sure that all children born in Norway — especially in Oslo — can Norwegian before they start school. It's not enough to say that they're going to kindergarten. There are many of them who have been in kindergarten, but they can't Norwegian. We need to integrate by identifying language developments from the age of three and then deploy tools to ensure that all children can Norwegian when they start school, and that they have a good background in the Norwegian value base and in practice and use. In Oslo, 285 million are used. NOK in individual decisions on Norwegian training. There are 13,000 students, most of whom are born in Oslo, who must have special Norwegian education when they start school. We need to shift the effort from school to kindergartens and child protection and get better coordination of all the help measures and demand that parents do what they are told to do, in order to ensure that their children can Norwegian when they start school. Then the consideration of the children must go ahead of the parents' potential interest in maintaining their own values, their own culture and the system from which they have travelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1484	If it had been so that if we just closed the boundaries or made sure that youth who was born and raised here, spoke a little better Norwegian, it would have solved everything, it would have been simple, but I don't think that the Progress Party or the representative Carl I. Hagen's proposal is at all close to solving the challenges that we're pointing to here. The representative of Lauvås was concerned about something quite important: the government parties, including the Advance Party, like to talk about the specific challenges in the Groruddalen and Oslo south, but they do not want to talk about specific solutions for these areas – but that is what is needed. It should be a state task to give priority to these areas, and it should be done in addition to the regional initiatives that we already have today. I know that the Red-Green City Council in Oslo prioritises these areas. They have increased the municipality's share in the area operation. They prioritise free core time in the activity school, which has increased participation from 30 pst. to 90 pst. e.g. at the Furuset in Groruddalen. We want free core time in kindergarten, but it doesn't want the government, for the need-tested income limit scheme, which is the regime today, when it doesn't go out to those who need it the most, and it constitutes a poverty trap, perhaps especially for women who feel that it doesn't pay to work. So to the justice policy: it is still difficult for me – even with the posts that have been held here from several representatives – to understand the logic that we who live in vulnerable areas will get double punishment from what those who live on the west side will get for the same crime. There's no logic in it, but there's class justice in it. It is certainly true of a rich party as the Progress Party, but there is no solution in it for these areas. How does it help us who live where there are teenagers with 14-year-olds who threaten people with knives on the T-course? I want a police present who have enough resources and the ability to prioritize these areas, and who know the people who live there. We had that in the past, we don't have that now, and it's actually a state responsibility. If we are to improve the growth conditions and prospects of these young people, we have to start in kindergarten, we have to have enough teachers in school, we have to build up leisure facilities that these young people can actually afford, and make sure they get a job. That is why we have promoted a wide range of proposals today. I hear a lot of opposition to these proposals, but get concrete solutions that prioritise these areas and little willingness to take responsibility here in the Groruddalen and Oslo districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1498	There are three things I want to comment on. To the representative Carl I. Hagen: So it is the Progress Party that is responsible for the police in this country, and also in this city. And there's not enough police in the streets, there's not enough resources, there's not enough people, there's not enough time. So the responsibility lies with the government, not with the City Council. In terms of integration challenges, the key is to get more people to work. This is not a field government has delivered very well. Now, for the second year, we're waiting for a revision of the introduction program, which we just hear talk about, but see nothing concrete about. Now the government has been sitting for six years, and we're still talking about what we did in the red-green government, but not what the government itself has done in the six years. So to who has renewed and strengthened the new Groruddals bet. Just to tell you a little bit about the background, we had a Groruddalssating from 2007 to 2016. An agreement was made whereby the government would contribute 50 million. NOK 50 million and the City Council. kr. It did not take long for the red-green government to realize that this is a terribly important work, and that they would contribute more money. So for every year that went into the bet, the red-green government granted more and more, and the last year, in 2013, I think the amount was over 130 million. kr by the government. That was still 50 million. kr from the right-wing city council. Then it turned around, and the red-green city council granted more and more from its side and its budgets. The Government - the right-wing government - has granted less and less. Now we've got a new bet – that's quite right. But who has been the engine of that work? It's not right in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1511	I just have some comments. Both Kaski and Andersen talk about this with an address. Sometimes – or maybe every time – it's a good idea to get involved before you start commenting on them publicly. It's not your own address that decides which punishment you should receive. Also the millionaire from Holmenkollen will have to receive double punishment if the crime occurs in an area that is defined in advance. That is what the proposal is all about. Then I just thought very briefly to say to Lauvås: the party of progress governs the country by being in government. We do not govern the country by voting for the opposition's loose proposals that are far on the way as things are under work, or are implemented. To Karin Andersen and this about recriminalism: There I fully agree with Carl I. Hagen – so it is on the Red-Green Guard in Oslo that recriminalism has now flared up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1522	It is worrying that juvenile delinquency is increasing. Oslo is particularly affected, but other cities and communities also experience more young people becoming criminals. The average age of the gang members is falling, and crime is becoming more serious. I'm sure the reason is complex. It's about high school drop-outs, lack of community membership, and it's about bullying or poor integration. We clearly need different solutions. The fight against gang and youth crime must be fought primarily through prevention work that takes place around Norwegian municipalities, including Oslo, every single day. A good school with meaningful leisure activities and a good integration policy that enables immigrants to support themselves is one of the most important things we can do. It's a municipal responsibility to ensure, but it's clear that our cities have some very specific challenges, and that the state also has to be involved in taking some of the responsibility here. Let's do that, for example. through the area initiatives, and that work is doing very well – it is also doing well, among other things. by ensuring increased transfers to municipalities; the Municipality of Oslo has good budgets; they have a good opportunity to give priority to prevention within their own framework. And we'll do it, too. by means of measures such as the standard of navigation in kindergartens, which has also been identified in the past here that the Red-Green Town Council in Oslo does not choose to comply. We also need a visible police force, and I believe that cooperation between the police and the municipalities needs to improve. This government has strengthened the police in general. For the area we're discussing here today in particular, we've strengthened the police by 70 million. kr only in 2018 and 2019. Oslo now has 80 preventers who work every day to prevent crime on the eastern side. In comparison, Malmö has 20 preventers in Sweden. The Oslo police district has received almost 1 billion while the Right has been in government. kr more. That's good, but of course we will also continue to strengthen the police more. We're going to have two police officers per thousand inhabitants, and we're on track to achieve that goal. Finally, I would also like to comment on the proposal on the withdrawal institute. I fully agree that great cars and expensive items make some of the replicas exemplary for others. If you can take this from them, you can take it from them some of the status. That is why I am also pleased that the government will facilitate the strengthening of the detention centre. In August 2015, Professor Jon Petter Rui delivered a opinion on civil detention. That statement has been at the hearing, and I look forward to the government following up that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1535	The representative Kaski didn't think that the language skills were the solution to that much, and that was really what made me take the word. This debate is certainly about how we fight poverty, that is, where this is really located. It's about how a city that has poverty problems should be able to get out of everything it's about. All of them, the most important means of it is education, and it's job. It's the job that gives you the opportunity to play a role in a society, to be a member of society, to strengthen the self-respect you're going to have, by providing you with an income that brings you out of poverty. In that picture, language training and language skills are the key, and I think that might be a bit striking that we haven't talked more about in this debate. The integration strategy proposed by the government before Christmas is obviously of great importance to urban areas with a large immigrant population, and this is the case. Then I fully agree with Carl I. Hagen, you have to start early, and there is also a course that the integration strategy set out: increased core time in kindergarten, increased efforts to get your parents to send your children there, strengthening the quality of the kindergarten service where linguistic diversity is a central theme, enhanced language training in kindergartens, mandatory testing of language skills, new fixed schemes for reducing parental pay in the SFO – to mention what is about the lowest annual credits. Furthermore, I could have continued with measures that concern primary and secondary schools, in short, the whole way that can lead people to a better life. This is linked to point 9 of the draft representative we are discussing. There's an education billion asked for. It almost sounds like a cliché-- a billion here, a billion there. Let's start by working on results. The important thing is not how much money we take into a system. The important thing is what results we achieve. That's exactly what the new government is putting forward in the integration strategy. There are requirements for results and that we should not give up on acquiring language skills. More education works. The statistics tell us that it works. It should be an inspiration to all of us that many are able to get out of poverty traps. Then there's the results that count.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1544	It was the representative of Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde who made me speak, because it was said that kindergarten norm and teacher norm were measures that were now to solve some of these challenges. The problem is that, on the contrary, it reinforces many of the challenges. In Trondheim, we have the situation that the municipality has been good at investing in those areas where there has been a need to invest, has increased pedagogical density, has invested the teaching power in those schools that have needed it most. As teachers are now at school, they need to re-prioritize — move teachers from areas with area challenges to schools that need it less. So their area bet will be weakened. The same situation exists in Oslo. For example: Stovner school was the feedback that the separation of teachers, i.e. the requirement for continuing education, was a huge challenge because they have a large proportion of unskilled people. They were unable to hold on to the teachers because they were in the after-school education, and it was unskilled who had to teach at school. It's not good over time. The representative, Kjönnaas Kjos, said something like this, that the repeat crime happened on a red-green watch. No, the police are not a municipal responsibility. No, the police are not a county responsibility. The police are a state responsibility. It's the Minister of Justice's responsibility. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice of the Progressive Party. Although we have had changing justice ministers quite often, it has always been a Minister of Justice from the Progress Party, and it is the government and the Ministry of Justice that are responsible for the police. I am very surprised that the Progress Party is now voting against the three proposals that we are promoting, which are aimed at intensifying the identification of cash flows, at assessing a stronger need for lawmakers to make large-value seizures, and that we are asking the government to ensure that the police are more closely following up issues of threats and attempts at extortion in which the criminal environments are involved. I am very surprised that the Progress Party is against it. When we were on a tour in Oslo, we also received feedback that the presence of the police was weakened after the near police reform. In these vulnerable areas, even in Oslo, police presence was weakened following the near-police reform. The fact that it was weakened in the districts did not come as a surprise to me, but that there would also be a deterioration here in Oslo, shows that this reform has not been for the benefit of any municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1561	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1566	The representative Thommessen says that this is essentially about combating poverty. Yes, it does. So the government is doing the opposite, increasing the differences and making it harder for the most disadvantaged. But it's also about another very important thing. It is to put an end to the devastating message of many sheep, and as they have also received today from a representative of the Progress Party – that they should not actually be here, and that they are undesirable here in the country. There is a message given to some people, and it destroys all the trust and all the work that we want to promote with this proposal. We want to promote the opportunities to carry out good social prevention and strengthen it in all areas, including language training — and then in proper and not just with strategies. We also want the police to use tools when this crime occurs, and pick away gold bells and fine cars. We know it works, but the government won't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1571	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1576	Language is important. That is why we are proposing a language billion which the government parties are voting against. The government has also cut down on language teaching, in Norwegian education. But language is not everything. If you ask the 15-year-old in the Groruddalen, who is born and raised here, who speaks well Norwegian, if that's the language that makes it rise in juvenile delinquency, I think you'll get laughs in answer. You need to have a dialogue with the young people who meet a police force they don't know and who don't have the resources to follow them up and run with prevention. You have to bet on both kindergarten and school, and you have to give them an offer. You have to give them a free time offer, and you have to give them jobs and the opportunity to get out of the poverty challenges that are a real situation in the Groruddalen and Oslo south, and that we feel the government is not taking seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1581	Strengthened language training, focus on childcare access for families in a difficult economic situation and the possibility for everyone to participate in leisure activities are good examples of things that give increased inclusion and participation in society. In my previous post, I also mentioned a proposal that the Progress Party accidentally launched yesterday in connection with a sample we have had, on double penalties for people associated with gangs and those who commit criminal acts in vulnerable areas, which has worked well in Denmark. You have to disagree with that, I'm sure some of our government partners may also disagree with that proposal. You have to be, but I'm responding to SV trying to angle this as if it's about giving people who live in certain neighborhoods, double-punishment. This is about giving those who commit crime in areas that have already been too much exposed to that sort of thing, double the punishment. This is about giving criminals double penalties, not the inhabitants of these areas. This is about protecting these people to prevent these areas from being even more exposed to the kind of things that we don't like. In addition to facilitating good inclusion and offering in areas with challenges, it is important to be strict with those who make these areas even less pleasant. I believe that we are responsible for this – in addition to facilitating other types of action. I also want to talk a little bit about immigration and integration. It seems to me that some of the representatives from SV want to close their eyes because the massive immigration we've had in Oslo, and the challenges we've had with integration as a result of high immigrant share in some parts of the city, are not linked to the challenges we see in these parts of the city. High levels of immigration and poor integration into areas due to high levels of immigration are not just a problem in Oslo. It is a challenge that most major European cities have seen. It's a challenge we want to solve with measures, even though we often have different approaches. But if you close your eyes to the relationship between the challenges we see and the immigration and the difficult integration we've had in some places, I think it'll be even harder to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1595	Both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party claim that because we are voting against the proposals No. 3, 4 and 5, we disagree with the content. But we are voting against because it is not necessary to adopt things that are already under way by the government. It seems that the Workers' Party and SV have not read the letter from the State Council, Monica Mæland, last September – a very full letter printed as an attachment to the setting. All that is generally requested is under work by the government. A request decision to do something you are already doing does not matter at all. There's a blow in the air, and we don't have to vote for 'good Christmas and good new year' all the time, when it's completely unnecessary and does not have any practical effects at all, because the government is in full swing with the work. So to the police in Oslo: It is this government that has really been strengthened the police with new positions all over the country, especially in Oslo. The same letter describes the work done for the so-called vulnerable areas, which are densely populated with immigrants and immigrant youth. When you still experience that children born in Oslo cannot Norwegian when they start school, you should soon realize that we have to put the effort in place much earlier. If you can't be Norwegian when you start school, you're going to be put outside. Then you get the outside cabinet, and then the crowds are attractive. You have to be in a common unit already when you start school, and then there's one thing that has to be common, and that's that all kids speak Norwegian, so they can communicate with each other. We were given a decision in Oslo City Council to monitor all three-year-olds to find out which three-year-olds in which families cannot naturally Norwegian when they start school, to use the tools from the age of three – language training, courses, make sure they go to kindergarten where Norwegian is spoken. We were to do that from the age of three. We need to know who it is and what families it is. This immediately stopped the red-green town council under Raymond Johansen. Now you sit there passively and are amazed when children born in Oslo start school without being able to Norwegian. Then you're amazed. They have to thank themselves for that. That's why we need a completely different integration policy, and if you don't belong to the community with Norwegian as a common language from school day one, you fall quickly outside and get caught by gangs, and we get what we now have in vulnerable areas in Oslo, which is the result of 40 years' naivety of the other parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1608	I think the representative Hagen has forgotten that it is his party that is actually responsible for how the settlement policy in this city has been – I think he has forgotten that. It also says something about how this distribution becomes in the city. I also believe that the representative Hagen has forgotten the following: It is his government that has proposed and reinforced the cash support – which is both anti-integrative and anti-equality – and that says to immigrant women that they should be given the taxpayers' money to be at home and not to participate in the working life, and not to send the kids to kindergarten so that they can learn Norwegian at school. So that's the result of their policies we see. What is area bet? Area bet is about two things. One is that we have to do something with the great differences in living conditions, so that poverty does not pass on. It means, in turn, that we put small amounts of effort into young people, make sure that young people get the best start through a good school that allows them to complete their education and get into working life — that is, poverty is not inherited. The second is to make sure that the workline comes into place, because the biggest poverty trap is that people stay out of work. Then we have to remove the cash support, something the Workers' Party here suggests that Oslo should have the opportunity and that the Progress Party does not support. Then you talk about fighting crime. My town councillor in this town said we have to break these gangs. What did Ministers of Justice of the Advancement Party do? They sent a bunch on a bus tour to see what it was like, instead of setting up with money. That is the reality. And what does the Progress Party do? Yes, before Easter they voted down proposals that would help fight crime and these gangs – and then they propose the same after Easter. This is unprofessional. The integration policy and the fight against crime are about following up on action. That's what the Working Party does. The party of progress and today's government is about empty rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1617	Carl I. Hagen has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1622	The representative of Gharahkhani now reminds me of a story we heard about Einar Gerhardsen, who occasionally was going to give talks and had a script, and there it said: weak argument: raise the voice! That's what the representative was trying to do right now – raise the voice with bad arguments. Our housing policy? We have not pursued any housing policy. We have made proposals in the City Council and have been voted down by the Workers' Party – we have also done so here in Stortinget – that those who live by public benefits should live where the government rules. We have experienced a great flow of secondary refugees, people deployed in other municipalities around the country, moving to Oslo. They should have been sent back. They must live where they receive a financial contribution to their livelihood. And then we would say, you have an obligation to participate in Norwegian training so that you can speak Norwegian at home as soon as possible. The Workers' Party has always hanged me out to say that. I'm not going to repeat the expressions that have been used, it's far worse than what is today called hateful statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1629	Heidi Greni has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1634	I have a question for the Progress Party. Now that there are too many foreigners in Oslo, there are too many secondary settlements to Oslo, why has the Progress Party decided not to settle refugees in the smallest municipalities in Norway, who want to settle refugees, who have a successful integration and who do not have the problem of ghettoization, while continuing to settle refugees in the Municipality of Oslo? It's a challenge I've addressed before, and I don't understand the logic. I also have to comment on the cash support, because I notice that it was argued against the cash support because you want to get immigrant women to work. Not everyone agrees that this is important. Removing the cash support will not remove any of the obstacles that many of these women experience in getting work. These are languages, education and training, and lack of qualifications. We must start there and not remove financial arrangements that will only give more poor children in Norway. Such an arrangement will not be included in the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1641	Mari Holm Lønseth has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1646	I think maybe the representative Masud Gharahkhani has forgotten who runs in Oslo. It has not been very long since Minister of Knowledge and Integration Jan Tore Sanner made sure that we got new guidelines on how to settle refugees in this country. One of the things you took in there was that you didn't want to settle refugees in areas with more than 30 pst. Immigrant share. It chooses the Labour Party in Oslo to ignore it altogether. When you hear the opposition criticise the settlement policy, it's like you're criticizing it on autopilot. With the Right in government, we have ensured that the size of the municipality no longer has anything to say, but how good results they have. So that's what the Working Party in Oslo chooses to ignore. Rather, they choose to settle refugees in areas with 50 pst. Immigrant share.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1651	I'm not going to get involved in the ongoing debate at all, but when Carl I. Hagen obviously doesn't know the story well enough and adds to the famous quotation 'Poor argument: raise the voice!' it must be in his place to say that it's wrong. It was not Einar Gerhardsen who said the winged words, it was – I think – the legendary long-standing great-grand representative from Møre and Romsdal, who was an eminent speaker, Olav Oksvik, who came with those words. Right shall be correct when Hagen misinforms the Size.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1656	The court must be right! No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1674	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given by members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1683	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. This case concerns a proposal from the representatives of the depositors Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Karin Andersen from SV. In this case, a proposal is made to set up a public body to look at the possibilities of giving the Post Norway AS tasks other than traditional mail delivery, in order to secure the future revenue of the Post. The background to the SV proposal is that Stortinget has been waiting for proposals for a new postal law from the government for some time. It has been expected that this proposal will result in a decrease in the number of days of transfer from five days a week to two and a half days a week. Proposals are also made for decisions to postpone a reduction in the number of business days until the proposed investigation is available, so that any increase in revenue for the Post could contribute to more business days than the two and a half days that the government was expected to propose. A majority of the committee does not support the proposal in the case, and I assume that the respective parties speak for their proposals and opinions later. However, I would like to add some comments to the proposal. On 10 April, the Stortinget received a proposal from the Government on changes to the Postal Act. Here the government proposes that the number of day-carriage should be reduced from five days a week to two and a half days a week. This implies the delivery of mail every two days for a two-week cycle. The Committee carried out a consultation during the examination of the draft representative inviting all relevant and relevant actors to express their views on the proposal. The item itself, as a company, warned in the hearing against adopting the SV proposal, as this would create enormous uncertainty for the employees of the company. Work on a new postal code has already taken a long time, and it is urgent that the company's predictability get the matter under way. In this connection, the company pointed out that we will be down to a number of three letters per household in a short time this week. It goes without saying that it is not socio-economically profitable or in the interests of taxpayers that empty postal cars are driven. Societals are changing. Then the law and the service offered to the residents of the country must be in line with the actual need. The new digital everyday life creates both opportunities and challenges. It's not necessarily letters that are the most important thing for people when you talk about the post coming forward. In this context, it may be useful to recall that there will still be daily delivery to Post at the store and delivery at mailboxes. New services provided by the Post, which form the basis of the proposal, should be left to the Post itself to consider. The post is already free to provide other services, and therefore, in cooperation with Telenor and Bodø Municipality, they have an ongoing pilot project in which they offer new services to older people in parts of the municipality. Post is important for people, but it is actually necessary that the offer is in line with demand in order for life to be created to deliver mail. No one is served with empty postal cars, not Posten Norway, not the country’s economy – nor is the climate served by this either. I am surprised that SV has not mentioned it in one word in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1708	The post has had an incredibly important function in the nation of Norway for centuries. They have a proud story. The post was tied up in many ways together. The apostles' horses were used, common horses were used, boat, plane and car were used – and now it is used on the Internet. It's been a while since we heard the post horn, and it's also gone from the Post's logo. Anyway, the dramatic changes in the Post that we're seeing now, we've never seen before. It is, as in many other areas, the technological development that is speeding up. We do not need to send letters on the same scale as before, and we do not have the same need to receive window envelopes. It is clear that this will result in a large loss of income for the Post Office, which needs to adapt, as many other large state enterprises have had to do in the past. The proposal from SV goes on new tasks to the Post. Yes, there may be many possibilities, and the business activities are also free to develop today. And then there's something about state ownership: what kind of principles do we have for what we're going to force the Post to do with new things? It's probably the board that has to be allowed to decide that, and not the Storting. Nevertheless, it is an affordable initiative from Nävra and SV. There are also possibilities for the Post Office, such as: is now being tested in Bodø. We are being dealt with with by a new postal law in Stortinget, and the Right will actually await the big debate on the Post of that matter to be dealt with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1721	Ensuring that all citizens of Norway have access to basic postal services through the universal service that is an essential part of the Postal Act – proposals for new postal laws have also been promoted for Stortingen during these days and will be addressed subsequently – is crucial for districts. A single committee refers to the need to have the same good postal services in the districts as in the central districts. The emerging point, and the political disagreement, are evident when the question of how this should be done is debated. The entry Norway AS was established in 2002 and its ownership is clearly justified by the need to ensure the existence of a nationwide postal service provider. The centre party will bring the whole country into operation. We want people across the country to have equal access to public services. This means, among other things: equivalent postal services. The centre party is concerned that people in large parts of the country feel that services are getting worse. We can mention the centralized police, with the consequence that the uncertainty increases and the police become less accessible to people. Traffic stations have been proposed for closure, which means that many longer journeys will take place, among other things. when they are required to take a driving licence. In these days, we also see a change in the higher education sector with the closure of campers, which makes the supply of those who want to take up education in the districts worse. All of this doesn't happen by itself. It's about political will, and for generations it's been an explicit goal for us to build the country. That means good infrastructure across the country. There has been a political willingness to use resources to have this infrastructure, services close to people. It has also been a prerequisite for us today to be so lucky to have a scattered pattern of residence in this country, which is also not a matter of course. The Government wants to reduce the number of commitments for the Item to two and a half days on average in the week from 2020 onwards and in the long term only one day a week. Such conversion will have dramatic consequences, and the Post is an important national infrastructure. Maintaining the national distribution network is in itself an important societal task for the Post. Cuts in delivery days will also mean that a number of medicines, medical tests, veterinary medical tests and dental supplies that are dependent on sending out at short notice will have to be distributed in other ways. People are forced to choose poorer solutions. It will also affect local business, which depends on sending and receiving mail frequently. Not least, such a cut frame will be able to read paper newspapers in the districts. Today, almost half of all the Norwegians read a paper daily, and it is possible because the Posten delivers 173 000 newspapers on weekdays in the area. Although almost all newspapers offer digital versions of their products, the performance of the newspapers depends on paper distribution. It is essential to find a solution that meets the need for the papers to carry out six days a week. The Central Party believes that the main task of the Post is to ensure that people across the country have access to good and forward-looking postal services. A good and equivalent offer of postal services to the population, businesses and governments is a prerequisite for growth and value creation. Unfortunately, we now see repeated examples of poorer delivery of mail to people in the districts. We have examples that people have to lie about traveling up to 12 miles to get to the mailbox, as a result of the Post moving the mailbox further away from where people live. We also see that the Post appears to shift responsibility and costs for delivery to municipalities and municipalities in several places. This is disclaimer, and all this shows that the geographical differences in postal services are too large. We know that the amount of mail has fallen by 65 pst. since 2000. Forecasts ahead suggest a new decline. This does not mean that postal deliveries are less important for those who continue to use them. As the costs of maintaining current services increase, there is a question of prioritisation. Are we willing to pay for equal services throughout the country? There's a lot of talk about digital solutions. All of this has to make postal deliveries superfluous. At the same time, we see that today's majority do not have a political will to ensure a clear and proper broadband across the country. The centre party is in favour of examining new tasks and believes that it can make opportunities for better service provision visible to many. I then brought up the Senterpartiet and SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1744	The representative Bengt Fasterale has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1749	I want to draw up the slightly larger lines in this debate. In fact, I regard this debate as a debate of value. Why? What kind of society is what we want? What are we going to use our wealth for, our purchasing power, our revenues, to this rich state, all our funds? What are we going to use all of this for? We can ask ourselves some questions: are we going to apply it to well-being? Yes, I think most would say that is fine, but for whom and to what is the next question. Take us off the old ones, maybe? Yeah, sure. Create smaller differences, perhaps, between those who have not fully followed this digital development, who are not on digital platforms, and those who are? Most of us here in the hall are on those platforms. Maybe we want to erase that difference? Yes. That society takes care of important infrastructure and communication — yes, of course, most people would think so. Perhaps we should maintain residence and well-being in the countryside and districts? Yeah, right. Most of us come from there, either directly or as second or third generations. Maybe we should take care of those who are lonely, those who don't get to visit so often, who are very alone and not so easily seen, who may have lost a safety net around them? Yeah, that sounds nice. Maybe we're going to use a part of culture, isn't that what characterizes a high level of wealth? Yes. Maybe the papers are an important part of it? Yes, we can answer yes. Is not a high level of prosperity and well-being also characterised by a high level of freedom of expression, which requires good distribution of the free press? Yeah, maybe. Without any leads, without having this case in mind, I think 90 pst. Of the country's population would have answered yes to these questions, and then most people in this room understand where I want to go. The post plays such an important role in all of these fields – and then we see what happens. We get this ghost that goes over Europe, yes, all over the world, this nonsense of competition, the rationalization spook – earnings, earnings – and all functions in society have to be measured in money and returns, it shouldn't be inconvenient, as it says. Even health, patients, passengers and now mail delivery and postal couriers shall be priced as expenditure items or items of income. Do I hear an echo in the hall: market, market, market? Yes, there's an echo here. I don't think it should be a matter of course that the Post should go around financially, or go with profits. It should not be a matter of course – just as little as other important infrastructure measures, such as health, should. But in this case I have tried to think again and find new entrances that can hold frequent mail loads to the districts, so they get their 170,000 paper newspapers. That's what we're talking about. About 15 pst. by the newspapers are distributed by the Post. This is at a time when ordinary letter mail drops, we recognize it. That is what I say to the Progress Party representative who was recently up in the pulpit and asked for SV's position on that fact. Of course we're aware of that. That's why we come up with a proposal to reduce a wide-ranging selection to look at other possibilities for the Post. It is very strange that the majority here in the Chamber do not want to know how we can use the Post – which is there, and which is looking for all households in the country – in a better way. We can hit several flies in one taste. We might be able to offer new welfare services. We can maintain the mail delivery of newspapers for business locally and for those who need it in the districts. I think it's strange that you're so afraid of knowledge. I come back to the facts in other articles. SV will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Workers' Party if it is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1766	The next speaker is Jon Gunnes. - There's a script already here!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1771	I put it away for my own, President! It's not that far, but at least it's important what it says. It is the way that the amendment of the postal law will be debated later in this spring session, and we have, as the rapporteur said, waited a while for it to be submitted by the Council of State. It's now here, and that's what's going to be really exciting. But I assumed that this debate was a prelude to that debate, and it has been. That's why I wanted to speak. Now we're discussing the issue of exploring ancillary services that the Post is about to eliminate with market principles. It's a little different to put forward such a proposal, but it was to make money for a good purpose, that is, to maintain the mail delivery as much. But what are we going to maintain? What are you going to do when you almost don't send out any more letters? It's a clear signal from the Post, who are experts on this, that it's just going down even more, and it tells us that it might not be many years until it's posturing just one day a week. We're taking that into account. We don't think it's very good, but that's the situation now, and the nice thing about it, is that we actually get our letters right away. If they're sent from a public office, from a bank or an insurance company, we're getting them across the Internet today, with payment notices and stuff like that. So it's like there's some other services that the Post has taken on. One is advertising – it's almost like the Post has lived by the fact that it's the most important thing. I told a mailman one day it's violent for advertising you're wearing. Yes, but you can't take it away from me, because then I lose my job, he said. They've actually been the main promoters of advertising, they've paid for it, and it's a service that the Post has often won in some areas. The principle of stamping is also very good. There are many industries that are trying to live up to it, that is equal to service equal to cost -- it's exactly the same if you send something across the street to the neighbor, or if you send a little more miles across the country. It's good that it's implemented, and you have to keep doing that. But the newspaper issue, for which many have been concerned – and rightly so – is now being maintained. So it's going to be a good newspaper for most people, with two days, as well as the Saturday shift that's extra, because the postal code was changed a few years ago. This is a little bit to talk about the things that are coming. I don't quite understand that we're going to interfere with the Post Office's boardroom in terms of what tasks they're going to have in addition to delivering mail to make money. I think they're actually better suited to that than us, so that there won't be any directives either from the big business or the ministry on what tasks they're going to have to serve for the transport of mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1788	I think we're here -- in all parties, really -- in the same boat, or the same mail car, or what we're going to say. We see these challenges, all of them. The letter quantity goes down -- I think I'll say dramatically down; in fact, it's going down more than what the Post has calculated. So something has to be done. The paradox is that if we are to maintain today's distribution and the amount of mail continues to go down, we need to spend more money every year as the amount of mail goes down. Everyone sees that there is little sustainable in the future, so something has to be done. As you can see, the proposal from SV is affordable and very good, because there is an idea that the Post Office can look into whether there are other ways of obtaining income, which, in turn, can help to strengthen the postal service. Because we want it to be a national postal service – that people in urban and rural areas, everyone, have a good postal service. The SV proposal was probably promoted after the government had put forward a proposal to amend the postal law. Then the concrete bill for Stortinget has been presented afterwards. But already in the consultation draft, it was quite clear that one saw separately falling on the number of days of distribution. I would like to say that the Workers' Party – probably in line with many others – has had and has close dialogue with both the employees' largest trade union federation, Postkom, and the Post Office. I would like to make it clear that both Postkom and Posten believe that the time for changes in the number of transfer days is in place, and they believe that the number of days should be reduced in order to ensure that as many of the employees as possible are still full-time jobs. It's also a moment to take into account in this discussion. But both the Post and the employees' organisations have been very concerned that the transition must be neat, and that there must be a proper process. Most people do well to reduce the number of days by post, perhaps every two days — three days one week and two days the other, in one cycle, as the government has now proposed. But to hang the bells on the cats: it's the newspaper distribution that's the big challenge, and the government has now promoted a partial solution. But it is worth clarifying that about 75,000 subscribers today get their newspapers delivered by Posten. I guess that's something like 85 pst. of the newspapers delivered with newspaper offers and 15 pst. delivered with the Post. There is a significant share – five days a week with the Post Office, and then the own Saturday distribution system that has existed in recent years. A lot of this would be better if people had more access to the newspapers with digital solutions, but it's just 80 pst. of the population with broadband capacity based on the objectives set by the Stortinget – the target is likely to be 100 Mbit/s. Compared to other countries, 80pst. Very good, but we're seeing that with 80 pst. in Norway, four out of five have it, and one out of five have it. So some of the solution here is also faster deployment of broadband. Many of those who do not currently have sufficient broadband capacity will then be able to switch to digital solutions. We agree with the SV that one should consider whether it is possible to strengthen the income side of the Post, and whether the Post may have other tasks, but we do not believe that we can wait with any changes to the Postal Law until such a selection is completed. I repeat that it is important that we take seriously the situation the Post is in. We need to have a good time for conversion. We also support parts of the SV's proposal, to reduce a sample, and then we will come back to more detail in the debate The Stortinget will have to have a little, about changes in the postal law. And finally, I will address the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1816	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1821	Like many of the representatives who have spoken in this debate, I am also busy with a good and equivalent postal service throughout the country. However, it is tricking itself to believe that we can keep up a postal service that is not requested in any part of the country. It is really what leads to this representative proposal from the Socialist Left – simply because it is not that the state tries to take the postal services from someone, or that the government likes to get rid of the post, but it is that people have received e-mails. And the digital revolution that all the parties on the Storting are constantly talking about is so important, the change that happens in society that makes more and more digital platforms, which makes a person get faster and better answers, it also gives some challenges: simply that people stop sending letters. It might be the same or not, but it's the situation that Post is in, which makes it necessary to reduce mail transfer days. However, we should do this in such a way that we both care for the needs of Post for the conversion and the needs of the Post to be added to the Post – that the Post is closed with the process of conversion, so that as many jobs as possible can be secured in the years to come. When one hears parts of the opposition today – especially SV and the Center Party – this debate reminds me very much of the one I have heard about the school structure in my own municipality of origin over the years. Because that's a little like the right thing today: we want the Post running around, even if there's no letter to run out, the same way we like to have crossbows, even if there's no elephant left. It's probably fine in a political debate, but it doesn't fit in with the world's usual people out there actually live in. And that's what it's all about: it's about making the necessary conversion of businesses, which means that there's more consistency between the services that people need, and the services that the public provides. That's right in the post of the representative. Let's say that if we just spend money on this -- even if this is an offer fewer and fewer users because one sends less and less mail -- it increases the reputation of the welfare state if we just keep doing that. But the reality is that it's going to cost billions of dollars, which we could instead have spent on welfare services that people need: better hospitals, better health services, strengthening the care of the elderly and strengthening the school. That's what this is about. I understand SV's idealism: it would have been nice if a postal car were still running, for example. At home in Dalsfjorden, which is 4.5 miles long, with houses a little here and there, could have stopped and planted about a plant when one was still on the road, but it's not certain it would have been so good to get a newspaper to the last house – if one were to sneak around the fjord in that way. And that's what this is all about. I would like the Post to look at other business opportunities, if they think it's natural for them to do it. There is no one who has stopped them in it – we see that, for example. of the project you have in Bodø, which is also shown in the option. But that the Storting should put down a selection that looks at what kind of services a company could have provided, without including the company, which gives it of added value? Should a directive oblige the company to operate an activity itself not, because a public selection has meant that one should be able to do it? This is a suggestion that is fine on the desktop, but it should have been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1841	I want to ask the Council of State what is the background that he and the government don't want any more knowledge. It could result in more frequent mail delivery if we had got new ideas and new input from a wide-ranging sample. What's wrong with acquiring knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1846	There's nothing wrong with acquiring knowledge. But I'm assuming that the company, which is in a demanding process of conversion, is those who are most capable of gaining knowledge about what kind of alternative business they might see fit to enter. It wouldn't help with a public selection when it's the board of the company that has to make those assessments. This means that, where appropriate, such initiatives must come from the company itself. Then, in exchange for what I normally do, I will give some credit to the work that has been done in the publicly owned Post for very many years. It's one of the most successful conversions we've seen in public sector companies, owned by the state. It has happened on our guard, it happened when the Labour Party and the Swedish Government – simply a company owned by the public, which has managed to change, not only when there were market fluctuations, but when one actually operated in a market where the bottom had fallen out. I'm not afraid of knowledge, but it's the board, which has made an important transition, which may have to rent it in the further work within the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1855	I thank you for the answer, but I record very quickly that these are obvious policy lines in the view of state activity. A state company such as the Post should be able to have guidelines, have a framework, which is a big deal, and the board of directors must, of course, comply with the new framework that the Stortinget wants, or as the Council of State wants. I have to say that the advantage of a recording from such a sample would be that it could open some new doors to new income opportunities for the Post. Does the Council not see that this could open up an opportunity for the postal couriers, who are still running in the areas, so that there could be more revenue for the Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1862	The origin of the State ownership of the Post is delineated by the ownership message, through the statutes that operate there. The post is a company engaged in postal and logistics operations. They do that because that's what they can do, because that's where they've been saying they have their market potential, and because they've managed to switch to that market. I think if the Post should change to look at business areas that are adjacent to the activity that they already have, there are assessments that the Board itself can make – it's the Board that implements the Post conversions. If they think they could have been engaged in activities that are on the outside, they should be anchored by the ownership messages, which also apply to the Post. I think it's a much better and cleaner way of dealing with it than the way in which SV openbert has been involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1869	Then I'll turn the question a little bit. It is obvious that there are many newspapers – meaningful national newspapers and local newspapers – that will wear out, given the back cover we see: the new postal law. The big debate we're going to take the next round, but don't see the big problems many of these newspapers are facing, when we know that it's about 15 pst. of these newspapers that are being carried around today to all these households – by the Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1876	Yes, I see that, of course. That is also why I have adjusted the proposal after it was being heard. For example, local authorities have pointed to two clear conditions that must be better than those of the original hearing proposal. One was that if you were to get a reasonable newspaper distribution, if you were to contribute to media misdemeanour, you would have to have a newspaper delivery on fixed days, not rolling. Then one had to have a distribution where one came up to all the households in a fixed grid pattern. So we have put forward a proposal on this when we have said that even if we are going down for two and a half days with distribution, there should be three fixed days for newspaper release: Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday every week in a fixed structure. It takes care of the locals. We're going to spend 250 million. In the years to come – if this proposal goes through – to contribute to media shortages and to provide people with better access to their localities. Because openbert has... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1883	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1888	If the bill from the government, which is now under discussion in the Grand Duchy, is correctly understood, people will be given mail three days a week, i.e. Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and two days a week, Tuesday and Thursday, if I have understood correctly. And then there will also be a separate system for the distribution of newspapers, which – as far as we can see – are three fixed days: Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. And it is true, as the Minister for Transport says, that many newspapers have stated that there is at least a much better three-day system for newspaper distribution than that it should be different from week to week. My question to the Minister of Transport is: What kind of dialogue has he had with the newspapers about going to distribution three days a week, versus having the distribution of newspapers six days a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1896	Initially, I have focused on the audio recordings that have come. In addition to this, the Ministry of Culture – we do well to work across government departments – who have also worked with a media message, have dialogue with their organisations, so that we have had both the formal hearings and dialogue with them. The important thing for me in this was to be local, as a proponent to the media diversity. We believe that we have found a solution that unites the need we have to provide good services to the local people and to continue the necessary transition that is now taking place in the Post Office, and that I am pleased that the representative Myrli also expressed an understanding of the language of the Storting. This means that we can both convert the Post and deliver good news to people all over the country. And I just want to add that that was the most important thing for me. It was in spite of all the media companies that thought it was good enough with 90 pst. distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1903	To put it even more concretely, today, the Item distributes 15 pst. of the newspapers, 85 pst. distributes the papers even through different types of bidding arrangements, and then there is a separate regime for the distribution of newspapers on Saturday. The arrangements for newspapers on Saturday are then also on Tuesday and Thursday. My question was: Is it considered that the system should then also be Monday, Wednesday and Friday, i.e. that we had a separate regime for newspaper distribution six days a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1908	Yes, it would have been practically possible to do, if one would. There were none of the newspapers, either, that suggested it in the listening rounds. The National Media Association, for example, representing some major regional newspapers, suggested that one should have five days of fixed distribution in addition to the day we already have, but then 90 pst. of households. I think I would have been completely unacceptable, adding up to that 10 pst. by the population didn't get newspapers at all. That's why we looked at an alternative that makes everyone get an equivalent offer in the whole country, and then we did it based on buying Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It costs approx. Eighty million. kr, we estimate, per day, per year. That means it would cost more money to run out far fewer newspapers, because about 70 pst. of the newspapers come out three days a week or less. So we get most of the papers out doing it this way, and then we can spend the money on other important parts of the welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1913	We in the Centre Party are concerned that this proposal could lead to differences in the long term. The entry Norway AS was established in 2002 and its ownership is based on the need to ensure the existence of a nationwide postal service provider. I guess we all agree on that. The Council of State considers that the Post Norway AS should develop the company on a free basis. The company shall operate, on a commercial basis, postal and logistical services and other directly related activities. Now, when the state enters and drastically changes the assumptions for ownership in Post Norge AS, namely in terms of universal service, has it not been said at the same time that basic postal services and the objective of being equally good postal services throughout the country fall away?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1920	The answer to that is no. There will be equally good postal services throughout the country. It will be the same frequency as the Post output. We also ensure that we buy an equivalent distribution of local viewers. This means that where we, the state, buy services because the newspapers themselves do not buy self-distribution, where there is no today, we buy it equally in the whole country. That is the difference between the government's proposal and that proposal, for example. The National Association of Media Companies had. So the answer is simply no. We secure equivalent services, we buy newspaper distribution, and we make sure that the Post manages a necessary conversion, which to the seventh and last is what determines whether we can secure the most possible of the jobs we currently have in the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1925	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1932	A brief comment on the debate: As expected, the themes raised in the debate were ‘centralisation’, ‘value’ and ‘knowledge’. I guess it's not going to go under the chair that centralization will also be a topic when the proposal for new postal law comes, but this is a matter that's forced forward because people have different needs than they had in the past. Yes, it can slowly be discussed whether this is a value debate, but it is rather a matter of priority – what we are going to use the country's allocated resources for. It's probably not that you're afraid of knowledge, but the post as a company is enough able to acquire the knowledge they need to draw their business conclusions, regardless of whether we have a sample to look at. I thank you for the debate, and I say that we will probably get worse back when the proposal for a new postal code is being discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1943	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1955	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1964	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Grand total requests the Presidency to reintroduce certification from the party groups for the domestic service claims of the representatives.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size of the Presidency shall ensure that information at the overall level on the service requirements of the staging representatives is made available at the staging.no.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e1989	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand total asks the Presidency to launch an audit with a view to detecting any remaining cases of major fraud with travel invoices.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2006	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Presidency to increase the use of random samples in order to increase the control of travel bills on the Storting.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2030	The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2046	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 9-11, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to introduce the autonomous right of withdrawal for custody beds for the allowance of father’s father.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2072	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose that the prevention and follow-up of sexual harassment be included in the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on health, environment and safety [[HMS]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop and launch a programme to prevent sexual harassment in schools, which includes action plans and guidelines for dealing with sexual harassment in all schools.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2096	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to create a social contract that obliges active integration work and contributes to preventing negative social control in all religious and life-viewing communities receiving public support. The contract shall be drawn up in cooperation with the organisations of the religious and life views.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2113	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 to 6 and 8, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Grand Council requests the Presidency to draw up proposals for a new law for the Civil Ombudsman as well as a law for the Defence Ombudsman to submit proposals for gender-neutral titles. The Civil Ombudsman shall be replaced by the Civil Ombudsman. The Defence Ombudsman is amended to the Defence Ombudsman’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a recruitment strategy to combat gender inequalities in education and working life.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a programme aimed at combating negative attitudes and social control against LHBTI+ people. The programme is developed in cooperation with the organisations working in the field and shall ensure good integration and strengthening the training on LHBTI+ in the training for people in the introduction scheme.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a Norwegian public body on the human role and gender equality challenges’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start its own tripartite cooperation for increased equality, following the model of the Skeeie Committee’s proposal. The cooperation of the Parties shall receive annual funding from the State budget.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking in the development of a women’s health strategy to ensure that women are better investigated, treated and followed-up in health care, to strengthen research on women’s health in order to increase our knowledge of women’s health, and to integrate women’s health into all health-professional education.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2157	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide gender-neutral titles in all national businesses. Work on new titles must take place in cooperation with the social partners.» It seems that all parties – the Right, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green and Red – have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2173	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors held at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 29 April 2019 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2181	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-5, from Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 7-21, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a proposal for a programme for the upgrading of congested living environments, where children and young people themselves are involved in identifying actions.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2213	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Municipality of Oslo to abolish cash support within its territory, where resources can instead be used to get people to work, education or qualification.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2228	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the increased use of legal instruments to make seizures in large amounts and expensive items held by criminal groups and which they cannot demonstrate that they have legally obtained.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2245	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up the identification of the flows of money used by criminal gangs and leaders, with the aim of limiting the money laundering, the crime of labour, the purchase of cash and the transport of money to the families of the families of the members of the gang.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the police are more closely following up cases of threats and attempts at extortion involving the criminal environment. Police should make greater use of public prosecution in such cases.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2269	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the start-up loan regulation of the Husbank, so that applicants who are young or initially start-ups with a ability to pay, but without equity, shall be in the target group in order to receive a start-up loan. It shall be up to each municipality to manage this scheme locally, based on discretionary considerations, so that all municipalities can use arrangements to ensure that young people and first-time start-ups are given the opportunity to settle in the municipalities. The start-up loan scheme is divided into two schemes, one for today’s target group and one for young first-time start-ups.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2287	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government, in the State budget for 2020, to propose to significantly strengthen the State contribution to the Groruddalss bet and to extend it to include Søndre Nordstrand’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to enter into a long-term financing agreement for the area operation of at least 10 years that mutually obligates the Municipality of Oslo and the State and that underlines that the commitment will go further in time.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a long-term financing agreement to strengthen sports facilities, infrastructure for leisure activities and long-term operating grants for sport and local volunteering in areas where poverty among families with children and youth unemployment is high.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to introduce a pot from which sports clubs can apply for money so that they can hire resource persons in sport to counter class divisions.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce a pot that the Municipality of Oslo can use to reduce prices and increase the offer at the cultural school in areas where there are many families who are poor. This should be done in cooperation with the activity school.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to reintroduce universal half-day space in vulnerable areas of Oslo.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose publicly funded additional kindergarten teachers in municipal kindergartens in areas where many of the children come from low-income families.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a language billion for better Norwegian training for those who need it, so that more people can succeed in Norwegian social and labour life.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the inclusion of women dependent on social assistance in the target group of the Job Jansen.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a separate government teacher’s vow and for environmental workers in schools in areas of great poverty’. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for suggestions on how the House Bank can give young and low-paid people the opportunity to get into the housing market more easily by establishing several rental-to-own models, open up to start-up loans for more and shared ownership, where young and low-paid people get equity to buy housing in return for their share of the House Bank’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a youth guarantee to ensure that all young people under the age of 25 are entitled to work, training or qualification within three months’.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to review the financing of second-line child protection in the Municipality of Oslo together with the municipality and to ensure that this is not underfunded.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to earmark funds for strengthening health stations in the Groruddalen and Oslo South with good coverage of midwives.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the major cities in Norway have sufficient police resources to enable police districts to have permanent and permanent professional environments with local expertise in vulnerable areas to run the prevention of organised crime, gang problems and family violence.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2388	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2407	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2423	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasteraune on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public sample to look at the possibilities of giving Post Norway AS more tasks than traditional mail delivery, both to increase the service provision of many households, especially in the districts, and to ensure increased revenue for Post so that mail delivery can be ensured five days a week. The Postal Act shall not be amended in the course of investigations into new tasks for the Post.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2449	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public sample to look at the possibilities of giving Post Norway AS more tasks than today.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2475	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-30.ana.ud560e2496	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
