ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e25	Representatives Abid Q. Raja, Åsmund Aukrust, Lise Christoffersen, Jette F. Christensen and Siv Mossleth, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Finnmark: Steinar Karlstrøm For More and Romesdal: Tove-Lise Torve For Oslo: Mats A. Kirkebirkeland For Eastfold: Elin Tvete
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e85	Now I'm actually going to start by telling you how good things are in the Norwegian economy, that economic growth is still stronger than the long-term trend, that unemployment is at the lowest level since the financial crisis, and that there have been more jobs in all countries in the last year. It's not obvious that it's like this. Therefore, I would rather focus on the reason why things are going well – not just that things are going well in the economy. I want to talk about those who are going to have the credit that Norway will be at the top of the United Nations living conditions survey year after year. Norway will not be the world’s best country to live in by itself. Norway is the six-year-old who this fall has put on the school bag for the first time, and the grandparents who may live on another side of the country, but who see him as often as they can, the corps that always play when something is to be celebrated, and the sports team in neighboring communities that make sure there is light in the light loop. Norway is the founders of good ideas and dedicated, qualified women and men who develop these ideas into something we can live by. Norway is all the warm and competent people who work with health and care, all the industrial and oil workers who make us a world-leading nation in several areas, all engaged and caring teachers, and parents who get up early to lubricate food packages. For Norway, all that binds us together is also: our language, humanity, voluntary work and community — and oranges in Easter solstice. Norway is democracy, freedom of expression and equality. Norway is small differences and large opportunities — urban and urban. Norway is the headland of steep mountainsides, untouched nature and natural resources. Norway is a welfare society. The most important thing I and the rest of the government can do is do our utmost to make it that way in the future as well. We must take care of everything that makes us Norway, while welcoming development and improvement. We may have the best starting point in the world to seize the opportunities ahead of us, to make it possible for everyone living in Norway to take part in that trip. But we need to be aware of what obstacles we can face on the road, and prepare for how to meet them. The state budget for 2020 is the government's proposal for how we should do it, how we should equip Norway for the future and ensure a sustainable welfare society both for today's and for future generations. Right now, conditions beyond our borders pose the most serious threats to continued growth and prosperity in Norway. The trade conflict between the United States and China and the uncertainties surrounding Brexit are examples of developments that create uncertainty and dampen the growth of the international economy. Our best defense team to deal with this is to provide a healthy and solid economy and maintain a society where we trust each other, and a highly educated population. The main contribution to this is to make sure that as much as possible is at work. Therefore, every new job is so incredibly important. In the last year, 50,000 more people have come to work — four out of five in private business. For some, one job is the difference between being with or standing outside — being self-sufficient or dependent on financial help. For us as a society, it is the difference between being able to maintain the welfare community or not. We're getting older, as we know it. In the years to come, an increasingly smaller proportion of us are going to work, while more and more people are going to be pensioners and caregivers. The welfare arrangements will be put to the test if we don't succeed in doing things a little bit differently. We need to implement reforms that give us more well-being for less money, and we need to get more people to participate. Because it is not an alternative to increase the level of taxation, as someone is calling for. I have met many businesses during my 50 years of life – a variety of businesses with different needs and desires. But I still have the advantage of meeting one company that wants higher taxes. I also have the benefit of meeting someone who says they will work more if the government takes a greater part of his salary, or hers. This government has given priority to reducing taxes by 25.5 billion. kr since we received the government offices in 2013. International organisations such as the OECD and the IMF are promoting the tax reform as one of the main reforms implemented by the government. We've reduced the tax on general income from 28 to 22 pst. Next year, a normal family with two full-time incomes will pay NOK 9 000 less in taxes than in 2013. In total, this family would have paid NOK 48 000 less in taxes than they would have done with the red-green tax scheme. When families keep more of their income, it makes everyday life easier. They get more money they can spend on themselves and their – or invest in housing, for example. It is important for people in Norway to own their own homes. Living is not something people can choose from. The property tax does not take into account whether the owner of a dwelling is rich or poor, whether you are unemployed, retired or self-employed. It hits randomly and unsocially. As a result, from the new year we lower the limit on the amount of property tax that local authorities can charge, from 7 to 5 per mille. And no property shall have a tax base of more than 70 pst. the market value. We're aiming to further reduce the maximum rate to 4 per million from 2021. We'll come back to that as part of an overall community arrangement for spring. On 1 January, the NRK license is also history. After that, we will finance NRK over the state budget, not as a separate NRK tax, but in the form of lower personal deductions. A family of two taxpayers comes out roughly unchanged financially and enjoys the simplification because they no longer have to deal with an invoice. Minimum pensioners do not pay taxes, so they will save more than NOK 3000 a year on this conversion. And a single provider who pays the NRK license today will save NOK 1500. The left-hand side often says that a dollar less in tax is a penny less in welfare. That's wrong. There is one more penny for clothes, for food, for holidays, for Christmas presents or for leisure activities. It's well-being, and it's freedom. Higher taxes will not strengthen the sustainability of the welfare society. Higher taxes reduce family freedom to control their own economy and make it less attractive to work and invest in Norway – the opposite of what we need. Higher taxes are not just a bad response to the challenges ahead. It's a non-response. The government's answer is to get more people to work. Then we have to make sure that people want to work, that they have a job to do, and that we have companies that want to have their production in Norway – do not move it out because we have higher taxes than our neighboring countries. But we have to do more than cut the taxes – and we do. We prioritise measures that make it easier to start and run your own company, measures that make it easier to find capital, and less burdensome to report. We set ourselves the goal of making simplifications that save business for 15 billion. kr in annual costs. We reached that goal in 2017. Now we're going to simplify for 10 billion. Add kr. And that's not a once-in-a-lifetime effect. This is time and money saved every year, fewer forms to fill in, simplifications that companies notice in everyday life: taxes, VAT, bookkeeping, share laws and disclosures – to mention something. Better framework conditions for business provide both more and safer jobs, throughout the country where people live. Good framework conditions are also about the need to follow the rules. The development is going in the right direction. The government's efforts against unprofessional actors and the black economy have produced results. But we're not on target. That is why we are now proposing to transfer responsibility for tax collection and employer control from municipalities to the tax department. With 56 strong trade unions all over the country, this will give us better and more coordinated control. The interaction between the control body and the police will be easier, and similar issues will be treated equally. A serious and tidy working life shall not depend on local priorities. The budget also contains a number of other measures designed to make it attractive to a company in Norway. The business community has wanted to increase the hourly rate of own R & D work carried out under the TAX FUNN scheme. We'll follow that up. We also make it easier for small start-ups to use options to attract and keep key people. The 350-krona threshold for duty-free imports is being removed, and we are introducing a simplified system for the collection of VAT on imports of goods. This is how we balance business and consumers in a good way. We contribute to low fees for people who shop goods from foreign online shops, while giving Norwegian shops better competitive conditions. Norwegian business has gained significantly larger muscles in international competition in recent years. The government’s contributions include: have been pursuing a policy that provides stability, predictability and does not put pressure on the price of the crown. We will continue to do so in the state budget for 2020. We add up to an oil money use that is 0.2 percentage points lower next year, measured as a share of the mainland economy. It gives an output of 2.6 pst. by the State pension fund abroad, in line with the rule of action, which says we should use less than 3 pst. When things go well in the economy. This is how we prevent the pressures in the economy from becoming too high and supporting under competitiveness and further growth in urban and rural areas. It's the innovation in companies that's going to take us on – to a society that's more digitised, more knowledge-based, more climate-friendly and more sustainable. It is the sum of the efforts of all enterprises that give us a growth and diverse business life – several legs to stand on. Conversion will be faster and more painless as there is a better match between the competences of the population and the needs of our businesses at all times. The working life has changed a lot. Today we have to fill in professionally both faster and more frequently to hang out with. The competence reform Learn your whole life, as the government launched last year, has two goals: no one should go out to date, and more people should be able to do more work. We are now proposing to strengthen the appropriations for this reform. In addition, we will establish a competence programme to contribute to more flexible and relevant services that are in line with the needs of the labour market. In addition, we make it easier to combine work and education and continue to invest in professional subjects. We know that there will be a great need for skilled workers in the years to come. The government also works specifically to improve the quality of education in higher education. After we presented the quality report in 2017, this work has speeded up. Last year, we launched higher education quality as one of three stepping-up plans in the ambitious long-term research and higher education plan. This is what we are following up in the draft budget that we are presenting today. We have high ambitions for the Norwegian knowledge society. If we count on the proposals we make today, we have increased R & D appropriations by 12.5 billion. kr since we took over. In this budget, we focus in particular on research and development that can contribute to a greener and more technology-based Norway. We propose, among other things: to grant funds for the start of the pre-projecting of Ocean Space Laboratories in Trondheim. The aim is that this knowledge centre should be the best in the world in marine space technology, and educate highly qualified people into maritime nutrition. Norway will continue to be a world-leading port in the future. We're going to leave nature and the environment to the next generation in at least as good a condition as we took over it. That is why I am pleased that we are now seeing the results of the government's offensive climate policy. So far this year, electric cars make up almost half of the new car sales. Greenhouse gas emissions per capita have fallen to levels we have not seen since 1990, and projections show that they will decrease even faster in the coming years. When we took up the government offices, emissions from new passenger cars in Norway were at EU level. Today we are more than 40 pst. below. We are also world leaders in developing and using zero and low-carbon ferries. This government is actively using the tax system to make people and businesses choose climate friendly. Today is 80 pst. of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions either subject to taxation or to the quota system, and it is economically advantageous to choose electric cars rather than more polluting cars. At the same time, I would like to recall the global nature of the climate problem. It is irrelevant to the global warming from which emissions come. We have to fulfil our obligations, and we take our share of responsibility, both at home and internationally. However, addressing climate challenges requires cooperation and action both locally, nationally and internationally. The sea is a resource of enormous importance to the living conditions of the world. Due to conditions such as overfishing, plastic stowage and climate change, the sea is now under pressure. We will contribute to a better and more knowledge-based management of the sea and propose stepping up the sea by 100 million. kr. It is a contribution to both the environment, food safety and world welfare. All in all, we're going to give priority over 7 billion. aid-related measures in renewable energy, climate, environment and sea by 2020. We need to harness renewable energy and new solutions that reduce emissions. But we also have to be proud of the tens of thousands of employees in the oil industry. Norwegian oil and gas are produced in a way that is safer, fairer and more climate friendly than many other countries do. Not least, the competence of the oil industry can become very important in the green shift we're going through. In Stavanger there is an impressive example of this: the founders of the company Desert Control have used technology and knowledge from the offshore industry to develop a product that can transform desert sand into fertile food. Just think what such an invention could potentially mean for people on the run from the drought! Around our country there are many such examples. But we need even more. That is why we are now increasing the focus on research and development of climate-friendly technologies. With a green, smart and innovative business life on the team, Norway will be part of the climate solution. In this budget we continue many of the investments we see yield results – car charges, for example. In addition, we propose further measures to help reduce climate change emissions. We're changing the CO 2 tax, so that the price of emissions gets evener, and the incentives for emission reductions are stronger. At the same time, we reduce the user charge, so that the pump price of fuel does not increase. We're proposing 100 million. for the follow-up to the Green Shipping Action Plan and 700 million. kr in new capital to Nysnø Klimainvestierunger AS – almost a double of the capital held by the company today. In addition, we improve train provision and propose to increase subsidies for public transport in urban areas, making it easier for people to choose environmentally friendly transport. Overall, the government proposes about 5 billion. SEK for public transport, bicycles and corridors in the nine largest urban areas in 2020 and 26.8 billion. kr to the railway. We will phase in nine new trains, start a new major project on the Dovrebahn and kick up the activity of several large investment projects already under way. We want more train departures, more sleeping cars and better net coverage on board trains. With this draft budget, we have increased the transport budget by over 80 pst. since we joined the government. Between 2018 and 2021 it will be built approx. four times as much quadruple highway as it was from 2010 to 2013. This is the safest way we have. In addition, it saves business both for time and money. In a long-range country like ours, there are many reasons to give priority to both the road and the track, not least that we want living communities, where people are good and living. If we want Norway to continue to have both city and building, we must ensure that it is safe and easy to get to the store, school and handball training. We also have to facilitate that the corner stone company can survive even in places that are far away from customers. People don't stay where there are no jobs. In 2020, we propose to grant 69.3 billion. We are following up on the national transport plan, and we are already following up the tolling agreement in this draft budget. This means something to people. I want to share a story with you: A few weeks ago, the Minister of Transport and I were on Halsnøya, a small island community in the municipality of Kvinnherad. There is one way between this island and the municipality centre, which is located on the mainland. We were there to demolish the toll station on this road section – six years earlier than planned. On Halsnøya, there are people who have spent over 1000 kroner a month on tolls. It's going to be $72 000, in six years. When we landed, we were met by a crowd of waving flags and cheers. The kindergarten had put its lucky day here, and the schools had given the children free. Workers dropped the lunch to meet – not to meet the Minister of Transport or me, but to see the toll station fall. I don't think we drove past a house that wasn't flagged on Halsnøya that day. Every single penny to more road and less bomb, means something. This government is working purposefully to get the most out of every penny we invest in the transport sector, and we succeed! We dare to use competition as an instrument, and together with the industry we think new. We've done it on the road. With New Weier AS, we'll get more money for less. Now, when we open up competition on the South Railway and in train traffic northwards, we expect to save about 8 billion. kr. It's allowed to be proud of what we get in Norway. And it's okay to know that it's good to live in a country where the living conditions are best in the world, but we can't let it become a rest cushion. We must be aware that not everyone feels that they live in the best country in the world. Around us, at work and in the neighborhood, there are people who are struggling. Some people are struggling with health, others are struggling to get their ends to meet. We have a responsibility to both see and hear them. Every day we have to work for Norway to be a country where everyone has the opportunity to participate and succeed, regardless of background, gender, ethnicity and functional level. The tax system, transfers and services in health and education reduces the differences between us. We have to keep that. At the same time, we have to guard against making the safety net so fine that people get stuck in it. We have to catch those that fall outside without reducing incentives to work. Increasing social benefits is not an answer. That's giving up. It's letting people stay in a system where they depend on the state to set up. Helping those who are outside is about believing in them, and helping them back to participation and work, so that they can manage themselves. It must always pay to work. The government has taken several steps to include as much as possible in the labour market. One example is inclusion due, which should help people get a job, even if they have gaps in their CV or disability. The budget we are presenting today contains several proposals with the same objective: all people have something to contribute. Being able to participate in the labour market is both about getting the chance and about being qualified. Education is the main single factor contributing to the sustainable cohesion of social differences. That's why it means so much that record numbers are now completing high school. Last year we also went 55 pst. by those who completed the introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants, directly into education or work. That's the highest number in ten years. But we have to do even more. Work and knowledge are the key to integration. In the budget, we propose inter alia: to establish a new system of grants for the organisation of vocational and vocational training for adult immigrants. We're strengthening that part of the Job Dance that's going to give young people with immigrant background better prerequisites for completing high school. The government also pays a lot of attention to the smallest children. The earlier we manage to capture children who are at risk of falling outside, the more it means both for the person involved and for the sustainability of society. We continue to invest in early work, and strengthen the quality of both school and kindergarten with the renewal of the profession and measures to increase the skills of employees. For some of us it's starting to be a while since we finished school, but I think everyone remembers how much the teacher had to say. We must ensure that both the teachers and the content of the teaching are up to date. Children are different – someone likes to draw, others prefer to play football or climb trees. Some are supersocial, while others like themselves best in peace and quiet. That's the way it should be. But it should not be that there are economic barriers that prevent them from participating. We want to raise child benefit by $3,600 a year for children up to six years of age. It gives all young children's parents a slightly more liberal economy. And the greatest difference does it for those who have the least. The test for children over six years of age is extended to several municipalities. We know that many children don't get to take part in leisure activities because the family doesn't have the money for it. With the leisure card, they can get their equipment or membership quota covered and don't know the feeling of not getting in because Mom and Dad can't afford it. Helping a child is helping an entire family. The government has previously introduced free core time in kindergarten for children over two years of age from low-income families. From next year we want to expand the offer of free full-time space in kindergarten to two- and three-year-olds in reception. We will also grade the parental payment in the SFO by income for the first and second stages and provide free SFO to students with special needs of 5-7. steps. These are measures with many positive effects, particularly among those most excluded, immigrant families, for example. Mother is often at home with the children. When children are given the opportunity to go to kindergarten, mother can work or take education instead. Once again, this will help to make the whole family more integrated, better knowledge of languages and more income. It is crucial both for integration and for the sustainability of the welfare society that we be able to get more immigrants, especially women, into work. Our goal of integration policy is for more immigrant families to cope with themselves. In the budget for next year, we will turn the efforts of the integration grant into actions that provide more education and qualification. Together with the integration promise and the new law on integration that is being consulted, this should deliver faster and better results. With a sustainable immigration policy, we can provide better assistance to people with real protection needs and integrate those to be in Norway. When we control the borders through a restrictive, legal and responsible immigration policy, the need for asylum seekers becomes less. For the first time in 21 years, there are less than 3 000 people living in reception facilities in Norway. Arrivals have not been lower since the 1990s. In 2020, the costs of asylum-only reception will be EUR 5.5 billion. kr lower than 2016, a decrease of more than 85 pst. It gives room to give priority to good integration measures and to properly accept quota refugees. The Government therefore proposes to continue the quota of 3000 transfer refugees in 2020. Everyone who's been really sick knows that nothing means more than good health, and how invaluable it is to get the help you need when you're at your most vulnerable, and how much it means that someone extends a hand, or takes the time to say some comforting words. Health and care have a major place in the budget next year. We prioritise a good hospital economy and provide more modern hospitals with new technologies and treatments. We also put in place measures to get more doctors and medical specialists. The action plan for the drug field is over-filled with the draft budget for the year. The waiting time for drug treatment is more than one month shorter today than it was in 2013. In hospitals, waiting time is reduced by more than two weeks, and almost 60,000 fewer are in hospital queues. It's an important task to work for the queues to be even shorter in the future. A patient who gets faster and better treatment gets better quality of life and returns to work faster. The quality and capacity of care services should also be improved. Our older ones deserve a good old age – safe and dignified. Kåre, who has lived all his life in a small fishing storm in the north, will have as good care as Margaret from the Winner. In 2020, Margareth and Kåre will have their own senior representative. The Ombudsman shall promote the interests, rights and needs of the elderly and engage in what concerns the elderly in all areas of society. In the budget, we are also proposing to provide 2 000 lucky day care places in municipalities and local kitchen solutions in hospitals and nursing homes. For many older ones, the meal is what they look forward to most. Municipalities receive a growth in free income of 1.3 billion. kr next year. It allows them to continue to provide good quality services and care. The local economy has been strengthened by more than 30 billion. kr since we joined. Today there are only ten municipalities on the so-called ROBEK list for municipalities and county municipalities that are in economic imbalances. That's the lowest number in the 18-year history of the registry. With this year's budget, we will achieve two important and ambitious objectives: to meet the long-term plan for the defence sector, so that appropriations are actually increased by over 8 billion. kr during the period 2017-2020 and to increase the police density of two police officers per 1000 inhabitants. It shows that this government takes the people's security seriously. Security is a prerequisite for freedom. In the 2020 budget, we are proposing to increase the appropriations for the defence sector by 2.5 billion. SEK to, among others investment in submarines, maritime patrol aircraft and new artillery to the Army. Police are also getting more money, which will put police districts in even better position to prevent and deal with criminal acts. We propose to provide the police and the UDI with funds for new Schengen systems for border and territorial control. It provides them with better tools to detect and prevent crime, ID fraud and illegal migration. We are strengthening preparedness in the northern regions. It is particularly important at a time of increased activity along the coast, but also important for a region. The government also aims to establish a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø from 2022, based on civil lease. There are many points of light in Norway at present. But the wind that is now blowing over the world economy can suddenly increase in power and become a storm. For a small, trade-based economy in a large and cohesive world, it's not an alternative to scalding the hatches. But we are well rusted – regardless of wind direction. Six years in government has given me both a deeper and a broader perspective on our society. Most of all, it's made me even more aware of how much it means that we share some basic values, that we have high trust in each other, that we have good work ethic and broad agreement that we have to take care of our common resources for the best of society and of the economy. It has proved to be a steady base mountain even in troubled times. In the government budget for 2020, the government continues the line that has proved to work well. We are pursuing a responsible economic policy and a business-friendly policy for stable and competitive framework conditions. We maintain a society with good welfare arrangements, small differences and great opportunities. We contribute to a greener and more modern Norway, and we take people's security seriously, because it's all about them – the people, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e241	A comment round is now opened, limited to one entry from each group of lots with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representative of the opposition party is given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, a comment from the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister will be opened in up to 3 minutes to the end. The President requests that the whole comment round be taken from the two interlocutors on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e252	We are many who are proud of our country, but when a government budget is created, one has to ask: what is this country that we need now? What our country needs now is a fairer and more climate-friendly Norway where more people have the opportunity to work. It is a direction for the country for which the Labour Party will take responsibility. Unfortunately, the main picture from the last seven state budgets is that the government is failing the next generation. Neither on climate, on fair distribution, nor on value creation, they show the courage or action needed. This is a government that can afford tax cuts for those who have the most, but who can't afford medicine for migraine patients. It's a government that believes they have time to wait with the big decisions to get climate change released. Last year, the climate has increased in Norway, even though we have made a commitment. It's probably true, as Erna Solberg himself has said, that it's tougher to stand for the climate in a government where there's someone who's not so busy with it. The Labour Party has submitted proposals for a budget where we also show where we are cutting in climate emissions, i.e. our own climate budget. But the government hasn't done it this time either. The working party wants the North Sea to become a European carbon central stock, also because it will be able to create many thousands of new jobs. The government hasn't been able to decide now either. Climate is being pushed out in time, and they are being pushed out of the country. We want to cut more home. One area in which the Minister of Finance was in that is positive, and which I want to draw out, is the meaning of sea betting. There's something the Labour Party has been asking for a long time. But the plans for the North Sea should see more in context. Marine wind, carbon storage, more electrification of the oil platforms – this is something that should not only happen in jerks and whiskers, this should be done in a targeted way to build new industries. The Norwegian economy is going well. That's good. However, there is concern in the global economy, and there is something that can also infect us. Before, we were in the top level on the part of people at work. In 2009 only Switzerland and Iceland were above us. Last year we fall to a sixth place. In the last six years, there have been four new young people unemployed every single working day, and the proportion of young people who have not completed secondary education has been larger. We don't have any more money to spend on more in cash support, on tax cuts that don't create jobs, or on multinational groups that want to get into the welfare and get rich on the tax money of ordinary people. The money must be used to keep people at work and to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e269	I think the post of the representative Hadia Tajik testifies that it was written long before she read the government's budget papers. This is a budget that strengthens the climate profile by 2.2 billion. kr. So it is not a cut in climate action, it is a very strong reinforcement. We do this both by increasing CO2 taxes and in a wide range of other areas. We're strengthening the commitment to green shipping, to mention something. I would like to remind the representative that the tempo plan for CCS was dealt with by the Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget, and the government is following it up in the state budget for 2020. This is not a budget that has found room for the huge tax cuts. Nevertheless, it sounds like we're spending the money on significant tax relief on the representative, Hadia Tajik. No, we don't. In this budget, we spend the money to secure the social profile and to make it easier for more people to get into work. Then the Workers' Party must also be prepared to discuss how we set up the tools to do so. If the Labour Party's answer is that it has always been, that is to say, to strengthen the arrangements that keep people out of work permanently, it is a very poor response to make it possible for more people to be able to participate in a situation outside the labour market. This government is doing something active to achieve this, through the possibility of combining work and education, in order to facilitate that more young people do not fall outside an early phase of life. But then we have to be willing to look at the tools we have, and set them up in a different way. I'm not sure if Hadia Tajik would write this post if she had done it after she had read the government's budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e282	We've read the budget. Then it's clear that the Minister of Finance probably knows the best thing for herself – she's been working on it for a year, we've got a tight hour. But the Minister of Finance is probably also more cautious than she herself is aware of. We haven't opened this budget and been overwhelmed and surprised at what it looks like now, when, after all, it's the seventh state budget presented by this government. What we see, as the Minister of Finance says, is that they have not made any major new changes on the tax side, but over time the tax arrangements for this government have nevertheless had consequences. It's an unsocial profile where the richest pay less. In practice, tax cuts over almost seven years mean almost 125 billion. kr in lost income to the country. We also see that the government over these years has proved to have a policy that is double unsocial, first that many of those who want to work do not come to work, and then that those who are not in work are cut off – as if it makes them easier to get into work – for example. the fact that the unemployed are deprived of their holiday money, or that those on redundancy receive less work and less clarification, but are more at risk of being pushed into disability or social assistance. I feel that the government is so short-sighted with its proposals that it seems that the main goal of the government is to sit in government with each other, and that the use of money is then glued to a government with four parties that pull in each direction. Then it's not so very strange that the next generation doesn't get the priority that the next generation should have. It is clear that the final reading of the budget remains, but we are concerned that the consequences of the budget now presented are that more jobs will also be moved out of local communities. Flat cut in the public sector over a long period of time does not necessarily mean more efficiency, it can mean poorer supply, especially in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e295	It may be worth it in a day like this to remind ourselves that even a state budget that is so large, with so many billions of dollars and so many items at once, ultimately is about the everyday life of ordinary people and what we choose to prioritize. It has been brought forward before today, including from economists, that it is very positive that the government adapts the way it spends the money to the economic situation. Tightening in good times enables us to deal with more difficult times. With the creation of 50,000 new jobs in Norway, four out of five in the private sector, it contributes to the financing of our welfare state. But there are also 50,000 people who now have the opportunity to go to work. There are 50,000 people who get to experience the important well-being it is to have a bad time in the morning, or that someone calls and asks, "Where are you going to be?" It's also well-being. When we have increased revenues as a result of more people getting the well-being it is to work, we can also increase the bet on climate and the environment. We can keep the pace of CCS, which is an important measure both for our industry and for the climate. We can increase the amount of early school effort, which is so crucial for the little boy or little girl who hasn't been seen in the past, but who is now being followed up. We can do it so that more people complete and pass high school, and we have to continue to have a policy for absenteeism to go down. Through this growth, we can ensure that 1.6 million more treatments are carried out in the health care system and that the waiting time continues to decline. It is absolutely crucial for those who are in a difficult situation, either with a simple or with a more complicated suffering. And we can bet on 2,000 new lucky days care places, which means that several older people who are entitled to care and safety get it. We as big ones don't have any money. All the money we spend comes from people. And they come from being created all over Norway. Therefore, it is also essential that unemployment is low and that more people come to work. It's positive that the employment rate is increasing, but it's not good enough if we're going to be able to bear the welfare of the future. This is why the government’s inclusion powers, which are further strengthened in this budget, are crucial to ensure that several of those who experience being outside, who do not feel that they are part of the society for which work is so important, are now given the opportunity to enter – through individual job support, by providing functional assistance for those who are struggling with addiction, mental illness or disability. The finance minister has quite rightly pointed out that there is concern about us in the world now. I think in many countries they would want them to have the same budgetary rounds as we have in Norway, even on a day how many like to criticize. But precisely because we're going to get ready for the future, we also have to make sure that more people come to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e308	The Minister of Finance has, for example, gone through the whole budget and many of the efforts made by the government next year. So let me stay with a couple of things that show a very clear Advance Party impression in the budget. From 1 January 2021, the maximum tax on property is further reduced, from 5 to 4 per mille. In total, we will have reduced the maximum rate of property tax from 7 to 4 per million, almost a halve. It's important because property tax is fundamentally unsocial. It does not take account of the income of the individual; it is completely blind. It's so easy for politicians to push the bill over to the municipality's inhabitants instead of making real priorities. Even in good times, it does so as it is now. If we look at what the big cities in particular do, they're taking away the clear will of the majority of people to pay less property taxes. Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim go together with many, many billion dollars in profit. However, they are now lowering the bottom deduction, which means that with the smallest dwellings they have to pay more. It is twice unfair, and it unfortunately shows well the huge red-green taxpayers, who hit the common man and woman in the street. They should certainly have been saved for that. We are also very pleased that the toll agreement is being followed up in next year’s budget – 1 400 million. kr for toll cut in the districts, over 1 billion. kr for racial protection on national roads, and a strong strengthening of the collective effort in the large cities – paid by the state, not the drivers. With next year's budget, the transport sector will have increased its budgets by over 80 pst. since 2013. Otherwise, it is gratifying to see that the long-term defence plan is being met, that we reach the goal of two police officers per thousand inhabitants, that the special benefits for refugees in the population are being removed, and that there are to be 2,000 more and better hospitals. Let me comment on some of the recording of today's debate at the bottom of my post. Yesterday we could read that the Labour Party spokeswoman, Rigmor Aasrud, who until before the weekend was the party's fiscal figure, gave out strong criticism of the decision of the Governor and the Governing Council to increase the interest rate at the previous interest rate meeting. It is not a new practice that the opposition disagrees with the position's budgetary proposals. That's how it should be, and that's how it's going to be in the future as well. But it's a completely new and dangerous tradition The Workers' Party now starts when they challenge the central bank's professional judgement. It is now only Donald Trump and the Workers' Party that are in charge of this line in democratic countries with independent central banks. It's not a good club to be a member of, and it's a very scary line and not an example to follow. Fortunately, politicians don't set interest rates, it's the professionals who do. We're going to care about, and we're going to argue about, fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e323	We have just had a choice from which people have said clearly – that’s enough centralisation now, you want to develop all of Norway. The leader of the Progress Party, Finance Minister Siv Jensen, has experienced that they are almost gone – in municipalities by municipality there are no members of the Progress Party again. That's what I call progress. I'm not sure Siv Jensen will do the same. They still have one rapporteur after the fall, so you should think she'd learned a little bit, but it seems that the government has seen it as a starting point to centralize even more, for the last and a half weeks we've set a new record in centralization. I almost didn't dare turn on the radio, because once you have turned on the radio, you hear a new news like this. Last Monday, three to four billion kroner were to be taken from municipalities that have power revenues – it's for good that they should have. Then I'll turn on the radio on Tuesday. Two-thirds of the country's District Courts are to be closed — district courts are not to be held around Norway. Then I'm in on the Internet on Saturday. However, you should not cut in Brønnøysund either, because it has not been cut enough in Helgeland already in the Nesna and Sandnessjøen cuts – you should now take Brønnøysund and Brønnøsund registers. When I got up today, I thought that now the government might have calmed down a little – but no. Now, 237 tax offices are to be set up around the whole of Norway in massive centralisation. The Progress Party and the Right have a huge belief that centralisation and government is the answer. On Friday, Prime Minister Erna Solberg was indignant when the Center Party said it was a systematic and targeted centralization government is operating. Today we see again, Prime Minister, that once new proposals come from the government, centralisation and red tape are the answer. However, when it comes to other, large-scale projects, with which health businesses come along, you have money – such as: to Ullevål. The starting shot is 29 billion. kr. I wonder: Is it quality assured? I have had enough quality control in the Ministry of Finance to set aside 29 billion. kr to a solid new hospital building here in Oslo? Then to the tax policy. There have been two things that a total mass has lifted powerfully. One concerns the brewing industry. A total increase has repeatedly said that the type of charging policy that the government led there affects Norwegian industry and Norwegian value creation. Now that we're reading what's in the state budget, you're saying you're not going to do anything, you're just going to increase the fees further. It affects Norwegian jobs. Secondly, a total increase decided to look at the employer’s contribution to the banking industry because of the tax on banking, particularly affected savings banks around Norway — important jobs in all parts of the country. The government is doing nothing. Summing up, this is a new budget for major differences between people and more centralisation — a poor budget for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e336	There was one thing I was absolutely sure about when I got up today, it was that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum would write the word ‘centralisation’ before he had at all read the contents of the state budget. I was also quite sure that he would think that transferring the tax collection from the municipalities to the tax rate is obviously such a centralisation. I thought I'd show the representative Vedum a map of what he calls centralization. [[state councils hold a Norway map]] The representative Vedum is trying a little fine when he claims that both the power tax committee and the proposal of the Court of Justice are the government's proposals. The representative Vedum does not know that. With regard to the tax on power, a public body has investigated this. The government has sent it to the hearing, but I and the Prime Minister have been very clear that if we are going to follow it up, it should not be at the expense of the municipalities' revenues from being power producers. Always looking for ways to reorganize society in order to solve our problems in the best possible way for taxpayers, the representative Vedum should be a little bit more concerned than just sedentating everything as it once was.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e345	We have a government that has forgotten that we are going to develop the whole country, which believes it is too expensive to develop the whole country, which has forgotten that some of the success stories in Norway are that we have had basic services in both large and small places, and that there has been a Community project that we have raised from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south, from the westernmost islands to the deepest forests in Trysil – it has been a Community project. Of course, centralization is going from 237 places to 56 places. It's classic centralization. The problem with all the government reforms is that it is the same answer every time. When we see the experience of the community reform, there has been more bureaucracy, not less bureaucracy. There have been solutions that people don't want, like, The fold – a solution that no one can be excited about. When you look at the tax package: Who is there another one? Of course, when you have to save money, it's for the young, those who have the least in the past – that's where you have to save money. In the case of important district industries, such as: The food industry, Norway’s largest mainland industry, is not being used to help that industry. It is seen against those who are fishing and fishing, where the charging policy is to be tightened up. You see it in the different deductions, where you don't adjust the price, so the deductions go into value. For example, the country's commuters are going to get less tax credits next year than they have this year, even if you've already cut as much commuting as you've done. It's a very clear systematic. Last year, Siv Jensen stood here and boasted – she was so proud, because she had reduced the electricity charge by one penny. A fee that had increased 5 cents in the years before, she reduced by 1 cent. This year they will start to increase electricity charges again. This is a government for centralisation, for major differences, and every single time in every budget comes the new grip. The new major act of centralisation in this budget is to cut down 237 tax offices – classically low centralisation policies and government governance policies. Siv Jensen has gained too much faith in the state bureaucracy and too little confidence in the local wit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e359	It feels good finally to know. Over the last few years, we have had several leaks or breaks in the government's proposal for a government budget. Some of that I've been happy about. Last night we could read that eleven months of study funding is in place in the budget. That's what I thought was a joyous news of an otherwise quite sad evening, where Manchester United lost to Newcastle. But what I've been curious about is where the money comes from. I have to say that I am disappointed that the invasion is so irresponsible, because almost no matter where you turn in this state budget, you find new welfare cuts. A number of these cuts are primarily creative. You could think, where does it take it from, this government? I think you have to be good inventive to start cutting in the social welfare of glasses for children with visual impairment or for dental regulation. But even more serious are the massive cuts of lone dependants, of the recipients of redundancy payments and of the disability pensioners. In addition, this is the seventh year of ABE cut, and here we find the hidden welfare cuts. The so-called efficiency improvement that lies here does not go on cheaper paper in the printer, it goes on less money to hospitals, maternity care, criminal care, universities, colleges and more. The state budget is perhaps our top governance document, and then it must be a tool to solve our greatest challenges, which are the dangerous and unfair climate change and the increasing differences in power and wealth. This draft budget does not reflect that. In terms of climate, it's quite still, and in terms of differences, it goes backwards in this budget, which once again takes from the poor and gives to the rich. Not doing anything to combat climate change is insanely arrogant, when we in Norway have eaten up a lot of oil and earned money that poorer parts of the world are already experiencing climate crisis, already have to flee from their homes and have already lost the opportunity to produce food where they live. This was supposed to be the budget as the celebration that we achieved the 2020 targets, and instead it seems to be a budget that burys them, and also has no plan to achieve the 2030 targets. The government has spent a lot of time both today and during the throne debate saying that things are going well in the Norwegian economy. We are all pleased about that, but I would like more people to know about this wealth. We have to distribute the money more fairly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e370	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Foss, that it is important to look at where the money comes from, how we finance everything we are concerned about in this room, where we are going to spend more money. But the main coverage comes from tax revenue – tax income from ordinary people, tax income from our businesses. It is those who contribute most of what finances all the welfare arrangements of a government budget. So it's wrong -- this isn't a budget of welfare. Rather, this is on the contrary a budget that strengthens the social profile of those who have at least already, by increasing child welfare, by adding an extension of the leisure card, by grading income from the SFO, by ensuring that we adhere to good welfare arrangements for those who need it most. But going through the arrangements and looking at how they can be better and more accurate, I think every government owes it to do, every time you work with a government budget. We're not going to take from a single child who needs glasses the right to get it. We're standardizing the rate, so it's going to be the same all over the country. The offer is going to be there for all those who still need it in the future. The fact that we put in place the redundancy scheme for young people under the age of 25 and use the same money to strengthen their chances of getting into work is simply good. We cannot go on in a society where more and more of us are standing on the outside of the labour market. The worst possible start to a long working life for young people is not to see a future in Norwegian employment. So I also noticed that the representative Foss went on a little extra hard as she defined which cuts are included in this budget. She took a little bit, so I think it's a good idea to read the documents one more time. Continuing the reform of red tape and efficiency should only be lacking – that we are demanding all state agencies to streamline their operations by 0.5 pst. Every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e381	I haven't been at this house for so long, so I feel that I still have healthy enough eyes to make me any thoughts about how it is here. What I see is a bunch of elected representatives who have a completely different view of who they are here for. When I hear the answers given here by the Council of State, I think there are answers that make sense to people who are similar to the members of the Government. This budget is pleasant for those who are well seated in it and who will not live long enough to feel at worst climate change. It is clear that welfare systems are going through, but what the government is doing here is that it is going through the welfare systems with the aim of saving, with the aim of cutting, so that you can give even more to the rich. This budget does not solve our two major challenges. On the contrary, it adds to even more climate change and even greater differences between people. We're on our way to a warmer globe and a colder society, and it's not just happening, it's a conscious policy being pursued because it's comfortable for us sitting in this room. This is a good budget for powerful people with millions of wages in Oslo, but we must remember that most ordinary people are losing their lives on this policy. In climate policy, I am sorry that we pay others to cut. What would mean something to the climate in this budget would be if we were to facilitate the scaling down of our own oil business or start our own efforts on carbon capture and storage. It may seem that the Right Party and the Advance Party have spent years rigging the tax system for the rich. Then the Left Party and the Christian Party come into the government, but they do nothing to counteract this, they just continue on the same unfair run. We need to know who we are here for, we need to know who needs the most in this budget, and we're not sitting here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e396	This government is good for Norway. We see the opportunities, not just the challenges, in a Norway that leads as a green country in the world. Because even though we believe in the individual, we're also aware that there are some challenges that are too big for someone to solve alone. We want Norway to be a leading country in climate and environmental action. We're going to be a source of inspiration for countries around us and show the world a green transformation based on green growth. We cannot allow the freedom of future generations to be restricted because we did not understand that there are some challenges that need to be solved through international climate cooperation. At home, I am pleased that this government is increasing the CO 2 tax, carbon capture and storage rates and making record investments in trains, buses and railways. Our electric car bet is formidable. The tax relief is SEK 4.7 billion higher in 2019 than in 2018. All in all, it's going to be over 12 billion. kr next year. There are almost 250,000 electric cars in Norway, and air quality in all Norwegian cities is now freshly reported thanks to Left’s penetration. And not only in the cities, but also in the districts, the air is now very good. This electrification also takes the Left in government further to sea – on ferry and speedboat connections throughout Norway. As liberals, the Left is concerned that people get to live a life of freedom. Education and career are part of defining us as free people. Unfortunately, social and economic factors restrict this freedom. The left wants a country where everyone is free to take the education they want, regardless of social and economic background. There are now many parents who wish they could give their children more time in kindergarten or more time in the SFO, and already at this young age, background and origin are in place to limit the freedom of children. That the government is now following up the Left's banner on the SFO, etc., we believe that freedom policy is in practice. We want powerful, free citizens who can take control of their own lives and their own careers. And the left has faith in start-up businesses. I have traveled all over Norway and seen those who dare to bet, who are working their way and taking risks where we don't dare, in the cities and in the districts. AS Norway is going very well throughout the country. Four out of five jobs are created in the private sector, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years. That's good. The availability is also low in the districts. I am proud that this is a government that understands that man-made climate change will be solved by man-made climate solutions – a government that will give everyone access to a good school and education offer, and that our main task in business policy is to make it safer and easier to create their own and others' jobs. I also want to mention 1 billion. D to increase the poverty rate, 11 months of study support and 1.5 billion. kr more in assistance. All of this is a social liberal freedom story that I and Left can stand in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e414	Let me first thank the Minister of Finance for providing a good budget. That's the first budget after the Christian People's Party became part of the government, and I'm sure we'll have time to discuss the impact of the Christian People's Party on this budget in the future. The headline on the throne and the government platform is a resilient welfare society. A sustainable welfare society has led us to have safe families, and we have a society that invests in young people. Over time, we have seen that there are too many young people growing up in families below the poverty line, that there are too many young people who have not had the economy to be able to participate in major public arenas, such as leisure activities, that there are too many young people who have not received the help they need in school, early enough, and that there are too many young people who have grown up in a day-to-day form of violence and abuse. The efforts towards this have been increased in the budget by the Christian People's Party and negotiated. Now we are involved in putting forward a budget that also has a real boost for the most important thing. Children's unemployment should be increased by DKK 3600 per year for the smallest children. The system of leisure cards is expanded, teacher standards are fully funded, and the combined effort towards violence and child abuse is now up to 1 billion. kr. The child protection privileges are increasing. In addition, there is free full-time space in the nursery for two- and three-year-olds in the reception of asylum; there is lower parental pay in the SFO for 1st and 2nd grades from low-income families, and there is free SFO for 5-7 students. steps that have a specific need. That's good policy. But if we're going to create a sustainable welfare society, we need a Norway that's not itself enough, but also looks beyond its own borders. In this budget, we are increasing the aid budget by 1.4 billion. DKr, a priority for sub-Saharan Africa – the least developed countries – more clearly. One directs more of the assistance towards education, so that several people can manage themselves. Not least, they give rise to a proper rise to vulnerable and marginalised groups. The climate crisis will hit the lowest, hardest. Therefore, we need to cut national emissions and increase global efforts. The most important thing this government has done is that one has pursued a policy that makes it more expensive to pollute. One gets a proper boost with an increase in CO 2 tax, and a good deal of pressure to create the solutions that will take us to the zero-emission society, whether it's the zero-emission fund, green shipping through Enova or the licenses to Nysnø. We're holding up the pressure to get carbon capture and storage. Summing up, I think it'll be time to discuss the impact of the Christian People's Party and the others and the rest of the state budget, but I'm sure it'll be a government budget that builds a viable welfare society with a responsible tax regime and a moderate use of oil money, and that hangs on to the most important thing. In a troubled world and with the Perspective message, which says we're going to have to take tough priorities forward, we're very privileged to be able to discuss a government budget with the governments that are now in the lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e434	A year ago, we received the proposal from the government to the government budget of the year on the same day as the United Nations Climate Panel's 1.5-degree report. The distance between government policy and research was enormous. That distance is – if possible – even greater today. In this state budget, the government itself calculates how much they can cut by 2030 with their policies. Their calculation this year for next year's budget is 18.8 pst. By 2030, about as bad as last year, and it is far less than half the government itself has promised – promised the world community, but also its own voters. In the short term, the government even expects an increase in emissions over the next few years. So the government plans for an emission confirmation for future generations. The main problem with government climate policy is that they give with one hand and take with the other. Let me give you some examples: Higher CO 2 tax is good, increased bets at night and is good for both people and the environment, and the increase in climate adaptation in the UN climate fund is good use of 200 million. kr. Unfortunately, however, this is zeroed out of other measures in the same budget that increase emissions, because when the government increases the CO 2 tax – the main instrument of the government to make pollution more expensive – so important that it is what the Prime Minister emphasises when she is visiting the UN – spending the 250 million. to prevent this charge from having any effect on the price of petrol and diesel by lowering another charge. The most important sector in which the CO 2 tax would have had an effect, road transport would be completely sabotaged. It is also reinforced by the fact that the government in this budget shows that they increase the entry point for which cars are to pay the CO 2 tax. That is, they exempt more polluting cars from the charge they have imposed themselves. While the government makes sure that there are more sleeping places on night sicknesses, they use billions on new highways, many of them on the exact same distance as these trains go, so they also sabotage the competitiveness of the trains. In addition, they have made it cheaper to fly on all domestic voyages and within Europe – they did last year. And that's the ones that the North is taking the most of. Although it is good for the government to increase the allocation of the UN Climate Fund, Norway is unfortunately still not close to granting its fair share of the climate funding promised by rich countries to the world community. We can do better, Norway is rich in so much. But instead of listening to the researchers and to the population, who are rebelling against broken climate promises, this government has chosen to have fun within its own comfort zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e457	I disagree with the actual description of the representative of Bastholm. The government is presenting a very offensive climate budget. We are strengthening our efforts both at home and out with billions of dollars simply because greenhouse gas emissions are global and need to be solved both at home and outside. With regard to the claim about the changes we are making in increasing the CO 2 tax and reducing the user charge accordingly, I suggest that the representative take a look at where the emissions in Norway actually go down as quickly as possible. It's just in the transport sector. The instruments of this government are working. The measures we have taken to change our car fleet mean that we now have the highest density of electric cars worldwide, that new low- and zero-emission cars are moving faster than ever before, and that emissions from this sector are falling rapidly. So politics works. It is an honest thing that the MDG's approach to this is to introduce more bans, more injunctions, that we should simply not recognise that we live in a long-range country where goods are to be transported from the districts to the markets of Europe. This government acknowledges it. We see the need to develop rail infrastructure, while continuing to develop the necessary roads. What's interesting is what kind of cars are running on these roads. That the density of electric cars is now so high and the proportion of low-emission cars is rising, is a sign that emissions can continue to go down without we putting obstacles in the way of people living in the districts who depend on getting to and from work with a car. So for the projection of emissions. I think there is a lot of good news in this budget about how the development pathways are going for emission reductions in Norway in the future. We have a lot to enjoy. I think we should also recognise the common measures we are now getting in place, which will lead to a sharp decline in emissions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e473	What the Minister of Finance calls offensive is that they are not even able to implement half of the emission cuts that the government itself has promised. So it's offensive for the government not to follow its own goals, not to follow what we've promised the United Nations, not to follow what we've promised the voters, but just to be able to refer to a policy that cuts 18.8 p.m., where the government has said at least 40 p.m. and now also started to say 45 pst. This is reinforced by the fact that the government does not guarantee an investment decision for full scale CO 2 management by 2020. So once again, this investment decision is being pushed in spite of clear warnings from business, environmental movement and also the Municipality of Oslo. Emissions are rising in the short term due to oil, and emissions are expected to increase in the next few years in the oil sector. It shows me clearly how the debate on Norwegian oil policy is not just about where we are going to be in 20 years and 30 years. It is also about emissions in the coming years. The Prime Minister was here last week warning against a more ambitious climate policy in fear that it could weaken the confidence of the voters, and it reveals to me why the sum of government policies in this area is so poor. That's not the list of climate action I'm criticising. That's the sum, because we also have the huge investments in motorways that go exactly the same distances as the train. The government exempts the polluter pays principle in the most important sector, road transport. It's because the government makes it cheaper to fly in a country where we fly more than anyone else, and that's one of the most polluting things we can do. I believe that we can develop this country further without increasing emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e485	Once again we get a budget that increases the differences. It seems that the government is thinking more of themselves struggling with the measurements than of those who are struggling in our society. There's not as big a cut for them at the top of the table this year, but the government continues to take from those sitting at the bottom of the table. People on redundancy pay are getting cut back now, and the growth of the local economy is being zeroed into a so-called efficiency requirement for municipalities with the same price tag as the increase. In addition, the tax on property is cut. This will force well-being in many municipalities. This shows that the government looks at the welfare state a bit like the boy in the TV series Exit looks at his spouses: something they talk about nicely in party speeches, but inside it seems to be too expensive to operate. The budget increases the differences, both by wallet and by postal code. There's never been so many new billionaires under this government, and it's not random. Since the government took over, they have increased the taxes on the rich. Now we're up to 15 billion. kr annually in tax cuts only on wealth, inheritance and profit-making enterprises. Siv Jensen has rightly been called the toll queen. We can call her – just as striking, I mean – the difference queen. The government overlooks the undermining of the Norwegian model. The goal has been the whole people in work, in permanent and secure jobs. There is little help for more and more employees when more and more of the jobs are carried out by migrant workers in short-term employment. We saw in the national budget that three out of five new jobs go to guest workers. Now we see that the industry is moving in the same direction as the construction industry, where increased rentals and labour immigration have led to massive social dumping. This doesn't take the government seriously. We could spend our budget on new welfare reforms for most people, for example. make dental health cheaper and free of charge in the long term. But instead, the government serves old bottlenecks. They have used up the room for action on budget leaks, toll settlements and tax cuts for the richest. It may give the government and the sponsors of the government, but it won't be a budget that spends the money on the most important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e496	The President will point out that it is inappropriate and unparliamentary to characterise representatives or a Council of States such as the European Union. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e501	Queen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e507	Now it is the President who has the floor. The president doesn't want that kind of characteristic. That's not how we talk about each other in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e514	I saw that the representative Moxnes had already written his post yesterday – what he was going to say today. I think he had to adjust the course a little bit after opening the budget documents, for the jam so it looked a little different than what the representative Moxnes probably had imagined. I think it's getting a little bit hollow. On the one hand, Moxnes says he's concerned that most people have to afford to live in their own home. On the other hand, he criticises the government for reducing property taxes, which is precisely making the difference between people's ability and ability to live. The property tax does not take into account how much income you have, it hits blindly and socially. Our commitment to reducing property taxes helps to strengthen the security of the ability to live in owner-occupied dwellings. But here the representative changes the Moxne's argument. He suddenly becomes very concerned with the community economy instead of being concerned with the individual's wallet and with social and fair distribution. So here the argument changes a little bit as to what fits into the reality of the Moxnes. I also seem to hear a criticism that many companies in Norway were profiting. We're going to be happy about that -- that we have profitable businesses that employ more people. 50,000 people have come to work in Norway in the last year, four out of five in the private sector. We have to have more of that in the years to come. Our private business must go with profits. They must be profitable, they must be able to make new investments in more jobs and in more areas of the future. That is the basis for funding welfare schemes and other expensive promises made by the parties in election campaigns after election. So to the issue of social dumping: one of the instruments in this budget to combat black work and labour crime is to transfer the chemistry from the municipality to the tax haven. I hope that is a measure for which the representative Moxnes is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e525	Let me first say that I will not give Siv Jensen resounding titles – at least not in this room. I'll reserve that for the royals. With regard to Jensen's answer, our criticism is that the richest tax cuts in the country have been given. They've given 316,000 dollars in tax cuts to each of the 4,000 richest individuals in our country. It's about large sums when you add them. So they're going to have 1.4 billion. kr in tax bills from Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg as long as they have managed – money that could instead have been spent on strengthening the welfare of the country around it. I would be a little careful to highlight how socially fair the budget is, when those who get the bill, among other things. are the young people on redundancy pay, who receive a cut of NOK 70000 in their benefits. It will hit hard those who really need help in our society. That is what the government is proposing, and I think that is deeply unfair and also deeply unsocial. In addition, we see in the budget a proposal for a completely irresponsible closure of Ullevål Hospital, which the Progress Party and Siv Jensen themselves have addressed throughout the spring. They thought it was wrong to spend a lot of money laying down Ullevål and building a giant hospital in Gaustad. It will result in a fragmentation of the medical profession, which we need together in one place – not least if major accidents, terrorist attacks or disasters occur. Then it is dangerous that the environment is divided and divided between two hospitals, as is the case with the government. Here was the Progress Party and the Left High and Dark in Spring. They were supposed to stop any borrowings to build up on Gaustad. Now, unfortunately, they are turning around in government and giving green light to the closure. It's a shame for people throughout Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e536	It opens up for a comment at the end of the day from the Council of State, Siv Jensen, in up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e541	I think this round in essence shows that the opposition has found fine little to criticize in this budget. It is a budget that ensures that we secure the welfare systems, which ensure that more people come to work, which ensures that we can continue to develop all the good schemes that we are happy to have, and on which, in reality, there is quite a broad and cross-political consensus. Hadia Tajik said that over time the government's tax arrangements have had consequences. Yeah, I totally agree with that. As a result, the Norwegian economy is now going very well, our businesses are going in profit, businesses are looking for more, and most people are going to keep a little more of their own income, which is also well-being for the individual. We should be glad that the economic policy that this government has pursued over many years provides good results and security in a troubled world economy where more and more countries need to downgrade their growth estimates and where the uncertainty of the world out there characterises the growth of the world economy. For the time being, Norway is a safe port in that context, but we too may be affected by this. The government has prepared well, and we have economic muscles in case this should start to have consequences for the Norwegian economy as well. There have been some allegations, not least from the representative of the Battle of Vedum, about increases in fees not included in this budget. We don't put higher bills on the commutes. We do not increase the electricity charge, even if the representative Schlagsvold Vedum claims it. The fact that we are now also introducing a CO 2 tax for fisheries is a long-standing increase, which means that everyone must be part of the solution to bring down greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. This is a budget that strengthens well-being, it is not a budget that cuts it. But we have to dry out systematically going through all of our arrangements to set them up so that it hits the best of those who need it. There is no attack on young people on redundancy pay. Rather, it is a contribution to facilitating the future of young people as part of our working life, not among those who are parked outside it. It is a very bad answer to young people who are about to start their careers, that they do not get started on their working life because they have some challenges in life that they do not master. Then we have to spend that money on facilitating them to increase their mastering, so that they can get to work, become self-sufficient and contribute. I think that's one of the most important things all people in Norway know about — going to work every day and being able to support themselves. This is, in fact, a budget that is well adapted to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy in both the short and longer term. And also in terms of climate action, it takes both today's and tomorrow's challenges most seriously. It is one of the budgetary gains of the government's draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e557	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance report on the government's proposals for the state budget and on the national budget for 2020 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-07.ana.ud233e573	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
