ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e74	The representatives Hege Haukeland Liadal and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e91	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e107	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. In fact, we're number two in the world, according to the World Economic Forum. The difference between women and men is even smaller in 2018 than it was in 2017. We're moving in the right direction. Never has the proportion of women working part-time been smaller than today. There are 27,000 more female leaders now than it was under the previous majority. Differences between women’s and men’s average earnings have decreased from 2015 to 2018. Let me give you some examples. There is still a record low difference in employment between women and men. The number of part-time workers has decreased from 2013, from 40 pst. to 37 pst. Differences between men and women's average wages continue to decrease. Women's monthly wages are now 87,1 p.m. of men. In the state sector, 56 pst. by the leaders of women. We have an equal share with mother and father in the parental pension scheme and a part that parents can share. Of all children aged 1 to 5 years, 92 have pst. now place in kindergarten, which is an increase from 2017. Women are now a majority of graduates at universities and higher education institutions. The distribution of doctoral degrees is about 50/50. Suffering if there was a slight change this weekend, three out of four of the leaders of the government parties are women. The Supreme Justice is also a woman. We have female prime minister, female foreign minister, female finance minister. Yeah, well, the granddaughter's also a woman. In the legislative assembly, women are well represented – the proportion of women in the Stortinget is 40.8 pst, and the proportion in local government is 39 pst. Norway shows the way to work on gender equality. Equality pays off. It appears that the growth of employment of women from 1972 to 40 years in the future has played a crucial role in Norway's economic growth. The Institute for Social Research has investigated the situation if we had not had employment growth among women since 1972. Then mainland GDP would have totaled over 40 years would have been 3,300 billion. kr lower than it has actually been. In a report published in 2018, the OECD estimated that the increase in female participation has been up to 20 p.m. of GDP growth per capita in Norway over the last 40–50 years. It shows how central equality is for our welfare society. Working for equality is good policy. It's smart to do, and it's right to do, for individuals and for society. And better is always possible. Because we still have a sex-shared labour market. Girls and boys continue to take gender-traditional educational and vocational choices. There are too few women at the top of business. We have depressing figures showing that LHBTIQs and other minority groups are more exposed to hateful expressions than the rest of the population. For many women, violence from their partners is violent and serious. Women are particularly seriously exposed to negative social control, coercion, violence and abuse. It limits their ability to participate in society through education, work and voluntary engagement. These are problems that we have to solve. As Minister of Culture, I am concerned with democracy and education, because it is about empowerment of people, so that they can stand up for themselves. Equally, equality is not just a fundamental value in our society, but a pillar of a democratically sustainable society. Cultural policy is a policy of democracy, and equality is about the most fundamental thing in our democracy, namely human rights. Equality is not about everyone becoming equal, but about everyone having equal opportunities. Gender equality policies are also good business policies, and they are good social policies, they are good democracy in practice – and they build strong communities in our society. Our country's going through big shifts. We will take our share of the responsibility for addressing climate challenges and creating growth, green transformation and new jobs in an inclusive working life. Then we can't recruit from half the population. At Granavolden, the government agreed on a platform for a sustainable welfare society, where creativity and creativity are to unfold. The labour force in Norway is the main resource of society. It strengthens the basis for good welfare schemes and high living standards into the future. There are about as many employed women as men today. We look at the 20-64 age group, worked 82 pst. by men and 77 pst. by the women. The difference was record low in 2016, at 5 percentage points, and is just as low today. The proportion of immigrant women employed between the ages of 20 and 66 is much lower, only 62 pst. Here there are great differences by country of birth. The explanations on it are complex. But we are implementing an integration promise, so that immigrants are more involved in working and social life. It's important that they become part of big and small communities in our society. More women and men need to participate in working life to maintain our welfare society, and fewer have to work part-time. The perspective message indicates that there is a potential for increased employment for different groups. The government has therefore taken the initiative of including people with disabilities or gaps in the CV into regular jobs. The scope of inclusion is a cooperation between public and private actors to take place across different sectors. The social partners play an important role. In 2019, the inclusion effort has increased by a total of 125 million. kr. Already in 1868 Camilla Collett wrote: ‘Our country is not yet able to employ its daughters. Thousands of forces are not used for anything.» The gender balance of the Norwegian labour market remains significant. It's going too slowly. The gender-based labour market is a major cause of gender differences in wages, working hours, opportunities for development and careers. Women and men work in different parts of the labour market — in different professions, industries and sectors. They are also located differently in the job hierarchy. 85 pst. by workers in Norway work in a women’s or men’s dominated profession. The measures we are taking must be knowledge-based. I am pleased that the government is now betting on knowledge, for example. through CORE, which will continue to be one of the key environments for gender equality research in the labour market. But it's worth noting that Camilla Collett's words still sound, more than 150 years later. More people in full-time will contribute to ensuring the sustainability of our society. The Institute of Social Research has made estimates that if women had worked as much as men in 1972 and 40 years ahead, Norway would have been 2,300 billion. kr richer. Estimates in the Perspective Report show that if all women employed had worked full-time, the number of jobs done would have increased by about 8 pst. It's going in the right direction. More and more women are working full-time. There are increasing numbers of women today choosing higher education, and higher educated workers working full-time, also calling for an approach between women and men. But still work a whole 37 pst. part-time by employed women. We know that the number hides big differences in part-time by industry, and then the measures can be even more focused. For example, only 13 pst. of women in the state part-time in 2017. In the financial industry, the figure is even lower, which only works 11 pst. by women part-time, according to 2018 figures. In the municipal sector, on the other hand, every two women work part-time, and we look at municipal health and care services, there are about two out of three employees who are part-time employees – 65 pst. – according to figures as at 1 December 2018. Some believe that part-time is a phenomenon related to young children’s parents. It's completely wrong. 31 pst. of all mothers working part-time, against 37 pst. of all women combined. But one important element is that most women who work part-time want this working time. Only in the lower edge of 10 pst. of part-time workers working involuntarily. This is equal to 45,000 women. The government will work for a full-time culture in the world of work. In the Granavolden platform, we underline that we will work to fight against involuntary part-time. We're going to make sure that more people who want to work full-time can do it. We will maintain regular employment as a general rule in the Working Environment Act, and in recent years we have launched more projects to get it done. We must demand that all regional health businesses continue their work on developing a full-time culture and that as many employees as possible be added to permanent posts. This has produced results. Many families have a busy everyday life with work, home, children, school, leisure activities and volunteer work. Part-time choices can be a mastering strategy for dealing with a situation to which women otherwise see no alternative, especially in relation to the family situation. However, in order to strengthen the rights of those who work ‘involuntary part-time’ and who actually want and can work more, several changes have been made to the Working Environment Act in recent years. The agreement between the KS, the Trade Union, Delta and the Norwegian Nursing Association on the major full-time elections in 2018, in order to continue the work of reducing part-time work and developing a full-time culture, is an important step on that path. Several municipalities have decided that positions to be published as a starting point should be published as 100 % positions. Differences between men and women's average wages continue to decrease. Women earned 87.1 pst in 2018. of men’s wages and salaries when we include both full-time and part-time employees. But there is still too much gap, and the gender-divided labour market is an important explanation of that. It is about the differences in the participation of women and men in employment, the sector and sector relationship, education, work experience and competences. Women and men also work in industries with different levels of pay and contract coverage, and in different positions. There are also different forms of wage discrimination. Traditional economic characteristics such as education, experience, industry and occupation do not explain the whole pay gap. Men also have higher hourly earnings in narrowly defined groups. For example, women who work in the same profession, the same industry and sector, who have the same length of education, are as old and work as men, on average 93.5 pst. of a man's salary, according to figures from 2014. The government proposes to strengthen the obligation of activity and presentation and has promoted a proposition on it for the Storting. Wage discrimination is prohibited by law in Norway. In this proposal employers are, in particular, required to carry out a salary survey by gender. Surveying of earnings provides a basis for assessing the existence of pay differentials between women and men in comparable positions. The employer can then assess whether there is a risk of gender pay discrimination, which requires preventive action. Good guidance for the employer is important, and this enables everyone to do a good job of equal opportunities. We also propose that employers be given an obligation to monitor the use of voluntary part-time work. Employers must explain this. I believe that this strengthening will help prevent discrimination in the labour market and promote equality in important areas. Disunity can often be great about what kind of action is fair, fair and effective to promote equality. This may not be the case at least in the spring's discussion on the parental pension scheme. We have a red parental leave scheme in Norway that gives both parents valuable time with the child during the first years of life. Equality in employment is about equality between women and men, and we believe that a third is equal to women and men. It is not only about schemes, but also about attitudes. Dad's job is no more important than Mom's. We know that women more often than men choose what they perceive as more family-friendly professions in the public sector when they have children. We believe that when parents share care and absence from work more equally, we can expect changes in the pattern of working life. The government will maintain the current system of thirds of parental leave. We have had good cooperation with the social partners. In the Granavolden platform, the government says that we should facilitate the proper functioning of tripartite cooperation. I have recently met with the social partners. They are positive and all support a more equal distribution of the parental pension scheme. It is a matter of employers having similar expectations of the absence of female and male workers in relation to children. As I saw in the meeting, no complaints were received that the breast-feeding arrangements were not working. Breast-feeding gives mother the right to leave from work the time she needs to nurse her child. In the child’s first year of life, mother is entitled to maternity leave up to one hour per day. It is not just the employers’ organisations and employee organisations that support around the spring quota. 80 pst. of young children’s parents want a 10-week or more spring quota. The government believes that thirds of parental leave is important for equality, but it is also important for the child, and it is important for the possibility of being a parent. Gender-based education choices contribute to the maintenance of a gender-based labour market. Two thirds of the occupational division in Norway today is a direct consequence of women’s and men’s educational choices. This is reflected in the labour market and contributes to limiting both individual choices and labour market flexibility. It is therefore a major challenge for Norwegian equality that many girls and boys take gender-based educational and vocational choices. Women are now in the majority of higher education and have been there for a long time. They have increasingly opted for non-traditional education and have entered into formerly male-dominated and gender-balanced education. This applies, for example: medicine, law and science and technological education. In some real science, we now have a majority of female applicants. Unfortunately, we can't say that we've seen a similar change process in terms of men. This may be related to the fact that changed educational choices provide better pay and status for women than they do for men. It's under 15 pst. males admitted to the training of nurses for 2018. For kindergarten teachers, men represent only two out of ten. The same trend is seen in primary school teacher training for 1–7. steps. If we want a less gender-based labour market, we need to have more men in the health and social sector. In the Granavolden platform, we stress this problem. We show that we should stimulate more people to choose untraditional education and careers to contribute to a less gender-based working life, and say that we will strengthen the recruitment of men to kindergartens and to the teaching profession. The government plans to present a strategy that will contribute to a more equal education and labour market. We will base our work on the Ughidag Committee's investigation, such as: shall propose good measures to encourage young people to break traditional gender roles in the choice of education and occupation. We want to stimulate more people to choose untraditionally by making the norm-breaking initiatives that we are doing, for example. with ‘Women and technology’ and ‘Men in health’, nationwide. We're increasing support for girls and technology by 1 million. SEK, to 3.5 million. kr for 2019. This year was 29 pst. by applicants for higher education in the field of technology and real life. Since 2010, 1 562 men have been recruited through Men in health. In this year's budget, we've spent $2 million. to find out how to get more men to apply for primary school and kindergarten teacher training and health and care training. In cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture, we will put in place measures to improve gender balance in these programmes. We are recruiting several students for the teacher training for steps 1 to 7, in particular male students and students with a migrant background. But better is always possible. Hopefully, we'll get more male applicants for the vocational psychology study when we get one extra point for the initial testimonial rate. Previously, male applicants receive two additional credits for the nursing training at UiA and Lovisenberg diakonale hojskola. In order to understand what contributes to the promotion and inhibition of gender-based educational and professional choices, the Institute for Social Research has surveyed the research published in the last ten years, as well as actions that have been tried to contribute to change. Here I would like to point out an important experience from the report. There is a lack of systematic evaluations, as well as the follow-up of the actions taken. In February, the Stoltenberg Committee presented its report, New Opportunities — Better Learning, Gender Differences in School Performance. We are in the process of renewing all the subjects in the school and will present a big message on early efforts in the autumn of 2019. The report of the Stoltenberg Committee is important in this work. Among other things, we can ensure better special educational assistance and the question of more flexible school start-ups. Sickness if Norway is one of the world’s most equalised countries, there are still far fewer women than men at the top of Norwegian business. A competitive business must recruit good candidates from all over the population. Women in top management in business are about access to power, resources and decision-making positions. Gender mainstreaming and good role models are also expected to have an impact on educational choices and career choices for girls. In the 200 largest companies in Norway, only one in ten of the top leaders are women. In the top management groups of the same companies, the share is 22 pst. I look forward to launching a new CORE Top Leader Barometer for next year. Businesses have to take responsibility for recruiting top managers from all over the population, and there are many actors who raise these issues. That's great! #Woman spreader, SHEconomy, Fjong, ODA, SHE -- these are young women who make a difference and who want to make a change. To support this, the government, in cooperation with industry, has created a best practice list, ‘How to achieve a gender balance at the top of business’. This is distributed to the 500 largest Norwegian enterprises with advice and tips on important interventions to improve gender balance at the top. The government has set a total of 2 million. kr to measures aimed at increasing the proportion of female top managers in business. In cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we will take initiatives for more knowledge. The State sector may indicate an increase in the proportion of female leaders. From 2013 to 2017, the proportion increased from 46 pst. to 53 pst. Even when we break down posts in departments and directorates, the numbers are good. For example, the proportion of women who are top managers is 53 pst. at the directorate level. These figures are from 2018. This shows that the country's systematic work works. The Health Minister was able to increase the proportion of female hospital directors in a short time. He commissioned the hospital administrators to have a conscious attitude towards recruiting female top managers. This has produced results. In 2016, it was 10 pst. by the hospital directors who were women. Now the share is increased to 45 pst. I have great faith in this strategy. We have to take care of the sector to get the women's share up. The state has direct ownership of 74 companies, and the government is aiming to increase the proportion of female directors. It's given results. The average proportion of women among directors of the companies mentioned in the 2017 Staten Owners' Report was 45 pst. at the end of March 2018 against 36 p.m. in March 2014. But there is still a clear human dominance in the top management of the companies owned by the state. By the end of 2017, the share of women among executive directors was 24 pst. The average share of women in group and company managers was 37 pst. We expect all companies to work systematically with diversity in their own organisation. Improving women's entrepreneurship is a key element in increasing business equality. Women are under-represented in business as owners of businesses and entrepreneurs. The fact that fewer women start out as entrepreneurs means that society does not succeed enough in using the entire population to innovate, create values and create leaders. There is a high potential for the Norwegian economy to promote the creativity and position of women in business and as entrepreneurs. There are many who have good ideas in Norway. In 2017, well over 60,000 of these became new businesses. But in 2017 only three out of ten entrepreneurs were women. There should have been – and could be – a lot more. This is why the government has started work on an action plan for women's start-up. The action plan will look at how we can better organise current instruments to promote women's start-up, including in the health and social sector and in the public sector. Government parties have recently launched six points for better female health. Firstly, research on women’s health should continue to be a priority. We will further focus on better reproductive health and will extend the free prevention system for women up to 24 years of age. Cancer affects many women, and we want to replace today's cell test to detect cervical cancer with a simple HPV test. We put forward a strategy to combine care with work, a related strategy, and we want to raise international female health, among other things. through vaccination. We create new package courses for diseases that typically affect women, such as muscle and skeletal disorders, pain management and fatigue. We also need to prevent such suffering by affecting conditions that affect the diseases. This is covered by the public health communication submitted before Easter. We will build robustness in different phases of life. Young girls report more mental distress and are less physically active than boys. Older women are more often affected by hip fractures. We need a policy such as: explain and meet gender inequalities in health. We point this out in a new escalation plan for the mental health of children and young people, and also in an action plan for physical activity and a zero vision for accidents with serious injuries at home. We are also planning a summit on female health for the autumn. The government has been consulted on a change in the abortion law, where foetal reduction is now to be regulated in new provisions. Norway is one of Europe’s best countries in terms of policies and rights for LHBTIQs. The government's aim is to create an open, secure and diverse society. This is also the framework for the government's plan for skepticism. There is a little over a year left of the planned work, and a total of 70 out of 81 actions have been initiated or implemented. We have started a work on a comprehensive living conditions survey for skews in Norway. It is expected to be completed by 2020. Through the Granavolden platform, the government has re-committed its commitment to go ahead internationally in order to promote rights for sexual minorities. Already in May, Norway hosts the IDAHOT+ Forum 2019. The theme of this year's conference is knowledge status, challenges and the way forward. Norway, together with other countries, has promoted LHBTIQ under the UN Commission on Women this year. People with disabilities should have the same opportunity as everyone else to participate in society — on equal terms and without discriminatory barriers. For a disability to become a disability first when the gap between the personal assumptions and the demands of society becomes too big, and it's our job to reduce that gap. Our ambition is a more coherent and coordinated effort and a more effective implementation of government policy. In December 2018, the government launched the Strategy A Society for All, for Equal Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities. The strategy is to commit nine state councils. The effort shall be seen from a 10-year perspective, from 2020 to 2030. The government is now working on an action plan to build on the pillars of the strategy and give them content. The action plan shall present concrete measures to contribute to increased equality and democratic participation. We are also working on a big message about rights to people with developmental disabilities. Negative attitudes to and prejudices against different ethnic and religious minority groups and discrimination in different social arenas are well documented. Recent trends have also shown trends towards a tougher climate for debate. This is worrying and unacceptable. Racism and discrimination create fear and distrust and prevent inclusion. The government is developing and implementing a new national action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. We aim to launch it by the end of the year. We are also working to develop indicators for the discrimination and gender equality situation of ethnic minorities in Norway. We're going to have a society where freedom of expression is strong, and where the threshold for participation in the public debate is low. In the government's strategy against hateful opinions, we give priority to knowledge development, the judicial system, how the police function, what meeting places we have, the situation of children and young people, the media sector and the labour market. The Institute for Social Research has been awarded a mission to provide us with knowledge of the senders of hateful statements. It becomes an important work that can provide us with information on how hateful statements can be counteracted. It is important to support young people who are exposed to hateful expressions. Therefore, the government supports the "Stop hat talk" campaign. In December 2018, Norway met with the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination for a hearing. The Committee welcomes the government’s strategy against hateful expressions. Violence and assault on women is one of our greatest gender equality challenges. Efforts have been significantly strengthened in recent years, and a number of new instruments have been put in place by the police to safeguard and protect those at risk, while at the same time focusing heavily on both investigation and correction. We know that some women and children have to live in hiding for years, and that some of these are even being killed. In the autumn of 2018, the government dropped a sample to review partner killing cases. The committee shall assess several partner killing cases in the context and shall make recommendations in its investigation on better and more accurate prevention measures. The government has a high priority in the fight against violence and abuse. We are in the process of following up on different action plans. The initiative in the plan of escalation against violence and abuse in the current year totals about 1 billion. kr. In 2019, we will strengthen in particular the prevention of violence and abuse. It is important to focus efforts on young people. We have therefore developed educational materials on violence-related issues that are now ready for use in kindergartens and schools. This should also be translated into Sami. In 2019, we will also strengthen the provision of treatment to abusers and perpetrators, under the auspices of health care, family protection and Alternatives to violence. We have established an ATV offer in Finnmark with Sami competence, which should be prioritised. Strengthening treatment provision could help prevent future violence. The crisis centre offer is one of the most important relief measures we have for victims of violence. Sickness if many municipalities follow the crisis centre law in a good way, we know that the quality of the offer varies. Therefore, the government will now carry out an evaluation, following the transfer of responsibility for the crisis centres to the municipalities, and assess measures that can ensure a good crisis centre offer. Rape is a serious problem of equality. Women are most vulnerable, and rape is almost exclusively practiced by men. On 25 March, the government presented a new action plan against rape. The action plan will focus on targeted prevention efforts, a good provision of assistance after rape, good professional follow-up of offended persons, good research quality and more knowledge and competence. The anti-violence action plan shall contribute to ensuring a coherent and coordinated response in an area in which many sectors have their share of responsibility. We have also set up an action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation. Being subjected to negative social control, coercion, violence and abuse is a violation of the individual’s right to live a free life, a significant equality challenge, a persistent public health problem and a fundamental social problem. Those affected may suffer severe physical and mental distress, and more live with long-term pressures that may limit their ability to participate in society through education, work and voluntary engagement. Participation is important in order to experience locality and belonging to the community, and it contributes to building trust between social groups. Here we know that women are most vulnerable. On 8 March 2017, the Government presented the right to decide on their own life, an action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation. Work is further strengthened by new initiatives in Integration through knowledge, government integration strategy for 2019-2022. A 2015 study shows that Sami women are more exposed to violence than non-Samian women in the same area. At the same time, a comprehensive culture of abuse has been revealed in the municipality of Tysfjord. It is serious and a situation that the government takes in the highest seriousness, and its own resources have been allocated via the County of Northern Ireland to work specifically directed towards the Tysfjord community. However, the government will also set in motion cooperation with the Sameting to assess different measures to combat this violence. Metoo has been an alarm clock. Metoo has shown us that there is a need for both action and change of attitude. Sexual harassment is unacceptable and illegal. The extent of sexual harassment is shocking and alarming. Sexual harassment is a serious work environment problem – only this spring have we got numbers of sexual harassment in Defense, among the students at the University of Oslo and a number of testimonies from young girls' school days. In the autumn of 2018, the Defense conducted an investigation into bullying and sexual harassment. Both the Chief of Defense, the Minister of Defense and I have taken the results of the investigation very seriously. The study shows that both men and women in Defense experience bullying and sexual harassment. At the same time, we see that women are particularly vulnerable. The work on handling and preventing bullying and sexual harassment in the Defence must therefore also focus on attitudes towards women and women’s participation. The defence needs more women who can help shape culture and the working environment. The defense has an important job to do in order for unacceptable and illegal conditions to be made known, and that they are taken up. The defence has taken several measures. One of the first things they want to do is to review and revise existing legislation in order to clarify rules and bring them together in a single directive. The defence will also review and improve its warning system. It should be easy and safe to alert, and those who are leaders should know how to handle both the alert and the alert. An important measure will therefore be quality assurance of education and competence at all levels of the defence. Good tools are important in the fight against sexual harassment. The government will ensure effective enforcement of cases of sexual harassment and therefore establish a low threshold for dealing with sexual harassment. Discrimination subjects are now given authority to enforce sexual harassment and to impose retribution and compensation. We will also strengthen the guidance and assistance offered by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman because we want matters to be resolved at the lowest possible level. The work on sexual harassment is a high priority for this government, and the establishment of a low-threshold service is an important milestone in this work. The proposal to strengthen the obligation to provide information implies that all employers should seek to prevent harassment, sexual harassment and gender-based violence at work. Employers must document this. Women's rights and gender equality are a priority part of Norwegian foreign and development policy, both as a dedicated area of activity with its own resources and as a cross-cutting theme – as is also the case in the UN Sustainable Development Agenda 2030. The work on women's rights and equality has a broad impact field. On the one hand, it is about lifting women out of poverty and oppression, and on the other hand, about fulfilling the enormous potential of women to participate politically and economically in society in the same way as men. More than 40 years of Nordic cooperation in the field of gender equality have produced results. A new cooperation programme for gender equality entered into force on 1 January of this year, with a duration of four years. Based on Nordic cooperation, we will also contribute to the debate in Brussels on the development of the EU's gender equality policy. On the Norwegian side, the Action Plan on Freedom, Power and Opportunities, for 2016-2020, sets out the framework for the work of the EEAS on women’s rights and gender equality. Women's freedom, power and opportunities start with education. For this reason, in the last four years, the government has more than doubled support for education in development. The education of girls is a major priority in this effort. Some of the most common reasons for girls leaving school are child marriage, early pregnancy and gender-based violence. Every day, about 33,000 girls under the age of 18 get married away. We will step up efforts against such harmful practices and now develop a new strategy for our international work against child and coercion marriages, gender mutilation and gender selection. The right of girls and women to determine their own bodies and their own lives is essential to achieving equality. ‘SheDecides’ is an initiative aimed at this end. I am proud to perform the role of Norway’s ‘SheDecides Champion’. The government has increased its efforts for access to prevention and for sexual and reproductive health — from the already high level of 1.19 billion. SEK in 2016 – with 700 million. kr over four years, in 2017-2020. Overall, this contributes to better health care for women and to the death of fewer women at birth and of unsafe abortions. Norway’s fourth action plan for women, peace and security was launched in January of this year, lasting until 2023. Norway shall work to ensure women’s and girls’ security and rights in war and conflict and strengthen women’s influence in conflict management and peace processes. The main theme of the year for the UN Commission on Women was social protection, access to public services and sustainable infrastructure for gender equality. Both the Development Minister and I prioritised participating in the Women's Commission. On the part of Norway, human rights defenders working for women's rights and gender equality were particularly promoted, along with sexual and reproductive health and rights, where we experience increased international pressure. I believe that there is every reason to be satisfied with the efforts in the gender equality field. The review shows a good development for equality between women and men. As I said, we still have a record difference in employment. The share of part-time workers goes down. Differences between male and female average pay are decreasing. In the state sector now is 56 pst. by the leaders of women. We have an equal share of the distribution between mother and father in the parental pension scheme and one part that parents can share. We know that even more children go to kindergarten. We know that an even greater majority of graduates at universities and colleges are women. We know that three of the four government parties are led by women, and that the Supreme Justice and the Grand President are women. But this is still an area where major challenges remain. Now we've made some long-term plans that will make sure that we get pulled on to make a positive progress towards the egalitarian society I think all of us want. We're pretty good, but better is always possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e368	The President will propose that the statement be examined at a later meeting of the Grand Duchy. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e384	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to eight rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e394	It's nothing less than the largest hospital project in Norway over the times we're debating today. These are several projects in the capital area with a cost framework of nearly 60 billion. kr, extending until 2035. The concentration of the building mass at the OUS to Gaustad and Aker and the closure of the operation at Ullevål Hospital have been subject to significant interest, criticism and actions. The economic sustainability of this project, which also affects several other expansion and maintenance projects in Health South-East, is the main background of the present proposal for a representative to investigate the possibilities of the Ullevål as far as the health south-east is concerned. In addition, the proposers believe that the project has been subject to a low-reliance process, that there is a lack of professional anchoring among employees, and that the future capacity needs of the capital region are insufficiently addressed. There is also an immediate need for the construction of a new Aker local hospital, another point to which an overall committee appears to be able to join. The Committee's consideration of this matter has been thorough, with great commitment, and an oral hearing was held in Stortinget on 5 March. A consistently good cooperation climate in the Committee has also been expressed in this case – I thank you – although it is probably not the last time this climate will be put to the test in this case. The Government Parties, i.e. the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee, do not support the proposal of the Central Party, Red and SV. The main reason for this is that Health South-East has decided that Ullevål should be illuminated – as it is called – as an alternative to Gaustad. In the view of the majority, it would be disrespectful to the professional investigation competence of the regional health undertaking not to await such an assessment until the conclusion of a case by Stortinget on a more comprehensive investigation of Ullevål. It is announced that the alternative study will be available before summer. In this context, it is worth pointing out that a few constitutional issues are linked to the treatment of the future hospital structure in the Oslo region by the Storting. According to the Health Business Act, Health South-East is, as the Committee is well known, in consultation with Oslo University Hospital, which is responsible for planning, organising, managing and coordinating the new development. Then it is up to the Minister of Health to approve these plans. Nevertheless, in the opinion of the rapporteur, there is reason to point out the relationship between the executive and the controlling power, i.e. the Storting, in a project of such magnitude as we are facing here. The purpose of the control function of the Storting is not only to ensure democratic transparency and influence in areas where the government under the Basic Law has been given direct competence; the purpose is also to ensure an adequate basis for decision-making, to detect errors and shortcomings, to cultivate a good administrative culture, to reduce resource depletion and to provide transparency in public decision-making processes. The control system creates legitimacy, or acceptance, in the population. In order to refer to the government attorney's comprehensive doctoral thesis on the control function: As a grant authority, Stortinget has a special call to control the government's resource use, not least in view of next year's budget. Thus, control is not just a matter of monitoring in retrospect, but also a question of proactive action to ensure that the basis for decision-making is sufficient. I remind you in this connection that the loan application has already been sent to the government. A large majority of the Committee is of the opinion that, as of today, Stortinget does not have enough information to press the start button of a Gaustad/Aker project. To quote the representative Michael Tetzschner in today's business today: ‘For the time being, I have not seen anything that suggests that Gaustad should be preferred.’ There is a risk related to the OUS project, not only to the economy but also to environmental and protection aspects, to the income base of the function of the non-profit hospitals in the project, to the burden to be borne by the Municipality of Oslo on the transfer of patients, to the sales income of the disposal of the Ullevål property and to the realisation of other major hospital projects in Health South-East in the event of a financial breakdown of the OUS project. This risk is exacerbated when a professional environment of doctors, psychologists and nurses almost unanimously rejects the existing plans. I'm going to elaborate on this risk, with particular emphasis on Left's principal position in this matter, in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e423	When you live in Oslo and Akershus, it is easy to take the hospital offer for granted. There are short distances between hospitals, and I think most people experience the hospital offer as close and safe. It's not the distance from the hospital that's the challenge in the capital area, as people can experience it elsewhere in the country. But we have a big challenge with local hospital capacity. For us in the Workers' Party, therefore, the main priority is that Aker Hospital will be in place as soon as possible. As a representative of Akershus County, I have to say clearly from now on: Akershus needs Ahus himself. The capacity here is already detonated. Akershus has the strongest population growth in the whole country, and therefore it is important that the population of Groruddal is transferred to new Aker as soon as possible. As the Workers' Party sees it, there is no room for delays in this project. We believe that Aker must be given priority if parallel development becomes difficult to implement. On the part of the Municipality of Oslo, the transfer of the Groruddal population is primarily about two things: capacity and interaction. In Oslo, cities cooperate across health services. That is why it is so important for the municipality of Oslo that the entire population of the frogs are transferred together and at the same time to the Aker hospital. Municipalities and urban areas are both the first line and the third line in a patient’s course. Hospital stays need to be seen in the context of the entire healthcare we are going to build up around patients. The health enterprise and the municipality must play each other well. The working party is concerned about the chronic underfunding of our hospitals. We're standing by our election vow in 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals during this period. The budget of the working party, with a better hospital framework and lower equity requirements, will facilitate both operations and investments. It's about good patient treatment for sick people, and it's about having enough money for competent employees, for drugs and other treatments, and for medical devices and good treatment buildings. Regional health enterprises are facing large construction investments in the coming years and represent a significantly higher proportion of hospital budgets than in the previous year. Benchmarks for improving the efficiency of the economic long-term plans of the respective undertakings have been introduced. Whether or not the plans will be implemented will include: depending on the level of funding and the degree to which health care providers are able to improve the efficiency of their operations without compromising patient treatment. The working party is concerned that the total cost of the construction projects in the capital, combined with the government's tight hospital frameworks, will distort other planned and necessary construction projects in Health South-East. We are concerned that the progress of the main hospital in the interior and other important construction projects at Drammen, Aarhus, Kalnes, Skien and Sørlanden hospitals is not delayed as a result of the large investment in the OUS. As in all other parts of the country, we want the best possible and best possible hospital capacity for the money we invest. When the Ullevål option is now to be illuminated as an alternative to Gaustad, the Workers' Party assumes that all options related to land selection and area can be explained. The decision must be firmly anchored and enforceable. For the Workers' Party, location on either Gaustad or Ullevål is subordinated to capacity and competence, but it is assumed that the option given the agreement of the Council of State and Health of the South-East through the Enterprise Meeting is well-founded and economically sustainable and has room for necessary capacity increase. Finally, I would like to focus on several different consultation approaches from the professional community with concern about whether the quality of the Oslo hospitals will be good enough. This applies in particular to the recording of the provision of birth and maternity services, the offer of sick and newborn premature infants, the work of the trauma team and the organisation of cancer treatment – recordings that need to be taken with the greatest seriousness. The Health Minister, the board and the management of Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital must see it as their greatest task to restore confidence in the process and ensure that the way forward is well anchored with broad support. With that, I address the proposal that the Workers' Party has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e444	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e449	Health South-East government asked in January that Ullevål be illuminated as an alternative location to Gaustad, with the same activity content. We are awaiting this information, as the rapporteur was about to say. Oslo University Hospital shall further look at planned activity content and operational concepts for both Aker and a comprehensive regional hospital, then located on Gaustad or Ullevål, before the start of a pre-project. Special attention shall be paid to the subject areas of trauma and emergency medicine, birth aid, neonatal medicine and cancer. The districts Grorud, Stovner and Alna will have the new hospital in Aker as their local hospital. What matters in all restructuring in the health sector is that patients should receive the best possible services in the future. It is therefore important to identify the location and organisation that provides it. Health South-East has stated in the draft report that it has made use of the means to manage the financial risk of the project. If the OYS were unable to manage the financial risk of the project, it would be detrimental to the hospital operations. It is therefore essential that health south-east reduces the risk. But it should be a little bit to go on – within somatic areas, Haukeland operates a university hospital of 20 pst. more reasonable than OUS. This will be the country's largest hospital building and will include, inter alia: be financed through an improvement in the efficiency of the OYS. It is positive that the government announced before the weekend that the conditions for borrowing for projects like this will be improved, which may facilitate liquidity up to 0.5 billion. kr annually in the case of projects of this size. Health enterprises must include non-profit actors as equivalent partners in their planning and development work, and Health South-East must make visible how the non-profit hospitals are to be integrated into a new structure towards the treatment of the loan request. The ideals must be strengthened, not weakened, and the capacity of the ideal hospitals must be exploited to a greater extent than at present. New hospital buildings are needed in Oslo. Many of the buildings on Ullevål are old, inappropriate and in very poor technical condition. It's time to move on from planning to construction. It is important that the capital of Norway has modern and future-oriented hospital buildings. Oslo has today among Norway's worst hospital buildings, and it is time we started building new ones. At first the criticism was that there was too little capacity. Now the capacity of the project is increased, and one criticises that there is too high a cost. Oslo deserves hospitals with higher quality and better capacity. Driving hospitals at today's Ullevål is like running hospitals in a museum. For the red-green government was not even the national gallery well enough as a museum. It is therefore striking that representatives from the Centre Party and SV believe similar buildings are good enough for patients. Constant rematches delay the construction of modern hospitals in Oslo. It will affect the inhabitants of Oslo, not least those who live in the Groruddalen. There will always be many stakeholders in such a large scale development which also involves changes to the organisation. The important thing for us is to facilitate the delivery of the offer with good quality and capacity in the future. Since its establishment in 2009, Oslo University Hospital has been exploring different building alternatives. Today, large parts of hospital operations in old buildings are of poor quality. There is a need to combine professional environments that today have similar activity in Gaustad and Ullevål. An extension of the Ullevål property was assessed in both 2012 and 2016, but was not included. So now it has to be re-examined in line with the Health South-East decision. Gaustad has 220,000 m 2 of buildings that can be further used, but as an alternative it has to be replaced and built on Ullevål – as well as upgrading the old and worn-out Ullevål premises. In the Ullevål option, a sales income from Ullevål is also lost. Ullevål has only 110 000 m 2 of building that can be used further, and these are planned to be used until phase 2 is completed. Now we get this up again in the form of the lighting that has been ordered. Good and equivalent health services are to be provided to citizens throughout the country. In order to achieve this, it is particularly important that Oslo University Hospital ensure optimal use and coordination of its health professionals and, in particular, a good use of specialised health professionals, which we need in other parts of the country too. The most important thing for patients is not where a new hospital in Oslo is located, but how patients are met by healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e478	The new hospital structure at Oslo University Hospital does not only concern the inhabitants of Oslo. This is one of the most expensive hospital facilities in Norwegian history. The business model allows poor financial management in this project to affect the services of all citizens of Health South-East. 2.9 million inhabitants, or more than half the population of Norway, can be adversely affected by this project if funding is not realistic. The government's approach to enabling healthcare companies to extend the amortisation period of investments will release more money for patient treatment and reduce the need for savings to realise the construction of up to 500 million. in the first few years. The progress party has one focus: good patient treatment. Red, Senterpart and SV are trying to get this to be a matter of plotting alone. It's getting too snowy. For the Progress Party, it is important to choose the option that provides the best patient treatment, ensures the best possible emergency functions, is the most economical, and makes you think about the long-term needs of Oslo’s citizens for hospital services. We have been and are still critical of the process in this matter. Health companies are quite independent, but it is still the Storting that grants the money in this country. The Progress Party will not support a loan application until we believe that good judgements have been made on both Gaustad and Ullevål, and we should be assured that we are making reasonable choices. Many have probably viewed the granting of loan applications by health businesses as a formality. I can guarantee that the Group of the Party of European Socialists does not regard this as a formality. The progress party is going to vote no to borrow money for a hospital project in Oslo if we are not sure that everything is safe, and that you choose the right solution. There is reason for scepticism when you look at previous projects in the Oslo area. There was a warning against shutting down Aker Hospital — that would give rise to challenges. It was warned that Aarhus had too little capacity when several of the Groruddal districts were to be moved there, and it was warned that the hospital in Kalnes in Østfold was built too little. Everything worked out. Then there is also reason to show healthy scepticism about the planning and capacity of this project. For this reason, the Progress Party has asked a number of critical questions in this process and will continue to be critical until we feel fully confident that the process is under control and that the solutions chosen lead to a better provision of health for the population within a sound framework. We've been worried that Health South-East will fund the entire project through efficiency improvements of a total of 2.1 billion. kr. The Progress Party also believes that the health company should take into account that the project has received massive criticism from all teams, including hospital staff and trade unions in Oslo, and we are also concerned about regulation, emptying challenges, emergency functions and the emergency environment. Furthermore, it is important for the Progress Party that the ideal hospitals of Diakonhjemmet and Lovisenberg are given a greater role in the new hospital structure. In other words, this is about far more than empty choices. The Progress Party agrees that there are major challenges to Gaustad, but there are also problems with the Ullevål option. At present, no one has enough information to conclude with which option best addresses our concerns. When the Ullevål option is illuminated, we will hopefully have a knowledge base that will allow us to decide on any loan request. Although the health company formally takes the decision, as the country's top elected body, we have overall responsibility for the country's hospital. The Progress Party expects the lighting of the Ullevål option to be thorough and sees no need now to postpone a process that is extremely important to the entire population of Oslo. It is the responsibility of Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital to do a thorough job of lighting Ullevål as a real alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e497	There is a great need to invest in public hospitals in the Oslo area. In June 2016, Health Minister Höie adopted the future target for Oslo University Hospital, OYS, in the Business Meeting, and it was decided that OYS would be expanded on Gaustad and Aker, while Ullevål would be shut down. The process up to this decision in the Business Meeting has been highly critical, and it is actually a matter of its own. I want to refer to the comments from the Center Party and SV in the Settings dialog. In our view, what has happened is a violation of the state’s own guidelines for the early phase planning of hospital construction projects – it does not have confidence. The Board of Health South-East approved on 31 January 2019 the draft report for the project at Gaustad and Aker, while requesting further clarifications. Among other things, Ullevål should be illuminated as an alternative location to Gaustad, but it is unclear what it means to illuminate, and no action plan has been developed until these decisions have been taken. The plan for the collection of Gaustad has been met with very strong criticism, and the largest health professionals at Oslo University Hospitals, such as the Legeforeningen, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Association of Psychologists and the Norwegian Association of midwives, are strongly critical of the adopted closure of Ullevål Hospitals for extension on Gaustad. It is precisely the division of the professional environment on Ullevål that according to several disciplines will have consequences that go beyond the patient supply, especially this is highlighted for the areas of neonatal medicine and trauma treatment. In addition to the major professional objections to the Gaustad project, there are other objections due to inappropriate land conditions and high risk of regulation: scarce land resources, steep terrain, peaceful building mass, cultural memory, etc. Unlike Gaustad, Ullevål Hospital has a large area for development that has been regulated to the Sickness Area. Ullevål also has over 100,000 m2 of hospital buildings that are either newly built or newly renovated. Health Minister Höie's plans also do not respond to capacity needs. According to the concept report from Health South-Aust, only one of four parts of the Groruddalen, the city of Alna, will be transferred to Aker, but not until 2029. At the Governing Board meeting in January 2019, it was just enough decided that it should be possible for all four parts of the Groruddalen to belong to Aker Hospital – but to facilitate, there is no real obligation in it. The plans have great economic uncertainty and are not economically viable. It will be able to go beyond patient provision in Oslo and have consequences for the economy and investment also in the rest of Health South-East. It shall be more efficient in operation in Oslo University Hospitals for several hundred million dollars a year to build up equity, and it is planned for a profit realization of approximately one year. 2 billion. kr after the construction has been completed. All the experience with other hospital buildings shows that this is unrealistic – just look at More and Romesdal. An independent group of experts, consisting of people with a long experience in hospital planning, hospital development and public project management, has recently presented an idea sketch for an extension on Ullevål, which one thinks this could cost 20 billion. kr less than the extension currently in place by Health South-East. Several parties have said that this is Norway's largest and most expensive hospital project ever. Then it is very incomprehensible that Stortinget should not decide on this project until a loan application arrives. Michael Tetzschner said to DN today: ‘We need an equivalent and full investigation of the Ullevål option before the Storting can take a stand for a loan request from Health South East.’ When representatives from all government parties go out and say that they do not support the Gaustad project, but that they need a better basis for decision, it is incomprehensible to the Center Party that a non-participating party can support a cautious proposal to require the distribution of Ullevål. With that, I will deal with the proposal that the Central Party has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e526	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e531	Maybe we'll take the debate on the health business model right away, for once again we're seeing an alarmingly unbridled process. Maybe we'll look at how little support this project has for the professional community and for the employees, or maybe we'll continue the debate on the food supply where we ended last. This time it's not about District Norway or the very long distances, but about reducing food supply and increasing the risk of transport births in the capital area, even if you could have avoided it. This project is a costly development, is poorly justified on health, is not supported by the professional community and employees and does not address the need for capacity in the Oslo area. It is not surprising that professionals think the process has been unyielding and untrustworthy. The current Executive Director has abandoned the recommendations in the spatial development plan adopted in 2011. It recommended continued operation on Ullevål, the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital for economic, traffic and planning reasons. But the current director launched a whole new idea for hospital structure. Not even this structure went according to plan, as Campus Oslo proved not to be feasible, following objections from the State Road Administration. Then another idea was given to hospital structures. For me, it seems predetermined and neither superficial nor professionally anchored. The largest health settings at Oslo University Hospital, represented at the Legeforeningen, Norsk Nursing Association, Trade Union, Norwegian Psychologists' Association and Norwegian Earthworms' Association, are strongly critical of the adopted closure of Ullevål Hospital for extension at Gaustad. According to several disciplines, the planned fragmentation of the academic environment at Ullevål will have serious consequences, which go beyond the patient offer at Oslo University Hospital. According to the trade union community, there is a great likelihood that the acute and trauma environment will deteriorate. SV shares this concern. This is a professional community with a high level of recognition beyond the borders of Norway. We also share the concern of the newborn medical profession at Oslo University Hospital, which warns that the plans will offer a worse supply of neonatal medicine than they do today. This professional community points to the risk of increased number of transport births. Transport is associated with the risk of the newborn, and we could have easily avoided it in the Oslo area. It is unfortunate to adopt a hospital structure that weakens today's offer to seriously ill newborns. As a representative of Akershus, I would also like to point out that the existing plans from Health South-East do not meet the major capacity needs of Oslo and Akershus. The population in Groruddalen today has as its primary hospital Akershu University Hospital, which has already detonated capacity. Ahus was dimensioned for a range of 350,000 inhabitants. This recording area has now passed 500,000. Because of the lack of capacity at Aarhus, many of their patients are sent to the Diakon home Hospital – and some to Kongsvinger Hospital. This is unfortunate for the population of both Oslo and Akershus. That is why we must give Ahus priority. There is a great need to invest in public hospitals in the Oslo area. It is such an important question that there is no doubt that the general principles must be addressed in the Storting. That is why we are in favour of the proposals. Despite the fact that this process has been inexorable, at the end I would like to thank the case rapporteur here for an orderly process in dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e548	In matters such as this and in all restructurings in the health sector, it must be borne in mind that patients should receive the best possible services that must be based on them in the future. In this case and in all other cases, it is important to find out the location and organisation that just provides it. Now it is the case in this case that the board of Health South-East at its board meeting on 31 January of this year, based on the explanation of vote from the elected representatives when the draft report was discussed in the management group of this project, asked Ullevål to be illuminated as an alternative location to Gaustad, but with the same activity content. I have a expectation that this will be thoroughly illuminated and that the information we will then receive is exciting. The board of Health South-East has also asked Oslo University Hospital to illuminate further planned activity content and the operational concept for both Aker and a total regional hospital on either Gaustad or Ullevål prior to the start of the project. Special attention will then be paid to the subject areas of trauma and emergency medicine, birth aid, neonatal medicine and cancer. I just want to stress that we're not saying Gaustad, but we're saying Gaustad or Ullevål. That is to say, the Committee has not taken a decision as to whether it should be either here or there. As regards the economy in this respect, concerns have been raised as to whether the economic risk has been acceptable. This will be the country's largest hospital extension and will include, inter alia: is financed through an improvement in the efficiency of the Oslo University Hospital of about 800 million. kr for a 10-year period until the buildings are completed, and further efficiencies of approx. Bn. 1,3 kr for a period after and after the entry into service of the new buildings. There has been considerable uncertainty about realism in such an efficiency plan of this magnitude. The government has now announced a new loan for Hospital Building, which includes: the amortisation period is set from 25 years to 35 years. This will probably help mitigate the risk of this project, but this will still be something we need to follow closely. I would also like to stress what has been said earlier, that other projects in the Health South-East region cannot be harmed or delayed due to the processes that are going to take place here in Oslo. Then, too, the regulatory risk of this project is high, and the Riksantikvaren has given advance notice of objections. Then I'll draw attention to the Granavolden platform. It is said that the share of the overall health and care sector organised and run by non-profit institutions serving households will be increased. This will be achieved by the government in terms of targets in the State budget for 2020. It is such that health businesses should include non-profit actors as equivalent partners in their planning and development work. I am pleased that the majority of the committee believes that health south-east towards the treatment of the loan request must make visible how the ideal hospitals should be integrated into a new structure. Today, the Diakon home Hospital Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital are local hospitals for a total of six urban areas within a number of disease areas. Lovisenberg also has partial responsibility for a fourth part of the city. I have a clear expectation that Health South-East will follow up the government's ambition that the responsibilities of the ideal hospitals will be extended, and we know that both the Diakon home and Lovisenberg are ready. This is important in the concrete process of ensuring the correct dimensioning of new public hospitals in Oslo, where we also know that there is expected large population growth. Now it is the case that Health South-East has adopted an explanation of all these conditions by June of this year, and the concerns raised in this matter, of course, they have a responsibility to answer. Of course, it must be that the factual basis must be good enough before the loan application is dealt with here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e566	When performance becomes more important than the provision of health to the population, we elected people must make sure that patients go ahead. That is why we, together with the Centre Party and SV, promoted proposals to ensure safe hospitals in front of expensive performance projects. An overall occupational environment strongly warns against health south-east of its plans to shut down Ullevål Hospital, because it will pose a risk to the health of the population. We should be glad that professionals take responsibility when the directors and the government fail. On Ullevål they have a complete emergency medical environment gathered under one roof. Last year, more than 30 000 acute patients were treated, of whom 2 000 were trauma patients. They have the readiness we depend entirely on if many are seriously injured after accidents or terror. When disasters occur, specialists from all disciplines must be immediately available in the same place to secure and conserve life and health, and so is Ullevål. But the hospital plans in Oslo involve splitting this hospital into two. Such fragmentation of emergency medical disciplines deprives professionals of the possibility of seamless cooperation in the event of major accidents. That's why the trade unions warn against the plans. No risk assessment has even been carried out as to what such fragmentation would mean for the preparedness. Therefore, these plans are irresponsible and pose a health risk to the population. Today, the majority can be assured to investigate the Ullevål option. It's not too late to turn for any games. I see Michael Tetzschner in DN argues to investigate the Ullevål option. I would ask him and others of the members of the government to follow up the words of action and vote in favour of our proposal. The Labour Party in Oslo has been involved in the investigation of Ullevål, but at Stortinget, the Workers' Party and Støre unfortunately act as Bent Höie's support wheel. It should be noticed by the voters. The same applies to the Progress Party. Today, Sylvi Listhaug says that we are most concerned with plots, not patient offers. It's, with respect to reporting, just nonsense. Our proposal is to stop a devastating closure of Ullevål hospitals that are to the detriment of emergency patients, for those who are to give birth, and also for cancer treatment in our region. The progress party chooses to protest for all the world, but unfortunately follow the path. The health bureaucrats claim that their plan will save 2 billion. kr annually, but has no facts to support this. On the other hand, an independent trade union has produced a report that shows that the option of first building a new local hospital on Aker and then gradually expanding Ullevål could cost 20 billion. kr less. The responsible person is to have this properly investigated as an alternative to the plans for Health South-East. In addition, the bourgeois parties are failing the population of the Groruddalen. They have been throwing balls in health care for many years after the closure of Aker hospitals and can be there for 20 years because the plans of Health South-East involve the dismantling of Ullevål, emptying it gradually, and letting Aker receive three districts that today have Ullevål as its local hospital, namely Nordstrand, Østensjö and Søndre Nordstrand. This means that we can't see the Groruddalen coming back together to Aker, which has been a claim from all the parties in Oslo for years. About this, the Workers' Party says no things of the world. Here they do the ostrich, stick their heads in the sand, and say nothing about the fact that the Gaustad plan will destroy to get the Grorud Valley back together to Aker. It's time for this to happen. That's what people in the Grorud Valley deserve. That is why I recommend with this the proposals that Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e583	The President would point out that referring to the argument of others as ‘only customs’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e588	I am, like the representatives of the Health and Care Committee, concerned that good and equivalent healthcare should be provided to the citizens of the whole country. In order to achieve this, it is particularly important that Oslo University Hospital ensures the best possible use of the competence and health professionals in the region, and in particular the good use of specialised health professionals, which we need in other parts of the country as well. Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East have been working on the plans for the development of Oslo University Hospital in the future for a number of years. As early as 2016, I concluded that I agreed with the plans for a comprehensive and complete regional hospital, including the local hospital functions at Gaustad, a local hospital in Aker and the further development of a specialised cancer hospital at the Radium Hospital. This was important to establish already then, because Oslo University Hospital spends very large amounts each year on maintenance and investment, and it is important to establish a direction for further development and further investigations. Now we are in a situation where the construction of the new clinic building at the Radium Hospital is fortunately already under way. I have noticed that several environments have now arranged for Ullevål Hospital to be the place where the new regional hospital will be assembled. Of course, this is possible, but some of the background to the fact that this was not the conclusion in 2016 was that we saw it as unmistakable not to use the buildings on the Rikshospital at Gaustad for a long time in the future, and that it was in total at Gaustad there was the most new building mass. The establishment of a new large local hospital in Aker will have to take place gradually, with the gradual transfer of patients from Aarhus and Ullevål personnel. At the same time, I am concerned that Lovisenberg and the Diakon home will be given greater responsibility in the future, in line with the plans that Health South-East also has. There are no more hospitals in themselves we need in Oslo. On the other hand, there are several good, functional hospital buildings that both patients, employees and relatives need. It is on Ullevål building mass that has been judged to be the worst, and it will be most demanding to upgrade it. Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East has therefore considered it most appropriate for further development to take place in Gaustad and in new Aker Hospital. The Board of Health South-East adopted this when examining the draft report. Employees’ elected representatives on the board of directors considered that there were still unresolved issues that required that alternative location and implementation risk should also be considered and that Ullevål should also be illuminated as an alternative location to Gaustad, but with the same activity content. This will be at the board meeting in June. I will base any additional information here on my further assessment of the case. Then the government will come back to this matter, of course, in connection with the state budget for 2020. A number of the questions raised in the debate will be answered in the current work. And some of the questions raised in the debate have already been answered well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e611	On 8 April, the Oslo Medical Association invited the launch of a report on an alternative to the development of Gaustad and Aker. The alternative is referred to as the ‘Parking Hospital Ullevål’ and it is noted that it will be realized faster and 20 billion. kr cheaper than the Aker-Gaustad option. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State deal with these calculations and other information, in view of the fact that Ullevål is now to be illuminated as an alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e616	Health South-East was present at that launch, and they have said very clearly that they will go into that report and look at the information that emerges there, as part of the work being done towards the Board meeting in June. But it is also worth noting that the model proposed there is not a single regional hospital on Ullevål. So then you go away from what is absolutely essential in this case, namely that we get a total regional hospital for Health South-East, and that in the future patients should not experience that the regional hospital functions in Health South-East are divided into two sites, with the negative consequences it has for patients – but also the negative consequences it has for the health service in the rest of Norway, because it requires a higher staff with highly specialised competence that is lacking in the rest of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e621	In the setting, the Workers' Party expresses concern that the total cost of the construction projects in the capital – combined with the government's tight budgetary framework, I have to be allowed to add – could distort other planned and necessary construction projects in the Health South-East impact field, including the plans for a Mjøssykehus. This concern is raised by more people. We heard that the chairman of the committee, Mr Becquerad, was also in the same room. We in the Workers' Party are very concerned that we should have modern, good and functional hospitals in Oslo, which also serve the whole country in many contexts, but we are also very concerned that we should have more efficient operations and better patient treatment elsewhere. So it's about investing right. Can the Council of State ensure that there will be no delays as a result of what is going to happen in here?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e633	I perceive that it is precisely the quality assurance of the project that is now being carried out under the direction of Health South-East. But I want to add that Health South-East has an investment plan, a plan for its investments in the future. They have built up liquidity to manage the plans they have. This project has an economic sustainability, both individually and as a whole, both for Oslo University Hospital and for Health South-East. I hear that there are some numbers in the air here related to economics, but for example. what Oslo University Hospital needs to streamline until the new hospital is completed is 450 million. kr, i.e. Forty-five million. kr annually in a budget of 24 billion. kr. I do not think that is insurmountable. In addition, the positive effect of a new build on the Radium Hospital should be taken out. That's what you want to save in front of the new building.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e638	Can the Council of State try to say something more about how the choice of model here in the capital could affect what was the essence of my question — what will happen to the investment in relation to the plans otherwise put in Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e643	What is important is that in the model we are now working on in Health South-East, this with plot options – whether the total regional hospital is to be located on Gaustad or Ullevål – will be further illuminated towards the board meeting in June, and that will be of great importance to the rest of Health South-East. Not least, the key question of having a comprehensive regional hospital will have a major impact on the rest of the hospitals in Health South-East in terms of competence. These are skills that are scarce in Norway, and if you don't get together the regional hospitals in Oslo, it creates challenges for the large new hospital to be built on the Inland, for the development of Sørlande Hospital, Aarhus and the Hospital Østfold. Many of the functions that had previously been assigned to the major hospitals now have in the major hospitals regionally. If you don't get together the regional hospital function in Oslo, it would threaten such a model, and that would mean that more patients from the rest of Health South-East have to travel to Oslo in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e649	Despite the fact that the Minister of Health has repeatedly defended the Gaustad project from Stortinget's spokesman, representatives from all government parties have expressed themselves critical of the project. Several people even believe that they will vote against the Health South-East loan commitment on the basis of the plans that are in place today. This means that it is highly uncertain whether the Minister of Health has multiple building plans that he wants. From this I would like to ask whether the Minister of Health does not see the value of a thorough distribution of Ullevål – not just a lighting – in order to avoid delays if his own government partners agree to the loan application for the Gaustad project that the Council of State wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e655	I assume that the answers given in advance of the board meeting to be in Health South-East in June, regarding the choice of plot options, will be thorough and good answers. I think it is very strange that even now, before that work is done, you conclude that it is not a thorough enough investigation. It would mean that those who are critical of this have already revealed that they are not really concerned about getting answers to their questions, because no matter what answers come, you would say that you don't accept them. I believe that there is reason to wait for those answers, and if you have any further questions after the answers have been given, it is probably possible to get an answer to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e660	I have never experienced the husband's proceedings and the conduct of a State Council as in this case. State Council Höie decided on hospital investments in Oslo already at the corporate meeting on 24 June 2016 – perhaps 50 billion. kr, to strong professional and public resistance and without the existence of a business plan for what Höie has done. It's totally unreal. Then, to get away from it, new concepts such as ‘target image’ and ‘illumination’ are used, concepts that are not found in the guide that we in the Stortinget have assumed to be used for such large hospital investments. That it may be possible to carry out such a process, which has such an impact on the hospital offer in Oslo, but also in the whole south-east! My question is: is the Council satisfied with the way it has progressed, and is it in line with the supervisor for hospital investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e665	Yes, this work has gone on as one also plans and has planned the other hospital expansions in Norway. This means that at that time in 2016, when a selected target image for what was to be further investigated, it was based on significant work that had been done in advance. The government will decide on this in connection with the treatment of the loan request. Then, of course, we have to assess whether all the necessary questions that a person needs to answer when processing the loan request have been answered. But it's e.g. not such that a person has completed regulatory plans at the time the loan requests are dealt with. One has not necessarily had in the other hospital projects either, so there is no difference in the way this is to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e670	We're not talking about regulatory plans. We're talking about a business plan – what the different hospitals are going to do, and where they're going to do it. Here's a process that has already led to a loan request, which is then dealt with here. It's in the cards of what the government parties now say, that one is so dissatisfied with what's happening, that one really has to go through a new process. As the representative Tetzschner says, there is now a postponement, his reason for not doing a good enough job. Does the Council agree with Mr Tetzschner's precise description of the situation we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e675	First of all, we're not dealing with the loan request right now. There has been no basis for addressing the loan request today. Today we are dealing with a proposal for a representative that does not contain enough information to address this major and important matter. The representative is quite right in that, and that is why I have not recommended a loan application for Stortinget today. This is a proposal for a representative we are dealing with. Secondly, I have not seen any postponements. For the time being, the progress in this matter is as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e680	So far, we've heard only criticism from the trade unions, we've seen an unexplained process, and we've been served vague words, like "illumination," which nobody knows what is, instead of getting a proper investigation, which everyone knows what is. If we look at the history, we have not seen that the Minister of Health intervened where adopted plans have been put in the drawer. So I'd like to ask the Minister of Health if he thinks it's a political responsibility to make a proper investigation in such a comprehensive, expensive and risky case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e685	The answer to that is of course yes, and therefore no loan application will be presented to the Stortinget until the government believes it has the quality required for this type of project. With regard to this matter, it was such that when SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre were in government, there was a planning of a giant hospital in Gaustad. One would lay down the Radium Hospital, and one would not build a new hospital on Aker. One was to build the largest hospital in northern Europe in Gaustad. These were plans that I thought would not respond to the needs of the people of Oslo. There were also plans that I did not think were well-founded, given that this would be a sensible solution for the people of Oslo. That is also why in 2016 we drew up a completely different target picture for Oslo, which is the basis for the development of the Radium Hospital. A new hospital is planned at Aker, and the Municipality of Oslo has been assigned to the high school guard, who was suspended for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e690	The plan requires a saving of 8.1 pst. in the year until the end of the new hospital building. Then you're going to save $1.4 billion. kr in the year until 2037. Then you're going to save 2 billion. kr in the year following that. Today, OUS, Oslo University Hospital, has 170 watchlines. An optimistic estimate of the loss of 30 watchlines in a new solution is a maximum of 100 million. kr in annual operating profit. It is miles away from the suggested assumptions of between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr per year. On what solid factual basis can it be demonstrated that this can be saved against 2 billion? kr per year, when by increasing the efficiency of the watchlines, 100 million can be saved at most. kr annually in operating profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e697	I have problems finding one fixed point in the Moxnes math that's right, but I'll try. Before the new hospital is put into service in 2030, Oslo University Hospital will have saved 800 million. kr, but not annually. Forty-five million. SEK annually is SEK 450 million. kr. I do not think that is inconvenient for a hospital with an income budget of 24 billion. kr. Then they're going to have a new 350 million Radium Hospital win. NOK when they put it into service before 2030. After 2030, the benefit of using the entirely new hospital structure shall be of 1.3 billion. SEK, there 570 million. kr is due to the collection of regional hospital functions. With the changed loan conditions that the government has launched, this could extend over more time and not require the same kind of conversion that was originally in these plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e706	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e714	Just before Easter, there was a new report on this issue, a hospital in Oslo. Together with a group of eight specialist experts, Øyvind Almaas and Eilif Holthe have produced a thorough document in which they conclude that by betting on the Ullevål option you will be able to save $20 billion. kr. That's in case 20 billion. which could have been used for hospitalisation elsewhere in the health south-east or to other hospitals around the country, where you are waiting for improvements. Then I thought it should be a little more uplifted. I hope at least that the Minister of Finance has noticed this report. After all, finance ministers are always looking to save money and find shelter, and I expect her and her department to study this report thoroughly. After I read it, it actually makes a lot of sense. Therefore, when Health South-East is going to deal with the lighting of the Ullevål option that has been ordered, and get it up at its board meeting in June, I – I’m not going to use the word ‘demander’, even if I want to – expect you to go through this report and point out where the eight-man group is wrong, what the facts are, are wrong, and what predictions about the future are wrong, among other things. overall capacity of hospitals in this region related to population growth. Otherwise, I would like to say that, as far as I can see, there are only some in the Right Party and the Labour Party in Oslo who support the Gaustad option. The other parties will be to preserve, and not defeat, Ullevål. And I say it so clearly, because it is also not unknown to this assembly that the annual meeting of the Oslo Progress Party has unanimously decided that Ullevål is not wanted to be closed. When we later got this thorough report from professionals, which we have reason to trust, we use it as a basis in the Oslo Progress Party, and I hope that the lighting that comes will explain exactly what is wrong with this document, which the entire committee and, of course, the Council of State have read carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e723	Both the government parties and the Workers' Party are pushing the health business forward in this matter. It's their responsibility, it's said. But the fact that Oslo’s population has a good and sufficient hospital supply is a legitimate political responsibility. That the food supply is good and the trauma and emergency medicine good is a political responsibility. The fact that the bill for new and necessary investments and for the operation of the hospital service can be settled is a political responsibility. I am therefore very disappointed, if not surprised, that the government parties and the Workers' Party are voting against the proposal to investigate the hospital plans for Oslo properly. I see here parties running from their political responsibility. I'm proud of being a midget beer – moving in as such. As a resident of Groruddalen, I know that the hospital supply today is far from sufficient for the growing population of the valley. Aker Hospital is located in my district, district of Bjerke. It's that part of Oslo with the fastest population growth. But there has been considerable uncertainty about our future hospital services for a long time. Unfortunately, we cannot help but note that this uncertainty is continuing. It is completely unintelligible how Health South-East has first been able to plan for the mountain district not to go to Aker Hospital, but to Gaustad, that Alna city part goes to Aker Hospital, while it is in the blue where Stovner and Grorud are to be transferred. So here we're talking about 140,000 people. Today we could strike a line over the uncertainty of us who live in the Groruddalen. We could have decided that the government must give priority to the work of a new local hospital for the whole of the Grorud Valley on Aker. Unfortunately, the government parties are opposed to this proposal, and thus we see that their willingness to give priority to the Groruddalen is limited. This government has made it a haven to propose and defend irresponsible economic policies, and now we see it again. We are talking about the largest hospital investment in Norwegian history, and we are already seeing that the cost estimates have increased and increased. Even the government parties underline in the suspension the great uncertainty of these cost estimates, but they do not take the consequences of the uncertainty, and you can wonder what you think is the solution. Are we going to figure out this money out in the 2020s when the estimates don't stand? More realistically, cost gaps will impact on other necessary investments and expansions in other parts of Health South-East, or the operating budgets – and on the seventh and last patients. So I will end by challenging the Progress Party to be concrete: what are they going to have to see in the loan application this autumn in order to be able to vote for in the context of the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e736	The left has dealt with the plans for the OUS development in a comprehensive process, in the party's urban governance group in Oslo and later in a national government decision. Particular attention has been paid in the work on these decisions to the opinion of the external quality insurer for the project, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which concludes that there is significant uncertainty about the investment costs and the operational benefits. Yes, it actually says it – ‘significant’. In order for this giant project to be realised, the OUS must have built up a capital reserve of approximately 800 million. kr for a period until the buildings are completed. Of course, the most significant factor affecting this result is the productivity of the OYS. In Health South-East, there is an annual increase in this productivity of nearly 2 pst. each year over the coming years. This is a growth that is cloud-high above the national average in our other hospitals, which was – on average – 0.25 pst. annual from 2013 to 2017. At OUS, other productivity fell in 2018. In order to ensure that the OUS will be able to achieve such ambitious objectives, it is necessary, in the view of the Left, to follow the path of a comprehensive action plan. It must be stressed that during this period, for example: on Gaustad both demolished, built and operated. Noise and dust pollution resulting from such a project will be extensive and there is too little problem in the plan. The traffic pattern in the area must also be converted. This smells like chaos and confusion, not efficiencies and savings. It also surprises me that the relationship with the University of Oslo has not been affected to a greater extent. According to estimates, the rental costs of winding up the teaching facilities on Ullevål and the accompanying extension of Domus Medica on Gaustad will result in a rent increase for UiO of 200 million. kr annually. Depending on which compensation scheme is chosen by the country – which varies between 40 pst. and 75 pst. – the rent will incur an additional cost for the medical faculty of between 50 million. NOK 100 million. kr annually. This will obviously lead to a heavy burden on the faculty, which in turn affects the production of education. The most striking thing about this relationship, however, is that the OUS administration has apparently not made the principal of the university aware of this. And for those who are not aware of it: Rector Svein Stolen sits on the board of the OUS. He now says to the university newspaper Universitas: ‘I believe this is the wrong policy, because this is loss. Oslo University Hospital is an extremely important partner for us, and we are important to them. The weakening of that coupling is unfortunate. So much intervention in the budget as we see here is going to go beyond this cooperation." For my part and for my part of the Left, I hope this is not an illustration of the seriousness of the process that this giant project has been involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e754	I have no doubt about the need for better hospital construction and increased capacity in the Oslo region. However, the Workers' Party assumes that the land choices to be made are sound and economically sustainable. To put it simply: that you make the right choice. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that the progress of other important projects in Health South-East should not be delayed as a result of the plans in Oslo, whether it be the Inland Hospital or the South-East Hospital. In Agder, where I come from, there is a real concern now that the Oslo expansion could have consequences for the investment plans of the Sørlande hospital, especially given today's government's tight financial hospital framework. We have seen in both Inland and More and Romesdal that we cut offers – not because it is professionally justified, but because the economy is tight. The process so far has generated a lot of noise. It is Oslo University Hospital, Health South-East and the responsibility of the Minister of Health to create the necessary confidence in the final decision. When one hears the debate in the Chamber today, my impression is that the Minister of Health is carrying on a shattering stature in terms of his own party cases and not least the various government parties had to think about this matter. It's not in itself reliable. Now there is a decision to illuminate the Ullevål option, which has been discussed by many. But what does this decision to illuminate really mean? I did not understand that myself after an extensive consultation of the Health and Care Committee on 5 March. Is lighting likely to lead to an investigation as to whether the findings in the lighting should provide it? Or is this just an obligation for it to look good on the paper afterwards? In its introduction, the case-rapporteur, Mr Grimstad, was concerned with the differences between the performer and the controlling function. That is precisely why the government and the health minister who are responsible for it have a huge responsibility in this particular case. This is a process that the Minister of Health and the government must be in control. The uncertainty and risk surrounding the development appears to be high, yes per day too high. We can't afford to make the wrong decision in this case, because it will have major consequences for patient treatment, not only in the Oslo region, but far beyond Norway. But it could also lead to a weakening of the people's confidence in the health system that we are set to govern. That will be the last thing we need in a case that should really be a joy and talk about a historic promise for our hospital offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e767	It's rare that we've seen as good an example as we see in the hall today, in bourgeois chaos. So Höie's been standing here hard to put Ullevål Hospital down, but so his government partners, their representatives on the Stortinget, are trying to beat each other into running out of that decision. This can easily be solved by cutting through and voting for our proposal to get a proper investigation of the Ullevål option, rather than doing what Bent Höie wants, to vote down this proposal. I remind you that the quality insurer, Opak/Metier, recommended to consider alternatives other than the Gaustad/Aker option, and there is one possibility of using the buildings on the Rikshospital for their technical lifetime, i.e. until 2040/2045. Screened operation of planned surgery is an effective way to organise treatment in hospitals. We know that population growth in Oslo and Akershus makes construction on Aker urgent. From the adoption of Aker in 2010, until a possible new Aker is completed in 2030, the population of Oslo and Akershus has increased by over 300,000 inhabitants, i.e. more than the whole of Bergen. So a solution with local hospital in Aker, combined with the gradual expansion of Ullevål, will require smaller investments in the short and medium term and have the necessary flexibility for future adjustments and extensions. There is very little evidence for Health South-East claims that large units provide significant operational savings. On the contrary, we see that higher costs have been identified in hospitals with more than 600 beds, and in Norway, the Western Week is the most effective health company. It consists of two small and two medium-sized hospitals with emergency reception and standby in all units. It is therefore not an objective to have the lowest possible and maximum units. There is no efficient operation of hospitals, showing the experience. There is also a reason why the Stortinget should take responsibility and vote for an investigation into the Ullevål alternative and not just bet sand on what the health bureaucrats and the health minister aim at, namely to put Ullevål hospitals down, to split the emergency environment into two and thus to rage a vital environment of competence in the event of major disasters, accidents or terror. We have to stop that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e778	Hospital provision should be a matter of just one aspect, of ensuring a good patient offer. There are capacity challenges in the Central East area today, and it will definitely be if no action is taken. Red, Central Party and SV appear to be busy with blanks only. Empty itself doesn't provide better services, it's just an element of it. Conditions such as strengthening the private, ideal hospitals of the Diakon home and Lovisenberg are not mentioned by the parties Red, SV or the Center Party, but these are local hospitals for six parts of Oslo. The Progress Party is committed to strengthening the good work these hospitals are already doing, and is now asking Health South-East to expand their responsibilities. At the other end, it will affect the dimensioning of the new public hospital. The economy of the project is crucial. Regardless of which land is finally selected, this project becomes expensive. If the budget appropriations and the planned operational efficiency increase do not work, the patient offer across Health South-East, from the South to the Inland, may be compromised. For the Progress Party, it is absolutely essential that the economic risk of the project be reduced. The government has now taken a grip on loan terms. Only to extend the amortisation period and allow annuity loans release 500 million. in the first few years. It helps to reduce the risk, but health south-east has to work on these numbers. It's not the battle of the Oslo hospitals today. Through this case, the party of progress has been clear to Health South-East about the expectations we have on the day they promote a loan application for Stortinget. The first time the Storting is going to deal with this matter is when Health South-East is promoting the loan application. We have requested that alternative land choices be investigated. The progress party cannot today say which plot option is the best, but we expect Health South-East to promote an investigation that provides a well comparable basis. It will be crucial for where one will conclude that it is wisest to establish a new hospital. The Progress Party also demands that we remove the regulatory risk. As of today, we do not know what the Municipality of Oslo will allow for construction, nor do we know what objections the Riksantikvar will raise. We need to reduce the financial risk, and the Progress Party has also been very clear on this. We are also clear that we have some expectations that private hospitals in the region will be strengthened and that it will also affect dimensioning. It doesn't have to do as Red, Center Party and SV do here, only have to do with the site selection. It does not solve any challenges today, and it does not solve any challenges in the future. The size shall be determined only when the loan application is made. The party of progress has sent its signals, and they cover far more than just the choice of empty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e795	In the reply, Health Minister Höie said that under the red-green government there was a plan for a large collection at Gaustad. It's a mismanufacture. Just enough, the new director already expressed a vision in 2012 to put Ring 3 in the tunnel and collect all the hospital activity in the company at Gaustad. But it was during this government, in 2014, in the report ‘Idephase OUS Campus Oslo’ that such a collection was ranked as the best option. Strong contradictions from Vegvesenet resulted in an error. The plan that was in force in the health service under our government was ‘Land Development Plan 2025’, where co-location was assessed to be unrealistic for investment, local and probably also traffic reasons. That was well said in 2011. There's a lot of cover-ups in this case. The Health Minister said in his reply that an explanation would contain a statement – something similar. The question is, why can't you decide that there should be an explanation? This is a game of words, and it's a veil. The fact that the decision did not give rise to a plan of operations is one reason in itself that the process has so little confidence. For how can a billion-dollar gain reality be determined when an unknown person is asked to do what in the entity? The government party writes that Stortinget does not take a position on these kinds of issues ‘before the government makes proposals on any loan framework’. It's also wrong. Paragraph 30 of the Health Services Act clearly states that in such important cases as this, the health service does not have the competence to decide. The government does not want to submit it to Stortinget before the loan request arrives, but according to the law, they have every reason to do so. Instead of ensuring a democratic, open process is decided on the largest, most expensive and perhaps most important hospital project for a long, long time raised into the closed rooms, to a discussion at the Chamber of the Prime Minister's office. Such a process is not actually worth the health care service. It shows the dark back of the health business model. It also shows that a first one determines the conclusion, and then a second one will make a process fit afterwards. The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen said the battle is not on today. It may be, but the open, democratic battle stands today. Now this is being reduced to a group work in the new plural government, and that is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e806	We hear from several of the representatives of the government parties that it is exclusively an empty issue for the proposers. No, it's a question of what kind of hospital services Oslo's population is going to have in the future, and of what hospital services you're going to have in the entire East. But it's improper that the plot selection is pretty close to the final offer of a sheep. It's improper that there's quite a difference in the plans that exist and that can be realized on Gaustad, versus Ullevål. That's why we think it's so crucial to get the various options properly identified. The representative of the Advance Party said that the health company was required to conduct an alternative choice of plots in connection with the loan application. All right. Does this mean, then, that the Progress Party believes that the lighting notified by the health company and Oslo University Hospital is not good enough? Is there another investigation you want? Why, then, cannot we vote in favour of the proposal that is before us today? It is said that claims have been made to eliminate regulatory risk. I have to say that is a very significant claim that it will be interesting to follow up on the government budget in the autumn, when we are going to deal with the loan request. Reducing economic uncertainty is required. If you have requested that you actually set up a business plan for everyone first, it will be interesting to see when we get back to the government budget, if these requirements are met, and if the Progress Party is willing to vote against the loan request and go against these plans. And if you actually do that, why can't you vote to investigate these options carefully now? Now this proposal is on the table. There is considerable uncertainty. It is said from several of the representatives of the government parties and is very much emphasised how much uncertainty there is in fact when it comes to these plans. I have to say there is quite a distance between the rhetoric we hear from the representatives of the government parties, and what is the announced result of the vote this afternoon. Here it is obvious that some representatives need to sanctify themselves. They were there to warn against the uncertainty and against these plans, but they still voted in favour. Then the story and afterwards show who took responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e818	I have not yet met anyone who clearly understands what is driving the Council of State Höie in this matter. There has been no explanation other than that the State Council of Höie supports the Workers' Party and the Right in Oslo City Council in a hospital expansion that involves an urban development plan for Oslo – that is, to facilitate other investments, which will then promote the interests of the municipality. Some other logical story I haven't got. There's a huge professional and popular resistance to the plans, and there's come up a thorough alternative that will save 20 billion. kr. Still, that doesn't mean anything. What we are seeing here today is that support among the government parties is faltering. The rapporteur of the left is a tone in his criticism of the plans. The progress party travels around the country and the beach and criticises the plans, but is currently in the position. This kind of double communication won't last. The representative, Listhaug, is trying to explain what is at the heart of the matter. State Council Höie does not take any maritime criticism for how he has progressed in following his own guidance on the procedure for large hospital investments. Plans are presented without a business plan. There's talk of targeting and lighting alternatives. A very theoretical estimate of expected savings to finance the whole is provided — abstract words without concrete content. This refers to the degrees that need to change the way we proceed, and what we serve as the basis for our hospital policy. What needs to be is a health administration law where those who sit as representatives of the government are elected by the county councils. It would not have been possible to proceed in such a way as the board does today, if it had been elected and thus had to stand for election and stand for its decisions later on. Today, the system is such that those who sit on the boards only carry out the will of the Council of State. And when the state council is wrong, which is so thoroughly illuminated here, the whole system is going to run out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e830	I would like to say that seas about the centre party are not getting an impact on proposal No. 2, this case comes up again. The reality is that after examining this Document 8, you will have to get back to work. What we've experienced so far is a huge waste of planning money and the time of professionals. One doesn't have a solid foundation. That basis must reach even Michael Tetzschner, representative of the Oslo Right, so clearly goes against the plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e833	I'll stick to the time frame for a short comment, I think that's what I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e838	The case rapporteur has 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e844	That's when I'm going to extend! Beginner error after two years, it's not bad. [[Laughter]] I'm going to introduce myself to the representative Bears Moxnes' description of a so-called bourgeois chaos. I must say I like him better when he with the same pathos presents chaos on the red-green side of this matter. There is a justification for the vote of the civil parties in this case. It is that a serious treatment in Stortinget consists in waiting for health south-east lighting on this matter before we proceed to the next step. Then we'll see if there's a light going up for us, or if someone has to turn off the light and go home and do the homework one more time. Then I would like to say about the attack on the Minister of Health's alleged goal of having Ullevål put down: it is at my discretion a mistake. I have heard several times the Minister of Health say on the contrary, that to him there is one fat whether it becomes Ullevål or Gaustad, the most important thing is that this must be carried out with serious cost frameworks and be an expression of an overall project. So Ullevål or Gaustad is the same thing. That is a position I support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e853	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e858	If it is red-green chaos, it must also be the responsibility of the Workers' Party, as they cannot stand together with the rest of the left side of both proposals in the matter. I would say to the Progress Party that the bluff that we don't care about anything other than plots does not become any more true of it being repeated over and over again. We know that the Health South-East proposal means that the emergency environment is split into two, that people at risk of death must be sent to ambulances between Aker Hospital and the Rikshospital because there is no more an emergency community in general if these plans are implemented. It is also dangerous in view of newborns, you also have to send babies who are seriously ill, in ambulances from Aker to Gaustad along the Ring 3 – completely unnecessary. An increased risk for patients is planned. That is why we are opposed to this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e865	Then I get to start by repeating something that is true, and it's that Red has suggested that alternative land choices be investigated – nothing else. Red has not spoken today about the private, ideal hospitals of Lovisenberg and the Diakon home in Oslo, which provides a fantastic hospital offer to the local population in six districts. Red has also not talked about the financial risk with the project, how to solve it. Also, Red has not yet considered that it is only when the loan request is advanced for Stortinget that Stortinget takes a position on this offer from Health South-East. When Health South-East is going to promote that application for the Storting, then we'll look carefully through it, then we'll look at what they've chosen to call "illuminate". If you call it "light" or "exploration," you really don't have anything to say. What's important is that the Storting gets good information about what's the alternative. If the Ullevål option is the best, it is quite obvious that Oslo University Hospital must be built on the Ullevål plot. If it's Gaustad that gives the best patient offer in total, then it's Gaustad you have to choose. The party of progress has no idealistic belief that one plot is better than the other. The only thing we're concerned about is ensuring good patient care. This project is very expensive. 40 B.C.E. kr – perhaps the first stage of construction, it will be financed through operational efficiency improvements. It is clear that we are concerned that the operational efficiency improvements should not be achieved. But we don't know the details of this today. There's something Storting is going to get a lot of information about further, when the loan request is advanced. Health South-East, which the Progress Party has been opposed to establishing, today has 2.9 million inhabitants. The entire hospital offer to the inhabitants of Health South-East depends on the fact that this project is carried out in an economically sound manner. Therefore, the Progress Party does not take this matter lightly at all. We just can't see that it's just about plotting, like Red, the Senter Party and SV here are on the agenda. We see that this is a much larger picture, where we have to get good answers, and I can promise everyone who sits in this room, and all patients who are included in the hospital offer in Health South-East, that there is a concern the Progress Party is going to have until the loan application is promoted. We're going to do that job thoroughly. This is about much more than the choice of empty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e872	The most important thing for Oslo’s population is a good hospital offer — not the location of hospitals. With us, the distances aren't large. Quality, capacity and competence must be at stake. The organisation of Oslo University Hospitals and the location of new hospital buildings are of great importance for the future health of the population of Oslo. It is time for Oslo to be funded a completely necessary investment in new hospital buildings. Oslo University Hospital was established to improve coordination of regional hospitals in the capital. The regional hospital functions still need to be combined. This can happen on Gaustad or on Ullevål. Merging professional environments will be better for patients and provide better use of resources. For the population of Oslo, it is essential that sufficient capacity be built to meet future population growth. As part of the solution, priority should be given to the extension of the Aker area to a new Groruddalen local hospital. The population of seven of Oslo's urban areas has Lovisenberg or the Diakon home as their local hospital. It is important for patients, but also for Oslo’s total hospital provision, that these two diaconic hospitals receive good, predictable framework conditions and increased responsibility for their local population. These hospitals have the capacity, capacity and willingness to expand their activities. This increases flexibility and will form an important part of Oslo’s overall capacity in the future. The success of a construction project is in selecting the right project and ensuring successful implementation. A decision on the future hospital structure in the Oslo area must be evidence-based, and I am pleased that Health South-East is further making thorough assessments of the development options. Hospital expansion in the Oslo area must ensure hospital capacity for the future and also reserve area for further development. I believe it is important that Aker hospitals as a local hospital for Groruddalen are realised, as well as that this should be part of the overall assessment when the regional hospital functions are collected. Then I am one of those who perceive that the cost of construction is something – not entirely, but something secondary to the operation of hospitals. It is, after all, how the regional hospital is run, which will mean something to the inhabitants. Without being pessimistic on their own behalf, I have to admit that the majority of the population rarely have the will to spend more on Oslo than they have to. It's not a performance project to make sure that Oslo's population gets the best hospital offer we can get. If there is a contrast between safe hospitals, where quality, capacity and competence are emphasised, and location, quality, capacity and competence are to be given priority. That's what Oslo Right – if there's any doubt. I believe that the majority of the committee has taken that into account, and therefore, of course, supports the majority's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e885	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e890	This is not an empty question, but if it's right to put down Norway's largest emergency hospital, if it's right to go against professionals, and if it's right to approve a project that has such a doubtful economic plan behind it. We have two proposals – one on prioritising the work of a new local hospital for the whole of the Grorud Valley on Aker and one on getting an outing of the Ullevål area. That proposal is not the central party's primary position, it's designed to be able to get multiples in this room. It's a careful suggestion, which unfortunately doesn't get multiples. The view of the centre party was already presented in 2015, when we put forward a proposal for a representative to stop the plans for the co-location of the OUS and further develop the hospital structure in Oslo through today's hospital facilities. That time we got support from SV. It's a little bit longer today, but at least that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e897	The representative Lundteg asked what was driving the Minister of Health, and I should say that. The first is the importance of bringing together the regional hospital for Health South-East in one location. It has a significant impact on the supply of the population of Oslo, but also on the population of the rest of the whole of Health South-East. It is of professional importance because it will provide patients with a better offer that these functions are grouped together in one place and that patients are not allowed to be transported back and forth between two separate units in the regional hospital. It is also important for the offer to the rest of the population, not only in Health South-East, but also in the rest of Norway, to have two parallel peak-competence environments in two hospitals in the capital, the rest of Norway loses corresponding competence. Therefore, it is very surprising that the Senterpartiet arranges for such a model. The second is to have a new hospital built in Aker, where – at the right time – we can start the transfer of the population of Oslo that now belongs to Ahus, to Oslo. I underline ‘at the right time’ to move the entire population of Oslo from Aarhus to Aker, for example. in 2030, would have dramatic consequences for Ahus. It would have meant that the hospital supply to the population in that area had changed dramatically, and that would not have been proper. But it is very clear that the goal is that the entire population of Oslo should belong to Oslo University Hospital. So it's about increasing capacity: the first stage of construction adds up to an increase of capacity of 23 pst., while the population development in Oslo in the same period is 11 pst. That means that a build with a little more capacity than what you think you need in the first stage of construction, but one also has a second stage of construction. This is simply because it gives greater risk relief; one has the ability to make adjustments in other stages of construction if one has assessed errors in the first stage of construction. But one also takes note of this by having higher capacity than one really needs in the first stage of construction. It's also about maintaining the Radium Hospital as a strong competence environment and at the same time giving patients where a new clinic building is in progress. That's what drives me. Whether it's the Ullevål or the Gaustad Santa – it's more about what's most sensible in terms of building conditions and economic conditions. And that is what the Central Party and the SV have proposed today. They're talking about the Ullevål Santa Claus and the development and collection of the business in Oslo University Hospital. This means that many of the arguments that have come from SV, the Center Party and Red, for example. related to the sharing of the acute environment between Gaustad and Aker, is as relevant to the option for which they vote as for the other option, which is Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e908	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e913	There is no one in Oslo who does not believe that new investments are needed in the Oslo hospitals. It should actually be a pleasure for Oslo University Hospital to invest for nearly 60 billion. kr in the future, and the representative Nordby Lunde is quite right that it is rarely cheered on that kind of investment in Oslo. The people in Oslo and the staff at the hospitals in Oslo should have rejoiced over the badly needed investments, but they don't. Instead, they warn, and it must be a great cross of thought for the Minister of Health and the representatives of the government parties. We will return to this matter in connection with the state budget in the autumn. We are going to hold the government parties, and in particular the Progress Party, responsible for the promises they have made today, and this matter we will come back to several times. Although the loan application is now being dealt with, it is guaranteed that this matter will not be dealt with in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e920	The representative of the Progress Party made me go to the pulpit, because during this debate the Progress Party has repeated several times that our proposal is only about empty elections. The truth is that land selection – the area issue – is closely linked to professional activity. There is no plan of action in this area, and it is of concern. I am not surprised that the representative of the Progress Party does not listen to the arguments. After all, it's just a continuation that they haven't listened to the professional community and the concerns that come from the Legeforening, the Norwegian Nurses' Association, the Trade Union, the Norwegian Psychologists' Association and the Norwegian midwife's association. I think it's useful to listen to the arguments, so that we can have a more substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e928	It is interesting to listen to the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, who says about hospital investments that there is something secondary to how much a user in money there is in terms of operating. I think it's a pretty strong down payment, because we know that the whole amount that hospitals have to spend on investments is going to be refunded, including interest. If a waste of money, it will necessarily go beyond the patient's offer. The opinion of the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde is probably what explains that one does not take seriously the alternative investigation that has been presented, which represents an opportunity for savings of a total of 20 billion. kr. But the interesting thing in this discussion is what Mr Listhaug has said: ‘Light Ullevål as a real alternative’. So one should not light up, but have up a real alternative, which is Ullevål, and that after Health South-East has submitted a loan request to the Council of State. That means Health South-East must start again. They have to do the job again. They must illuminate it as an overall alternative, as shown by the hospital supervisor. So a sailor must also go into the business plan for what's going to happen on the different units, and then we're in the situation that we've lost valuable time here, we've spent a lot of money scarcely, and not least we've brought in a number of professionals for countless meetings that haven't been useful. What is therefore at the heart of the matter is that the Council of State, Höie, will have to go back to what he said at the corporate meeting on 24 June 2016. There will be a new case, a thorough treatment, and the matter has been pushed out in time as a result of the fact that once again the Council of State has not had a thorough process, has not had the necessary firm hand over this, as we see in a number of plans for hospitals around the country of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e937	I don't think we should add any motives to each other, I think everyone here in the hall is concerned with the best possible health care, and then we're a little bit in disagreement about what's the right way to go. In the case of the last post, by the representative Lundteg: it is such that the operating budget of Oslo University Hospital is 22 billion. kr per year. So if we think about 30 years of down payment, which is not unnatural, it's 660 billion. kr in the operating budget for that period. In light of that, I would say that Heidi Nordby Lunde has some good points in his post. I would also like to give the representative Kjersti Toppe just one thing – I tend to do that sometimes – namely, that she has suggested that the hospitals remain as they do today. But Kjersti Toppe wants most hospitals to last as they do today. What is interesting is that she happily overlooks the fact that Haukeland University Hospital operates its Somatikk 20 pst. more affordable than Oslo University Hospital – and it is okay for a representative from Hordaland. I ask the question here: Could it be that Oslo University Hospital is going to be more sensible? I think the answer is yes, and I think the majority in this room actually agree with me. So there might be reason to ask questions to SV: isn't it that the employees are represented in the boards? All the board decisions taken both in the OYS and in Health South-East have been included, and the vast majority of the decisions have been unanimous, so that is not so that the employees are not involved in the process. And that all professionals agree, never will happen in Norway. So one can also ask, how large does a maternity ward have to be to satisfy SV? These are already very large maternity wards. It's a little strange that there's a danger of breaking up these maternity wards in Oslo. Now I'm not taking a position on the question, it's just an interesting mention of the debate going on in other parts of the country. Then to the representative of Moxnes. He proves he's not listening to the patients. The user representative in Health South-East was concerned with one thing: collect the hospitals, we are tired of it being divided into two! It was the most important and obvious signal we received in the hearing. It overlooks Red's smooth. And then he's talking about laying down departments on Ullevål, but it's obviously completely uninteresting what happens to the departments at Gaustad and the Rikshospital. Those professional environments have no value for Red. It's interesting to notice. That we do not take responsibility because we vote against an investigation – what is it? We take responsibility, Höie takes responsibility, but we believe that in fact in this process, as in the other hospital processes we have had, one let companies work. Now we're saying that we're waiting for the lighting, and we have no performance in this for groups other than patients, it's the patients that are most important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e954	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e959	It's interesting that the representative of Stensland says that 20 billion. NOK is not so much money in relation to the savings opportunities. Then it's even more interesting, what's in the attitude of the government parties. It says: ‘The majority may not understand anything other than the uncertainty surrounding an efficiency plan of this magnitude.’ Better it can't be written – that here's one on swinging grounds. As for the views of the Center Party on hospitals, I can only assure you that we have a dynamic attitude towards hospitals, where we need to strengthen our capacity. We need to strengthen the quality of the whole country, and then one at the same time as this increase in capacity and quality must have a level playing field with regard to the use of money, and that is what we stand for. But it seems that the Council of State does not follow that advice in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e971	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e976	I didn't say 20. kr is a little bit of money. I informed the assembly that the operating budget for Oslo University Hospital is 22 billion. kr, during a 30-year period it is 660 billion. kr. In view of this, the investment is not as huge and as extensive as it can be imagined. Then Lundtigen talks about wasting. There is nothing more wasteful than having inefficient premises and poor framework conditions for employees. Anyone engaged in other activities ensures that one has the best possible premises and equipment so that employees can do the best possible job without hindering inappropriate premises. There is actually some of the core elements of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e983	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1002	ALS is a cruel disease. The diagnosis is one of the worst you can get, both for those who are hit, and for those who are affected. The only thing that ALS-sick know is that the body dies a little every day, that the muscles disappear, and that they become more and more nurturing every day. Those who are diagnosed with ALS often have only two to three years to live. We don't hear so often about the ALS disease, but the disease is more common than you would think. Only in Norway is it about. 300 to 400 people affected at all times. As those diagnosed have a relatively short course of disease, there will be quite a number of cases over time. A British historian who died of ALS described the disease as an ever smaller prison cell. He said that you didn't know when the prison would be so crowded that it would crush you, just that you knew that one day it would be. Therefore – he said – the disease is only a matter of when. I've got insight into how skirted life is, by Cathrine Nordstrand, a bursting and life-happy lady at her best age who sits up at the gallery here today, and who suddenly got ALS, but who doesn't give up. She's on for ALS-sickness to be seen, heard and given the help they need. I have been contacted by several ALS-sick and relatives – several of them sitting in the gallery today – both by courageous people who themselves are affected by the disease, and by relatives, who are left with great frustration and anger over how their loved ones have been treated. Common to them is that they are stated about the lack of knowledge, the lack of information, and upset about the treatment they have received from their respective municipalities. It may not be true that the last time they have had morbidity will be used to fight the system. It's simply unworthy. For the last time that the victim has left, he/she and the relatives must have together so that they can live, create memories and grasp and process what is going to happen. It's not easy to live when you know you're going to die, but we can't have it so that municipalities, politicians and health bureaucrats make the process unbearable for those who are already in an incredibly difficult situation. In recent times, we should not agree to fight against a municipal bureaucracy. A relative told me that ALS is a brutal disease, but that the treatment of the municipality was even more brutal. It made a huge impression. One of those who have contacted me is Åshild, who is sitting up at the gallery today. Åshild's father died of ALS last May – only two and a half years after he was diagnosed. Åshild's father was Per Egil and had worked as a teacher in the Dovre municipality since the 1980s. When Per Egil got the message from the doctors at the hospital that he had ALS, he got some brochures on his way out the door, so he could read about the disease. Is there anyone who thinks that a cancer person had been treated like this? "You have cancer, and here you have some pamphlets that you can read." As Åshild said, they hoped that it was cancer the father had, because then at least he had a chance to get well and live on. The municipality never concealed that they would prefer Per Egil to live in an institution. It didn't want him or the family. He wanted to stay at home and get needed help there, as he was right on. However, lack of knowledge about both individual decisions, BPA – user-led personal assistance – ALS and the rights of Per Egil made this decision a nightmare. The Dovre municipality thought that the BPAs would come from home health care, and the caregivers who came did not know what it meant to be BPA. A BPA shall help users to live as normal a life as possible, not just as a caregiver. This, together with poor communication in-house in the municipality, absent knowledge, hour lists full of holes, caregivers who reported rejection in the last few years, and that the municipality failed to give Per Egil the decisions in writing, which led to the family not having an overview, making the family more and more of their own. The family became increasingly frustrated, and the time turned away for Per Egil. They decided to go to the media with the story, but later they experienced that the treatment and follow-up from the Dovre municipality became even worse after the newspaper was published. In the last nine months, Åshild, her husband and siblings had to act as user-controlled personal assistant to the father 24 hours a day. With the address in Lillehammer and Trondheim, respectively, Åshild and the family are still uncertain about how they could do it, but they did. You set up for those you're happy with, when everything else fails. Another person I have had contact with is Hilde, who is also here today. Hilde is married to Bjørn Erik. Before Christmas, Bjørn Erik was in full employment. On 7 January this year he was diagnosed with an aggressive form of ALS. Now he's lost his language, he's sitting in a wheelchair, and the lung capacity is greatly reduced. When Bjørn Erik was sent home from the hospital in Lillehammer after the diagnosis was asked, it was only with the message that he could contact the neurological department or call the ALS nurses if he had any questions. In addition, he was told that there was no hope, and that the drugs offered are the same as those given 20 years ago. That's it. Hilde, the children and Bjørn Erik have struggled to get help and to get permission to test other medications. Instead of having recently together, a lot of the time has been spent fighting for help. Six weeks after the diagnosis, Bjørn Erik received a stay at Solås residence and rehabilitation centre. Here he finally got help and support. Nevertheless, it turned out that when Solås contacted the municipality of Ostre Toten, they had not been informed by Lillehammer about the diagnosis of Bjørn Erik. It was not until the end of February that the first meeting with the municipality was held, and although Bjørn Erik was then taken seriously and got help, it took many weeks before it was in place – and weeks is a long time for one who was hit by ALS. Unfortunately, these stories are not unique. In several municipalities, similar stories emerge – stories that the municipality has not provided good enough health care, follow-up, treatment and organisation, stories that families in an extremely difficult situation face a municipal bureaucracy with a lack of knowledge and competence about the disease and about the rights of those affected. Such stories build upon the need to develop national guidelines for ALS treatment. We can't accept Lotto-like states, where it's the municipality in which the ALS-framed people live, which determines how they're met and treated, the short time many of these people have left to live. In addition to ensuring more equal treatment, irrespective of the address of residence, national guidelines may help to improve the knowledge of the disease to both small and large municipalities and provide a framework for what ALS disease should expect. I believe that such national guidelines should be developed by setting up a group of people from the hospital sector and from the municipal sector, and not least from ALS disease and relatives. How should the follow-up to the diagnosis from the hospital be? What follow-up can you expect from the hospital? How do we ensure that municipalities that get ALS disease get knowledge and competence to follow up the sick? How can you plan and organize to care for the whole family? This is a dramatic situation for the whole family, the sick person himself, the spouse and the child. How do you put up a process against using a respirator or not? What's the last time going to be like? This can be planned for a while in advance through good cooperation between the municipality, the sick person and his family.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1033	There are few meetings that have made a stronger impression on me than the meetings with the people who get this disease. Therefore, I would like to ask a question to the Council of State: Will the Minister of Health contribute to the development of guidelines on how to meet ALS patients, from diagnosis to end of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1036	Thank you for making this important interpellation. I fully agree with the interpellant that any meeting with one who has ALS, and his or her relative, makes a strong impression. ALS is a very serious disease. I am concerned that patients and relatives should be met by competent staff and a health and care service that provides safety and predictability. Patients and relatives should be involved in both the design and implementation of the service provision. All persons with ALS should be given the opportunity to experience meaningful and good days — even when you notice the disease and the disability is coming. Many people get good help, but we have to do what we can to ensure that all people with high and complex needs get a good help. This means that services must be organised on the basis of individual needs and wishes. A person with ALS will need a number of health and care services both from the municipality and from the specialist health service. The Health Directorate’s brain health status report shows that patients with suspected ALS disease should be referred promptly and diagnosed by the neurological department of the hospitals. Determined and different municipal services are important for many ALS patients, but many municipalities have little experience in the follow-up of ALS patients. The specialist healthcare and hospitals therefore have a special responsibility also in relation to the follow-up of patients and of staff working with ALS patients in the municipality. Getting an ALS diagnosis will be very difficult. I have met people who say that in the first meeting with the hospital they were only told about the diagnosis, and got a brochure about ALS in their hands when they were going to go. Many will experience a state of shock where it becomes difficult to deal with the disease and the prognosis. This is also characterized by a lot of posterity. Good information is therefore an important task for hospitals and for the interdisciplinary ALS teams, which are available in most hospitals treating patients with ALS. Some patients get the diagnosis while they are admitted. They're close to an ALS team at the hospital, which can provide good information. Others are diagnosed in an out-of-patient consultation, and some ALS teams offer them an offer of contact with e.g. ALS nurse on the telephone or outpatient clinic after the first consultation. In order to ensure the safety of patients and their dependants, healthcare professionals must have a continuous dialogue with the patient and his or her closest relatives about the development of the disease and the wishes and needs of the patient and its relatives. The dialogue must take into account that the patient’s needs may change in line with the development of the disease. Such continuous dialogue is necessary in order to plan for life, ensure good treatment and ensure good cooperation between individuals, relatives and health professionals. An individual plan and coordinator can be a good tool to coordinate services so that everyday life becomes as simple and secure as possible for individuals and for the family. The individual level shall ensure that the patient is provided with a comprehensive, coordinated and individually adapted service provision and shall ensure the patient’s involvement and interaction with relatives. The coordinator is a service provider to ensure the necessary follow-up and coordination of the service provision, as well as progress in the work on an individual level. User-controlled personal assistance, BPA, may be a timely way of organising practical assistance and training for persons with a long-standing and high need for personal assistance. As we know from the government platform, it appears that a sample will now be set up to look into user-driven personal assistance and how we will get the system to work even more in line with the intention, namely that this should be a gender equality tool, which allows people to live their lives with assistance. In specialist health services, neurological wards often follow up patients with an ALS diagnosis. Many hospitals also have multi-disciplinary offers, as their own ALS team. The specialist healthcare service is responsible for the training of patients, relatives and caregivers in the municipalities. The hospital shall also ensure that a contact network is established between the hospital and the municipality, so that the patient can be sure to get help from the hospital if complications arise, or if other needs arise. Municipalities and hospitals need to work together to create good services, for example: by means of binding agreements. Neuro-SysMed is a new research centre at Haukeland University Hospital and the University of Bergen, which will receive 20 million from autumn 2018. kr per year for up to eight years from the Research Council to establish the first research centre for clinical treatment. The Centre shall investigate the treatment of central nervous system diseases — such as MS, ALS, Parkinson’s disease and dementia — and is important to provide serious sick patients with better access to the latest and best treatment. The Centre will also help to allow several patients to participate in clinical studies. In addition, the Ministry earmarks funds for research through the Norwegian Research Councils and regional health firms. These funds also finance research on ALS. There are several guides and guidelines that are relevant for the follow-up and treatment of patients with ALS. A guidance guide has been developed for the follow-up of people with high and complex needs. The government has also launched a pilot for structured multidisciplinary follow-up teams. It shall contribute to the practical implementation and testing of the supervisor. National Technical Councils for Relieving Treatment in the Final Stage of Life, National Professional Guideline for Long-Term Mechanical Ventilation and National Guide for Long-Term Mechanical Ventilation have also been developed. The communication of health and care services with both patients and relatives is a key element of professional advice and guidance in this area. Municipalities and health enterprises are responsible for complying with the requirements of the professional councils, including implementing measures to change practices. Implementation of the recommendations may include, inter alia: require the training of staff, the development of internal procedures, procedures and tools, changes in the organisation and development of new offers and better interaction with patients and relatives. We want from the government to strengthen relieving treatment and care. In 2017, the Palliation Committee delivered its public investigation, «On life and death. palliation to serious ill and dying.’ The investigation has been the subject of a general consultation. The government wants to follow up the investigation, and the ministry has therefore started work on a major report on reducing treatment and care, which is to be based on the investigation. The aim is to provide the gross domestic product report this year. We also want a professionally strong municipal health and care service with skilled employees who provide good health care and care. That is why we have launched Competence Commitment 2020, where we have a plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in municipal health and care services. It's been granted about 1.5 billion. for the follow-up to the measures. It is clear from the Government Platform that the Government also wishes to continue Competence Plan 2020. When a person receives an ALS diagnosis, this will usually also have major consequences for the relatives. The government wants to support and relieve the relatives so that they can also take care of their own health and have the opportunity to combine professional and social life with care for their loved ones. That is why we are now working on our own related strategy. On 1 October 2017, a new provision of the Health and Welfare Services Act entered into force. It gathers and clarifies the responsibility of the municipality towards those who have a particularly burdensome care job. This provision obliges the municipality to provide the necessary related support in the form of relief, training, guidance and care assistance. I have now described much of the work being done and how this work should be done. Unfortunately, we're all familiar with stories from reality where the description of what it should be is not the reality that the patient and the family meet. I am concerned that people with ALS should have a good and sound service offer, both in the municipality and in the specialist health service, and have the opportunity to live a meaningful and good life. I think, as the interpellant is also concerned, that there is a need to do something new in this area. I would therefore like to ask the Health Directorate to set up a working group to assess and make proposals on how to improve the quality and coherence of the services of persons receiving an ALS diagnosis. The working group shall consist of patients and relatives, as well as professionals from both hospitals and municipalities, who can look together at what is the right way to work on this further. Then the answer might be that we need to develop new guidelines, which the interpellant is involved in, but it could also be that we need to implement the package trajectory model, or the model like that. developed in connection with ParkinsonNet. What I'm concerned about is that we give patients and relatives, along with professionals with different positions and different competences, the opportunity to work together to both look at what's the right way to do this, and make good recommendations on how to make this work in practice for all patients – and not be as random as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1074	I just have to say that I'm so incredibly happy that this patient group is now going to take more seriously, that we're going to try to do more through at least putting in place a system that hopefully makes it work better. Guidelines may be something, but I also think that the idea of the Minister of Health to look at a type of package trajectory is very exciting. It's been very successful in the cancer area. If it could contribute to these patients being seen and treated in a better way, I think it's worth avoiding. I want to say that it is very good that both the relatives and the patients themselves should be involved. I think they're the closest ones to being able to make good sense of what's missing, where the shoe presses, what we should do more or less, so that we can get in place a worthy treatment for these people, who often have very little time left to live when they get sick. When I hear from those who have been in this situation, that those doctors are not advised to read on the web about ALS, they are advised not to talk to others who have this disease, I have to say that I am very concerned. I believe that the first follow-up you get at the hospital is incredibly important, and that there is something this group needs to look at. I believe that no one who gets such a type of diagnosis, which is simply a death sentence, should be sent home again with brochures, but get proper follow-up, for this is a very traumatic situation for those who experience it. I also think it is very good to do more in the field of research. It's some of the things that may be most doubtful for those who get this disease, that you don't know why you get it, you don't know what it comes from. It can be seen that in some areas there may be more cases than in other areas, but the reasons are not known. So it's incredibly important that there is more research, that you try to figure out what the cause of the disease is, and not least find a way to cure it. There is currently no available. These patients need to meet with a system that can turn their heels. These don't have time to wait, search and hold on, back and forth, as you often need in public systems when you need help. Therefore, such a package trajectory and policy could help to achieve this much faster than it might do through the ordinary system. Finally, I would just like to say that I think it is important that society organizes so that these people can be allowed to be at home at the end of their lives, and that society should stretch far to get to it. It's a group that lives for a short time, and we have to do everything we can to make them have a good life for as long as it lasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1089	I totally agree with everything the interpellant said here. It's clear that the way you get the information, or what in many ways is the first meeting with the disease when you get the diagnosis, is very important. I also believe that this first meeting is of great importance for how one will be able to master the new situation further. The European Association of Neurologists developed detailed recommendations already in 2012 on the first consultation with an ALS patient, which takes this into account. The stories that the interpellant presents show that these are not guidelines that have been used in all cases. It will therefore be important in this work that we are now going to do, to ensure that they are actually followed up in healthcare. Norway is a long-distance country with many municipalities, and many municipalities are small. Although many patients also have ALS in Norway, it will often be for a municipality that they meet with ALS for the first time when they are told that one of their inhabitants has ALS. This means that we also have to get this to be better connected, so that the municipality has the opportunity to use more of the hospital's competence in the development of their own employees, that they have tools that they can use, and can learn from the experiences of others and not have to go up this path again. What we see very often happens is that when a municipality doesn't handle this in a good way, it's the patient himself and not least the relatives who have to break up this road. It's a huge and too heavy job to do next to it that one really should have the opportunity to spend their time and resources on. I hope that, based on the work of this working group, we can also get good recommendations on the best way to ensure that we now have good, predictable arrangements in this area. I'm not very concerned about whether there are guidelines, package sequences or other models, but that there is a solution that patients, relatives and those who work in the service with patients have faith is the right way to use. I look forward to getting this work started and getting clear recommendations in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1106	I'm going to end up in particular with the last thing the Minister of Health said. What it's called, what's happening, isn't so important, but it's going to be a completely different situation than the examples we've heard about now, and as we've heard before, about how this can happen to people in a very tough situation, both the sick and the family, the relatives around. In this case, I find no reason to go into any such political debate. Here we just very much agree that something has to happen. I'm glad that it seems that the Council of States Genuint is taking hold of it and has outlined a process, and not least the natural fact that those who know what this really is about get to take part in that process, and that it's going quickly, because it's urgent. It is also true, as the Council of State said, that there are many different types of municipalities in Norway. Without apologizing in any context, because it's not my lot in this context here, some municipalities may have had extra challenges, to put it this way, in terms of getting enough people and enough competent people. There's also a factor here that goes on economics, but in a context like this, it kind of doesn't make sense to say that society can't afford it. Here society has to set up in every way, but then it's very important that there's not only very good, close and inclusive interaction between those involved, the sick and the relatives on one side and the municipality on the other. It must also be a very good and seamless – as we call it a bit popular – collaboration between the specialist health service and the municipal sector, and I would like to say between the state and the municipality. Then it's nice that we get guidelines, or what it's called, as well as that the state has to be involved and make sure that we get adequate skills. In some municipalities, there may be a long time, years, between each time you have patients who have ALS – some municipalities may never get one who has ALS at all – but yet the competence has to be there. At the same time, it's important that a person spends his time well, because after all, it goes from getting a diagnosis to a needing the help of the most. There is a time perspective that every day must be used in a good way to rig a good service. BPA, user-controlled personal assistance, can be such a model, as the Council of State was within. I would also like to take care to say that we in the Workers' Party Group are inviting a seminar on BPA on 6 June, because it is a system that is not entirely in line with what it should be, based on the intention given from this room. That's why we want to get to it. Then this disease is also an element to take into account the work that needs to be done at different levels. I look forward to what I would call constructive cooperation, so that the tough stories we've heard of can be involved and make a difference and provide both better treatment and a better living situation for both sick and relatives, because there will still be people who get this brutal, incurable diagnosis, and there are still many who have it – that was about 200-300 in Norway – and they should quite immediately also notice improvement there where there is obvious failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1119	It is a brutal message to be told that you have been diagnosed with ALS. It is brutal for the patient, but it is also brutal for the patient's family, circle of friends and colleagues. It is particularly difficult for children to understand the extent of the diagnosis that one of their parents or grandparents has received. Therefore, extra resources should be deployed with competent personnel to convey such a serious message to a childhood mind. The whole family must be offered support when such serious diagnosis is made. There are many emotions that get started when the disease becomes known, including: shock, sorrow, anger, anxiety, fear, panic, hopelessness and bitterness. The care of relatives is otherwise fully mentioned in the National Brain Health Strategy for 2018–2024. In Norway, there is a broad cross-political consensus that municipalities should provide primary health services. With 422 municipalities that vary from very small to very large, the level of competence also varies. ALS is a rare disease, which makes the competence weak in a lot of municipalities. Therefore, it is good to hear that the Council of State opens up national guidelines, which will be an important complement and an important support for health services in municipalities. I expect that Competencelift 2020 will further enhance the quality of our municipal health and care services. I am pleased that the Council of State mentioned individual plans and its own coordinator. State and municipality provide a large number of care services, which can be seen as unwieldy and complicated for people in crisis and grief. An individual plan and a separate coordinator will make life much easier for patients and their relatives. When e.g. a parent is diagnosed with ALS, a family of young children will need a large number of municipal health and care services. It may be relevant to involve schools, kindergartens, PPT and child protection as well as a number of other municipal services in related work. It is very demanding for a small family in a state of shock to deal with all the services that should be involved. Our few inhabitants are aware of the wide range of services provided by municipalities, which is also an important argument for individual plans and a coordinator to guide the patient and the immediate family to the right public services. As a result of living in a complex society with many offers, I believe that far more patient groups should be covered by individual plans and offered their own coordinators. The Council of State also mentioned that user-led personal assistance may be a way of organising practical assistance and training for ALS patients. Unfortunately, 422 municipalities interpret the rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistance very differently. I therefore look forward to the NOU coming, in the hope that demands and expectations will be coordinated and clarified. We don't know enough about ALS, and there's no cure for the disease. This is a disease that can affect all people. The youngest patient we know is only 28 years old. It is important to support and strengthen the basic research carried out at NTNU in Trondheim, and the stem cell research carried out at the Rikshospitalet. Research on ALS is described in the National Brain Health Strategy, and it's set at 20 million. kr per year for brain research. I would particularly like to commend the foundation ALS Norway, which has done an impressive job of collecting money for research in Norway. Equally valid in terms of who is responsible for the patient and national guidelines: All patients in Norway must be well cared for. It is our common responsibility as fellow human beings to facilitate as well as we can, whether we are politicians, health workers, neighbours, colleagues or family members. We can't take responsibility for humanity on others, because that's something we can all do, but we elected people have a special responsibility to provide our citizens with the best possible services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1134	I would like to thank the inter-pellant, who put this on the agenda. There is a patient group that is absolutely in need of a focus and that one discusses how one can get the offer to work better and more seamlessly. It has sometimes been in the media that the situation is unsustainable both for those who have received ALS and for their relatives. There are several people who have shown that we've got a brain health strategy, and a lot of what it says, think I'm concrete measures that probably many people would appreciate if it worked after the intention. It is the proposal to have interdisciplinary teams that can leave, that one can have a permanent neurologist, that one has a specialist health service that serves the municipalities, and that takes responsibility when a municipality does not have the competence itself, that one gets a coordinator that actually acts as a coordinator, and that one also acquires more competence at all stages of this disease and its patients' needs. Last June, I asked the Council of State whether he and the government would secure the financing and development of an own ALS register, as a necessary commitment to ensuring patients throughout the country the best possible and equal treatment arrangements, preferably on the same template as the Swedish register to ensure the possibility of cross-border cooperation. I got an answer to that. Now, perhaps the Council of State will be able to comment on that in its reply. The problem is that at present there is no national register that can provide us with information on the number of people, the type of treatment they receive, knowledge of the course of the disease and how it is in different parts of the country. I have been aware that the neurological department in St. Olav's hospital has started developing such a register with its own resources, but the register development stopped because there were not enough funds. I don't think so. I asked a question in December 2018 about a very difficult topic, and it was also on the basis of a media lookup. It was a trick to have enough processes around the ethical requirement when deciding when to terminate respirator treatment. The case that arose in the media, a patient with an ALS in which the hospital decided that one should discontinue respiratory therapy, despite the wishes of the patient and the relatives. It was a very difficult thing. It turned out that one was not good enough in hospitals to use the clinical ethics committee regularly in such situations. It's unlikely that one of the specialists in the field of medicine is drooling at exactly these decisions, so that one feels cared for as a patient and as a relative. Many people have been shown to be able to develop national guidelines or other measures to ensure that there is a good and at the same time as possible. There are a number of national guidelines, including: the one I referred to in my question, on ‘National Guide to Long-Term Mechanical Ventilation’. But the question is, with this guide and others, not whether we have guides, but whether they're actually familiar, whether they're being implemented, that's, that those who work in the services know about them, and that one has resources to follow them up. This is about resources, but also about competence. I think it is positive what the Minister for Health has said about a working group. I agree that, to the extent that it is the same whether there is a package trajectory or a new policy, but what is important is that this actually leads to a difference outside the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1149	A family I know well, lost one of their closest to ALS a few years ago. There was a low-level atmosphere associated with getting such a diagnosis. It's brutal, and it's fast. There are not many ALS-sick people who can talk about their own business. They're too sick, and they die too fast. That is why it is all the more important that we politicians raise their voices for this vulnerable group. Patient, relatives and politicians must play on the same team. ALS is a disease that typically affects younger people, aged 40–60 years. Many of them have children. An ALS diagnosis thus affects the whole family, and therefore the whole family needs help to deal with both grief and shock. It requires far more than a brochure in the hand of the hospital. ALS is not a common disease, although more and more people are affected, and it may take several years between each time a municipality should care for patients and families affected by ALS. For these patients, it is important that healthcare is shown from the very best of all. Interaction between the municipality and the hospital must work optimally. The representative Sylvi Listhaug took up the fight against the system in his post, and we have to make everyday life easier for people who are serious and chronically ill. An example is health care, which makes it easier for patients who get worse, so that they do not have to go through a heavy bureaucracy, for example to get a parking card for people with reduced mobility. I hope that a health care system is something that the Council of State can take with him when he now looks at how to make everyday life easier for serious and chronically ill people. Finally, I would like to join the representatives who have said that this is a debate in which we shall stand together. There has been a fine and low-level political debate on this issue, and it gives me optimism in view of the fact that we are going to get something for the group that sits and is following this important debate today. So I want to thank both the interpellant, who took up the theme on the Parliament's pulpit, and the Council of State for the answers he has given so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1160	I was unable to sit calm and listen to this debate. I have a history as a health politician from the previous period, and we also discussed the offer to this patient group. So I want to give credit to the representative Listhaug, who picks up the thread and fights for them that we almost expect more from than the healthy and employees who work in the sector. This cannot be the case: those who receive this serious diagnosis relatively quickly must find out on their own with their relatives. The representative of Listhaug used two concrete examples from Uppland: Dovre and Ostre Toten municipalities. I know both the examples and the municipalities. They are different in size, but are also known for having good health services for their citizens. But the representative also mentioned Solås, which the Hospital of the Inland have owned in recent years. In the past, the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association owned that offer. I think we should also include it in the discussion, because such resource centres that Solås represents, I think is an important part of the answer for the future. It represents an important offer to the patient, it is both education, mastering and treatment, and to the relatives it is a relief. And that Solås offer we have had to fight almost every year to keep the Inland Hospital. So this is an ongoing struggle for the resources that don't find each other, and then we almost send the patients into the war. So those guidelines are obviously necessary to get in place, but we also need to discuss a little place and pool of resources, because I don't think we should expect municipalities that are as different in terms of size and offers as those we have today to be able to come up with an offer to patient groups of which there are more and more. We see a specialist health service that treats more and more of the special, but does not have the long-term responsibility for care and rehabilitation. And then we have to discuss both ownership and which actors will stand for it and keep the patient in touch during this period, when it fails a little bit both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. An ALS register has also been requested for several years, so I hope it will come into place. But I also want to focus on more Nordic cooperation. Here it is important to cooperate on both research, development and medicine, and I think it is a well-suited area for more Nordic cooperation, because it is largely about relatively few patient groups, but that we have a lot in common, and it seems that we are quite similar in the Nordic countries. So here, too, I think there's something we can pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1172	I would like to thank all those who have participated in this discussion, for their contributions, and I think it is very good that everyone agrees that we have to do something for this group. Then the most important thing is that it actually goes from this hall down into the system, so that every person who gets this terrible disease is met with the respect they deserve. They should not be viewed as a burden and feel that the better it is before they die. They will be seen as people who will receive all the help and support that it is possible to give in the short time that very many of these live. I fully agree with the Minister of Health when he says that hospitals must help municipalities build skills. There's a very big difference here that the Minister of Health was in. Some are large and may have more cases, some are small and have more cases, while others have no cases and suddenly get a patient with very large needs to deal with. Then we have to make sure that they get the support they need, including from the hospitals. I would like to thank the Minister of Health for the initiative he is now taking. I'm incredibly happy that a job is being started. These patients have no time to lose. That is why I hope that the Minister of Health is as impatient as I am after the work is going to start, and that we work quickly, so that we can put in routines that are simply better, and systems that take care of these patients, who are in a very difficult situation, and that we also take care of everyone around, who experiences the worst nightmare of life when they get this disease in the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1181	I would like to thank the interpellant once again for addressing this important question, which was a good opportunity to start such a work. I would also like to thank the other participants in the discussion. This is an area where one sees that there is cross-political agreement that one has to do something, and one also has many of the same descriptions of the situation. What I'm most concerned about, is that the work we're now doing, is actually going to lead to a change out in practice. In my post I explained too much work that is going on, or that is going to get started. It's important and good, but what we depend on in this area is also finding a form of work that makes us succeed in making a change in practice. Several have mentioned the need for a quality register. A request for the ALS registry has received a positive assessment and will be further worked on as part of a common neuroregister. The Health Directorate grants national status to quality records following an application from regional health establishments. This is a work that's going on. As I said in my post, there is also a lot of positive about the research area, but the individual patient and the family live their lives here and now, and then it's important that we get changes in the way you meet both the first time you get the diagnosis, and in all the important meetings afterwards with the different parts of the healthcare system. As the Swedish poet said, we shall all die one day, but every other day we shall live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1192	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1208	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of a reply of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1217	Today, we are going to be there to secure the future of Norway. Billions of dollars will be invested, thousands of jobs will be set up, new technologies will be created, and revenues for kindergartens, schools, elderly care and road construction will be ensured. The development and operation of the Johan Sverdrup field, phase 2, shall be adopted today. Yes, it is not many times that projects are so large and large that they have to be adopted in several rounds. Norway is – and will be – an oil and gas nation for many decades to come. Thanks to the Johan Sverdrup field alone, Norway will earn billions annually over the next decades, and the worker who will turn off the light on Johan Sverdrup is probably not yet born. This is a fantastic project, which Norwegian technology, Norwegian competence and Norwegian knowledge will realise in such a way that the left-wing man Johan Sverdrup would be proud today. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation and proposals, which have led to the document we are discussing here today. The Johan Sverdrup field is so large that it is expanded in several steps. The first stage of construction was adopted in 2015. The field was found in 2010. The first stage of construction is now in a final phase, and it is already planned to start during the year. It has been fast, but it has been an extremely important project for the industry, as this came in a very demanding period for the Norwegian petroleum sector. The project is expected to have an employment effect of 150000 yearly works between 2015 and 2025. Expected extractable reserves in the Johan Sverdrup field are 2.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent, of which 590 million barrels of oil equivalent are linked to Phase 2. Expected development cost is estimated at 42 billion. kr. This is a construction step that is profitable even at an oil price of $19 per barrel. During the review of the first stage of construction, an area solution was provided for power from land to cover the full power requirements of the fields Johan Sverdrup, Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. The site-release plan for land-based power was submitted together with the PUD by other construction steps in the Johan Sverdrup field, and these are dealt with together. The area solution plan includes a 200 MW installation. This, together with the power from the land site from the first stage of construction, will mean a total of 300 MW of power from land available at Johan Sverdrup Field Centre. This is sufficient to cover the entire expected power demand of the four fields. This leads to costs of approx. 14 B.C.E. kr and will reduce the CO 2 emissions by 625000 tonnes in the Johan Sverdrup field. This is a large cost per tonne of CO 2. Whether it is the best investment to achieve climate change reduction should not be said, but the calculation will be better when the remaining fields are linked. However, it also means cutting the use of natural gas on Norwegian soil, thereby releasing more gas, which can help Europe reduce its emissions. What's another important part of the debate is the situation that arises in Haugaland in the light of this electrification. There are major plans for growth in the power-intensive industry, and when we now use up available capacity in the Johan Sverdrup field, new industrial projects will lead to extensive actions on the power grid. I agree with the concerns raised by the LO during the hearing in the case, that industrial projects in this area may be charged with plant contributions that could threaten the realisation of such projects. Finally, a few words about the Johan Castberg field and landing. I am very happy that someone does not make a decision now on the basis that you have today. Then there is every reason to believe that it had been a negative result for Finnmark. It is good that a person now spends some more time, gets a better basis, especially when one at the same time sees that it is possible to have a progress plan that can bring about a completion in good time before the start of production in the Johan Castberg field. Petroleum activity in the Barents Sea has already had major local ring-effects. With some kind of terminal solution on land, it would have been even more enhanced. Now we have to trust that more exploration in the Barents Sea will produce results that can facilitate the realisation of a terminal in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1244	As Mr Halleland quite rightly said, phase 2 of the Johan Sverdrup field is a very large project. It will have very long-term and favourable economic consequences for Norway for many years to come, and it is important here, as in other major oil and gas projects, to ensure that the ring effects are both national and regional. It's also very important when you go into such a big project, that we make sure that we do it in a timely way, that we look ahead, and that we make sure that what we now know, both about the future and what technology is possible, is applied as far as you can. I am therefore concerned that it is ensured that this project finds the very best low-emission solutions. I am glad that it is added to the electrical and power from land. It is also very important to use in this project the possibility of looking to future zero vision in terms of emissions during production. We all know that most of the oil and gas emissions occur when used, but it does not exempt us from using the possibilities we have to make the production that happens as clean and environmentally friendly as possible. That's right in terms of climate policy, and in the long run it's also good for the industry to take that responsibility and be that responsibility conscious. I want to acknowledge the signals that came from the operator Equinor not long ago, on this matter of stress testing all major projects against the Paris Agreement, and also reaching the 1.5 degree target. We see that a number of the big oil companies look at themselves as not only oil and gas companies in the future, but also as energy companies. This vision of further development and a transformation for the future is also important when discussing this major project. We have had broad agreement and broad disintegration on oil and gas policy in Norway for very many years. It is good for a small country and a large sector. It's important that we can bring that consensus with us, but also that that consensus backs up the things we now know about the transition we're facing, not least in the light of international climate commitments and the need to have an increasingly clear awareness of this. Then I'd like to say a few words about the Johan Castberg field. There has been a very large pressure from this hall and from the majority decision last year, which allowed a very clear lead in landing on Vednes. It is stated in the Decision that this is to be done ‘latest by the establishment of several producing fields in the Barents Sea [[...]] The parts of the country that have served the most in the oil and gas industry over the past 50 years have done so because it has been good – since the early 1970s – to ensure that income is not only to the benefit of the Kingdom of Norway, but also of the counties, towns and neighbourhoods. It must also apply in the north. That's why we're very busy stressing that point, and that we confirm and maintain the pressure expressed by the majority last year. Finally, I would also like to mention that we, from the Workers' Party's side, are concerned that there should be as much transparency as possible around environmental studies. Society in general expects increased transparency, but also the increasingly clear debate that we have – and will have – about climate and petroleum requires it. In addition, we believe that it would be a good idea to investigate the competitive situation on a Norwegian base. I have colleagues who will get closer to it. I just want to highlight that there are also important input from our side in this debate. I would like to address the proposal on which the Workers' Party is involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1263	The representative Espen Barth Eide has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1268	Today, we will finally adopt the development and operation of other construction steps for the Johan Sverdrup field, one of Norway’s – and probably also one of Europe’s – largest industrial projects. Given the importance of oil industry for our country in the last 50 years, the whole Johan Sverdrup field is a new chapter in the history of continued growth and wealth growth, and not least of industrial development. We will also adopt an area solution on Kårstø in Rogaland, which will bring power from land to both Johan Sverdrup and the surrounding fields Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. It's a formidable bet, and I think many remember the scepticism that was part of this debate in its time. Some thought that electrification would only lead to increased emissions beyond the borders of Norway, and in Haugaland we feared that the region simply did not have enough power for future energy-intensive projects. According to Statnett, which is also planning new power lines for the area, we are going to have to do that precisely in view of the needs of the region in the future. Johan Sverdrup was connected to power supply from land as early as last October, but power from land should cover the full power demand of these fields from 2022, when phase 2 of the Sverdrup field is complete. This means that we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-90 pst. compared to a standard expansion with gas turbines. We are also going to follow up a request decision that deals with oil transhipment in Finnmark, as a result of the discussion of the Johan Castberg case last year. There is a proposition that deals with two issues, where both are important for people who need work and income in order to care for themselves and their families, because this is also about what people should live on, and how we should safeguard our well-being. Production in the Johan Sverdrup field is expected to start as early as this year, and with the resources we expect to take out over the entire lifetime of the field, it is our most important industrial project in Norway over the next 50 years. Income is expected for the state and society of more than 900 billion. During this period, this is money spent by Norway to maintain schools, hospitals, police, public transport and road construction. Yes, this is money that helps to maintain today's welfare arrangements for us who are so lucky to live here. This is also money that enables us to push ahead with research and technology development, which is crucial for, among other things. reducing emissions from the petroleum industry and in order to develop and convert us into greener industries. Yes, we know that the oil will slow down, but it will not be stopped tomorrow, and we need both the jobs and the income that this industry gives us, for many years yet. It is therefore still important for new fields to be discovered and new production fields to be established. In this context, I would also like to highlight the importance of predictability of the light fusion system, which has led to increased exploration activity since it was introduced in 2005, and it is probably also this scheme that has made Johan Sverdrup discover. I am very pleased that ESA has recently confirmed that the exploration fusion system is not selective. There is a system available to all companies in the same way and it does not involve State aid. Let me also comment on point IV of the Committee's recommendation, which asks for an independent evaluation of the competitive situation on Norwegian soil. This point is not supported by the government parties in this context, but we refer to the investigation of the competitive situation on Norwegian pedestal and the prospects for the Norwegian supplier industry, which was mentioned in this year's government budget. As regards oil transhipment in Finnmark and Stortinget's request decision on the possibility of a reduced terminal at Veidnes, we have a great deal of understanding of the promise that people in Finnmark felt they were given, and we are awaiting a decision base to come here. We must not forget what the oil industry has meant to the Norwegian people, what a wonderful journey of prosperity our generation has been on. It has contributed to emissions that we could not foresee at the time, but in addition, this industry must also be part of the solution to reduce emissions – not only in Norway, because it also enables us to contribute to reducing emissions in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1289	As many people here have been involved, this is a major project, in fact the largest industrial project in Norway in decades. I would first like to say that the broad political majority, which for nearly 50 years has been behind the objectives and framework conditions of the industry, has given us stable and predictable conditions that Norway currently enjoys very well. Predictability is also becoming important in the future in order to ensure industry's future, not least at a time when the oil and gas industry is going through a significant shift to the low-carbon society. It is important that the industry continues to take responsibility and is a leader in the production of low-carbon oil and gas and low-carbon emissions, while at the same time helping to demand that the industry continue to develop new technologies that contribute to less emissions. It will be crucial from both a cost and a competitive perspective and that Norwegian oil and gas remain relevant as an energy supplier in the coming years. An example of such technology development is carbon capture and storage. Success is a prerequisite for us to succeed in limiting global warming. Norway took an early lead in this area and is uniquely positioned to be a leader in this technology, which also has a high potential for new jobs and a high international potential. The centre party is concerned that the government has repeatedly delayed the process and uncertainty about the implementation of the CCS projects. If Norway continues to have a leading role in the development of these projects, it is essential that we receive a clear and predictable priority from the government on the part of these projects. For the Centre Party, it is also important that we demand that the industry contribute to the creation of more local jobs, especially in North Norway. Therefore, it will now be important in further work to give priority to a terminal solution at Veidnes in Finnmark. We are looking forward to the Storting getting a case to deal with just this, as the proposition warns. It will therefore be essential to have a rapid and orderly procedure by the government in this matter, and to follow up the Stortinge's objective that "these must be seen in the context of Johan Castberg and the construction of a landing terminal at Veidnes in Finnmark, not later than when several producing areas were set up in the Barents Sea".
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1302	On 22 March, 40,000 students went to the streets for far greater cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. Young people no longer think that generation after generation of adults are ruining their future. Many politicians, including in this Chamber, honoured the commitment of young people. One of the demands of school youth was the suspension of new permits for the oil industry. The reason is obvious: first, the world has found too much fossil energy to burn everything. The global temperature will then rise sharply, and the climate crisis will be a fact. Secondly, no other industry has grown as rapidly in its emissions as the Norwegian oil and gas industry. In the years since we received the first serious warnings from the world's leading climate scientists, emissions from the Norwegian oil industry have increased by nearly 80 pst. To start action now that extends the oil age is to gamble with the future, and it is to make a bet against the world reaching its climate goals. Unfortunately, the majority in this Chamber is willing to do so. They're giving the climate-stripping kids a slap on their shoulders, but they're turning their backs on as soon as they make their demands. It was a big victory when a few years ago we got an impact on the electrification of Johan Sverdrup and the other fields in the area, but if we are to manage to cut the emissions enough to avoid a very serious climate crisis, it does not keep making the oil extraction a little cleaner. We need to shift to renewable energy sources. But I'm hoping, because I think the oil debate in Norway can now have a new spring. In any case, when we have now cleared the issue of oil activities outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and Senja, we can seriously address other important aspects of the Norwegian oil policy, such as the question of how favourable economic arrangements the oil industry should have. At a time when more and more countries are working to free themselves from fossil energy, we have to realize that the great age of gold for the oil industry is on the verge. Fossil energy needs to be – and will be – less profitable when the world is working to achieve its climate goals. There is today a heated debate on Norwegian oil extraction, including: in our northernmost regions. Many of us woke up today to the news of environmental activists who took up a search rig outside Hammerfest in Finnmark. They are protesting – for good reason – against Norway’s plans for oil extraction more and more north. On the other side of the globe, too, protests against the oil thirst of Norwegian companies. Equinor’s oil drilling plans in what is referred to as Australia’s Lofoten have met with great protests. If we don't listen to the demands of climate-stripping young people, we'll see more of this in the future as well. With that, I take up the proposal that SV has with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1317	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1322	I am very pleased that we have a renewed debate on energy in Norway. But that red-green side completely agrees on that energy, we've seen a lot of examples that they're not, just in the last year. There has been a great debate on foreign tables, there is a great debate now on windmills. So we have to make this balance and jump. This means that we should take down and phase out an oil and gas business that – as the representative Haltbrecken says – is too large internationally, but we also need to take into account a situation where the Norwegian economy is largely dependent on the oil and gas economy. As the representative Sandra Borch said: this is also a debate on where to get a share of the good in Norway. We also have a debate on the districts in Norway. The centre party seems to be investing too much in central areas, but here it is Hammerfest, Harstad and the northern part of North Norway that get the effects of the big investments happening here. Then, of course, we need to take into account what young people constantly remind us: we need to use fewer fossil resources, and we need to use more renewables. However, Norway is also the holder of a yellow conduction shirt in terms of electrification. We've spent 15 years getting to where we've come from in terms of electric car policy, and for the first time, an electric car is the most sold in Norway. Now we're doing the same thing in green shipping. But we actually also do the same with the socket – we electrify a lot of Norwegian socket. It is for the Left a stage victory that we now get electrified the Johan Sverdrup field, but later on also the fields Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. In addition, we have received a climate risk assessment that shows that the state also has to take less economic risk. It's not just the climate that is exposed to a significant risk in the activity we're doing. Fossil energy shall be eliminated from the investment of the oil fund. If we have also done something about the Snow White field and have replaced the energy supply to Sleipner, we have done a great cut over time. There are also opportunities to use the knowledge we have from oil and gas to new, green industries, such as sea winds, which can also contribute to further electrification of the base, which is a large-scale industrial building, with knowledge from the oil and gas sectors. Then it won't be like that in the future that "stable" means "without changes". «Long-term» does not always mean «as it is now». So recognising the petroleum industry as one of the most important industries in Norway does not mean that it gets to live without interference with demands. That's what we're doing here today, making new demands to convert and develop a sector, while also developing others and creating substitutes. One dimension that has not been mentioned here is geopolitical. The Barents Sea is of great interest to Norway — being present in an area where new opportunities are opening up, unfortunately also a little based on climate change, where seabeds and ice resources are emerging. It is important that we assert our interests also in those areas, and that, in cooperation with Russia, we can develop new environmentally friendly, climate friendly, technology, and not put ourselves on the sideline in the future where someone can absorb resources that appear. The innovation we are developing has been put into practice in increasingly new sectors, and we must continue to do so until we have built new renewable industrial solutions, and also to implement them in other sectors, such as health, to which we have now seen good transitions. There is also an emerging debate on the tax regime and the system of readmission. Clearly, it is paradoxical that gas turbines are part of the scheme, while sea wind turbines do not. So we have something to do in the future to make sure that those instruments play together. But we have a track record and a CV that shows that we're taking the steps forward, and that we're keeping the speed up to 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1343	There are two major extensions that we are now debating, in this preposition that lies ahead here. These are issues that have been discussed many times in the Storting and that there has been great attention around also in other settings through the Storing-Government dialogue earlier. Much of the background is that this is among the major electrifications on the Norwegian base, and that it can cut large emissions, as it would have happened if these installations had been powered by gas turbines. When the Stortinget deals with the first part of Johan Sverdrup's construction, make an important decision at that time, in the call-up decision, saying that for the Johan Sverdrup field – in conjunction with the second construction step, which has planned to start at the latest in 2022 – an area solution must be established for power from land that will be able to meet the full power needs of Johan Sverdrup, Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. It's an important decision, which makes sure that there's a major electrification here. Later, there has been a lot of attention around one of those installations, namely the Edvard Grieg installation. It is now apparent from the proposition that there is no good reason not to install boilers, which means that one can also meet the heat demand by force from land. That's good news. It is important that you do this properly, so that you make a right decision in the justice group. Equinor has already ordered its electric boilers, and on the listener it was found that there is enough power and capacity to work on complying with the decision that the Stortinget has made, and that must be done in a good way. It is also exciting to see that there are fields in close association with old gas turbines that stand and go, but where the electrical solution chosen for this area solution also suggests that one can carry out the partial electrification, which Equinor also said there was enough capacity available when they met the Committee on this matter. This is good news for the Norwegian supplier industry, which also has top competence on the Elektjel side. When it comes to the Johan Castberg field, there are also great expectations and a political drive in this room. There is much about the expectations that the operator himself has created for the ringing effects that this type of expansion will give. This is about finding solutions that are good also for Finnmark and that show that the oil industry is able to create jobs and value creation also locally. Governments have taken good action, with which I feel that one is pleased, based on the decisions taken by the Storting. But one is also required to continue working in a proper and good way to ensure that the decisions taken on the establishment of later fields associated with the Barents Sea are followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1357	If we are to limit climate change to a level that we can live with, greenhouse gas emissions need to go down to zero by 2050. If we're going to make it, the world has to stop burning coal, oil and gas. It's that simple and so difficult. Yes, it is so difficult that it has become common to claim that pumping up Norwegian oil and gas helps cut emissions globally. And politicians in this room lend themselves uncritically to arguments from the industry itself for how the globe will need exactly our fossil reserves, the fossil reserves that we control, the fossil reserves that we earn money on. It is also from here that if we in Norway leave our oil and gas, other countries will increase their production of more polluting energy, of more dirty oil and even of more coal. However, smaller Norwegian gas exports are becoming less likely to increase the production and consumption of coal in the years to come. On the contrary, today there are suns and batteries, and also winds, which are more often competitive with fossil energy. Large parts of Europe also say the opposite of what Norwegian oil and gas industries now say. According to a recent study commissioned by European energy companies, gas demand in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium and the United Kingdom will fall as much as 16 pst. the next ten years. But today we can actually leave the gas myth, because the Johan Sverdrup field contains almost no gas. There is almost a clean oil field this hall today cheers that we are going to put the suction pipe in. There is no doubt here: ten of Norway’s leading social and resource economists published in the summer of an article stressing that cutting in Norwegian oil production would clearly lead to net climate change emissions internationally, also adjusted for any increased use of other fossil energy. The world electrifies. There are no compromises with the climate crisis. It's not a political actor. We're dealing with physics. If we're going to cut emissions, we're going to prevent ten million more people going on flight, as the UN estimates in the latest report, the 1.5 degree report, which we were served in October, we're going to have to extract and burn less oil. Johan Sverdrup is the fifth largest oil field in Norway history. The field will produce oil far into the 2070s, estimated at as much as 2.7 billion in total. If it's burned, it's going to emit an incredible 1.3 billion tons of CO2. This corresponds to 25 times Norway’s total annual emissions today, or in another way: it corresponds to the annual emissions of 650 million passenger cars. These are emissions that Norway has to take responsibility for. That is why I believe that today's decision to approve the extension of the phase two of the Johan Sverdrup field is the largest generation branch as this Stortinget does this decade. On 22 March, 40 000 Norwegian young people were fighting for a more radical climate policy, demanding that new projects of oil production be stopped. Tomorrow, the government will meet representatives of the school strikers to listen. But the day before, the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Center are adopting the opposite of what young people want, and what the world needs. In everyday speech, that's what behavior is called hypocrisy. The largest social project in Norway is now the transition from an oil smoldering economy to more green jobs. The fantastic economic buffer in this transition that the oil fund has given us, we still have in the future if we just take care to manage that fund responsibly. If the emissions are going to be zero in 2050, we can't expand oil fields to pump oil into 2070. Norway has these fossil reserves. We are the ones who can, and we are the ones who have to leave them. Therefore, the Greens say a clear and clear no to the further development of Johan Sverdrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1377	Will the representative make proposals from the Greens/Greens/EFA?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1382	Yes, I address the proposal on which we stand alone, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1387	The representative of Une Bastholm then put forward the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1392	Norway is the world's seventh largest petroleum producer, and what we export from oil and gas accounts for ten times higher greenhouse gas emissions in the world than all our emissions here at home. We must leave two thirds of the world's known petroleum resources in the ground to avoid climate disaster. It is the backstop that Stortinget is today deciding whether we are going to produce oil and gas that gives emissions equivalent to up to 25 times the annual Norwegian emissions. When oil and gas from the Johan Sverdrup field are burned, it can generate emissions of about 1.3 billion tonnes of CO 2. We're going to have a 50-year operation on the platform, more than 20 years after we're going to be a low-emission society. It means that we should not expand any more oil fields. Emissions of greenhouse gases have real consequences here and now. Many link the large forest fires we see in our country to climate change. Longer periods of drought, more undergrowth and more wind increase the risk of forest fires, and heavy rains increase the risk of floods, which we have also seen in recent years. The costs are great, although in Norway we are largely so lucky that human lives are not lost in these events. But it's different elsewhere in the world. Firestorms in countries like Greece, Portugal and the United States took many lives last year. The number and power of storms and rainfalls with subsequent floods and landslides is increasing to an extent. Last six months, at least a thousand people have lost their lives following floods in the Philippines, Indonesia, Italy and the Idai cyclone, followed by floods in Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi. This is the situation today, and with increased emissions, the situation will be more dramatic than what we already see around us. Other construction steps for the Johan Sverdrup field require investments of over 40 billion. kr. Instead, we should invest in ways that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and build future jobs. These investments will only be profitable in the future if the world and Norway fail to avoid climate disaster. We can't have a policy that assumes that it can happen. It is neither good for the climate nor for the workers who pay the price when it is not as profitable as many analysts today suggest. Red believes that we should not use electricity from land to Norwegian base. Electricity cuts emissions from production, but when the same gas is sold, global accounts go to zero. This means that lower emissions in production will not result in lower emissions when oil and gas are incinerated. The fact that we are spending billions on climate policies that do not reduce emissions globally, we believe that we are completely wrong. If it is to be electrified, it has to be done with sea wind, in order to develop something that we can live on in the future, and that can become an important Norwegian export industry. The power cables to supply the oil platforms weaken the security of supply of the Norwegian industry and thus also the basis for the industries we are going to live on the day the oil age ends. Today's government and the Workers' Party later as if industrial policy were the same as continued oil and gas extraction. We disagree on this – along with the many thousands who work in the power-intensive industry, in the food industry and in other important manufacturing companies. The billions used to gamble on the continuing climate crisis should rather have gone to building alternatives to this by strengthening the industries we already have and building new ones where the expertise of today's petroleum industry can be exploited to the maximum. That's why Red is going to vote against other construction steps for Johan Sverdrup. How we would rather use the funds, we have said some about in our proposal for an industrial green and fair revolution, which will be dealt with in the Storting this spring. And with that background, I take up Red's two suggestions on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1412	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposals he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1417	The discovery, expansion and upcoming production from the Johan Sverdrup field is a new chapter in our oil history. The deployment phase has provided tens of thousands of continental annual works and has helped to maintain jobs and competences in Norway's most remote industry. The first stage of construction of the field is the start of production later this year. The field will account for a large part of the oil production in the next decade. That's going to be $900 billion. kr in the treasury. In addition, large revenues and significant employment in Norwegian enterprises are generated during the development and operation phase. The field will also produce oil efficiently, with very low emissions, including CO 2. I would like to thank the case rapporteur and the Committee for a position in which a broad majority is in favour of approving the development plans, because Sverdrup is a fantastic project. It is the largest industrial project in Norway in decades, with a staggering investment of about 140 billion. kr. The national employment effects of only the deployment phase of the Sverdrup field are intended for more than 150000 annual works. Large investments are made to limit emissions on the Norwegian base. With other construction steps also comes an area solution for power from land to the fields Johan Sverdrup, Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. In addition to the Sverdrup field producing very low emissions, the area solution will also mean significant emission reductions from the fields Grieg, Aasen and Krog in relation to the current situation when connected. The area solution has sufficient capacity to cover the entire power demand of these four fields, but the solution also has additional capacity that can allow other fields to be supplied with power from land. A process is now in progress between companies to ensure optimum use of this area solution. As announced in the proposition, I will keep Stortinget informed about the further work in this area. Sverdrup development and all its positive ring-effects are the result of a long-term, stable and active oil and gas policy led by a large majority in this room, a policy that focuses on predictable framework conditions, access to attractive exploration space and investment in research and development. Furthermore, there is a policy that contributes to the continued leadership of the activity on Norwegian soil in the world of safe and efficient low-emission oil and gas activities, enabling the Norwegian supplier industry to continue to be internationally competitive and to maintain good co-existence with other users of the seas, such as Norway. fisheries. In June 2018, in the context of Stortinget's examination of the plans for the Johan Castberg field, the majority took two request decisions relating to oil transhipment in Finnmark. The Ministry of Oil and Energy imposed conditions for the approval of the Castberg field linked to the follow-up to these request decisions. I have followed up the decisions in the proposition with the expansion of the second construction steps of the Sverdrup field. Equinor, an operator of the Castberg field, has been studying alternative oil transfer solutions in Finnmark since the summer of 2018. This is an important project that is being carefully worked on. As I have said earlier in this Chamber, no conclusions have yet been drawn, and it has not been decided that a scaled-down terminal should not be built on the Weidnes. The studies are still ongoing, and I want to keep Stortinget informed about the further investigation by the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1440	I found with pleasure that the Council of State finally said that he would maintain pressure on this case with landing on Veidnes, and that no negative decision was taken, that is, that it should not happen. But I should like to hear a little bit more from the Council of State about how he will ensure that the company sticks to the expectations expressed by a majority in this Chamber. I would also like to ask whether the Council of State agrees that, at a time of increasing debate on Norwegian oil and gas activities, it is particularly important to take care of those parts of the country where there is still an upsurge in this industry, and that this may also be attributed to a certain weight both by the government and by the companies concerned in the further discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1445	Let there be no doubt: the Castberg construction of 47 billion. There will be major ring-effects for Norway as a nation. 47 000 annual works in the construction phase are planned and 1 700 annual works in the operational phase. For North Norway, 470 annual works have been calculated in the exploitation phase, where more than half of these people are expected to have shelters in North Troms and Finnmark. I've said it before, and I'm just repeating it: it's not decided not to build a terminal. The project works well, and it is expected that a decision will be made in the third quarter of this year, which has also been announced earlier. I'll keep the Storting informed about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1452	In a comment from the majority minus SV, it says: ‘This majority expects the Council of State to inform the Storting about the matter in an appropriate manner.’ For me as a Finnmarking and for the Workers' Party, "appropriate way" is only one thing, and that is that the matter has to go back to Stortinget. It is incredibly important for the perception of our northernmost country in terms of the ring-effects and that that kind of expansion should provide jobs locally. Does the Minister agree that it is Stortinget who will decide how Johan Castberg will operate, or will it just be a briefing from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1465	The debate around Castberg is very understanding. That there are expectations of ring effects, I take as a positive sign that the activity generated by the petroleum industry is actually wanted. I can stress that I have registered, with pleasure, that it definitely applies to Finnmark as well. I have explained in the proposition how this is followed up. What I can mention is that it works well. No decision has been made not to build a scaled-down terminal. There's going to be a decision about what kind of solution you fall into, in the third quarter. I'm going to do what I've said; I'm going to inform the Storting appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1470	An important part of this matter is also the electrification of Edvard Grieg. In response to some questions raised by the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the Council of State said, inter alia. that the Greek field operator, Lundin Norway AS, informs that the schedule is fixed and that a final decision can be made to install such electric boilers in 2019/2020 so that they can be in place for the area solution to be put into operation in 2022. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do if Lundin makes a decision not to install electric boilers in the Edvard Grieg field? If so, what does he do if such a decision to install electric boilers is not taken in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1478	Then I'm going to underline what's actually in the proposition, what's mentioned in the proposition. It states that current knowledge indicates that, in the case of Grieg, electrical boilers shall be installed prior to the entry into service of the area solution. Capacity is, as you know, greater than the need for Sverdrup, Grieg, Krog and Aasen notified as their needs in the planning phase. It is therefore important to optimise the use of this capacity in order to maximise the reduction of Norwegian capped CO 2 emissions at the lowest socio-economic cost. The company's work on this is – as I was briefed on – in an early phase, and I will brief the Storting if this is not going to go as it is outlined here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1490	I am well aware of what the proposition says, and that today's knowledge suggests that these electric boilers should be installed, but nevertheless the Council of State responds to the committee that a decision on this will only be taken by the oil company Lundin during 2019 or 2020. That means then that Lundin can make a decision not to install such electric boilers, or they can make a decision too late, so they can't do this when the range solution is going to be in operation. My question from instead is, What will the Council of State do to the oil company Lundin? Will he just brief the Storting about that not happening, or will he actually do something to ensure that these emission reductions come into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1497	All right, first of all, I'm just referring to what I just said. What Mr Haltbrecken is asking about has not happened, and there are indications of the approval being given, as to the type of solutions to be chosen. I think we have mentioned this quite appropriately in the proposition. The point must be, I hope, that the final solutions that are being chosen have one goal, and that is that the power that we have available is being used to minimise greenhouse gas emissions, CO 2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1505	A few years ago, I was in a process where we were to phase Goliath into Finnmark. There were great expectations for that project, and we had hopes for a lot of jobs in Finnmark. I think most of us know that it wasn't the great success for jobs in Finnmark. But what was a very important theme then was preparedness in the Barents Sea. It is known that there may not be enough readiness for an oil spill to happen — how far have you come to work to find more suitable equipment in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1510	In the case of preparedness in the Barents Sea, any oilfield receiving its authorisation of authority is also required to use the best available technology. It also happens in this area. And let there be no doubt that strict safety requirements are being imposed on companies in terms of both emissions to air and sea in order for them to operate on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1515	It's pretty controversial today to start a new huge expansion of an oil field. This is where the big disagreement lies in the oil debate in Norway today – precisely about the big, new projects, i.e. new investments and new exploration. There is no one in Stortinget today who wants to shut down the oil taps, the productions we already have, overnight. The Johan Sverdrup field knows we're going to go – or we think it's going to go – until the 2070s. Part of the background here is that Finnish and German economists have just published a report saying that a transition to 100 pst. renewable energy by 2050 is fully feasible if there is political will in countries. My question to the Council of State is whether he can say about how much of the energy mix in the world he sees that the oil will be in the 2050–2060–2070s.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1522	In any case, what I can say from the Parliament's Chair today is that our contribution to the Paris Agreement is based on the fact that we are still going to have an active petroleum policy. The treatment of the proposition today shows that there is also broad support in this room. Norway produces about 2 pst. the consumption of oil by the world, and there is no basis for claiming that a politically determined restriction on the production of Norwegian cap oil will contribute to lower greenhouse gas emissions. What we know is that such a policy, if implemented, will bring much lower incomes to the welfare community while undermining thousands of important jobs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1527	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1534	I refer to the issue of the extension and operation of the Johan Castberg field with the status of the oil and gas business, Innst. 368 S for 2017-2018. The decision was clear – a decision on the final clearance relating to the operation of the Johan Castberg field was to return to Stortinget and be decided in the same big deal. Today's setting responds only to ship-to-ships and not to a scaled-down terminal. The decision relating to the downstream terminal will be ready in the third quarter. It is essential to state that this decision is to be returned to the Stortingen for final decision. It is Stortinget who will decide how Johan Castberg will operate. It's neither for the boardrooms nor for the department to decide such a thing. I would like to remind the assembly that the then Statoil had a big party at Veidnes on 12 February 2013 to celebrate that Johan Castberg was to be landed there. I was there. I know what optimism it brought to the municipality of Nordkapp. It's been over six years. It's been over six years since Statoil created expectations in Finnmark, and there's no doubt that the population feels cheated. This must be taken seriously by Stortinget. The attitude towards oil and gas activities has changed dramatically in Finnmark, not least after what we have experienced related to broken promises. It is the oil and gas industry of Equinor that is responsible for it. Finnmark has one requirement for the petroleum industry: this activity must have ring-effects in terms of workplaces locally – workplaces. Workplaces will be if it becomes a terminal. That's what we expect when the resources are picked up right outside our living room door, and we who live along the coast carry the risk if anything happens. The working party will follow the matter to the door. We, who are Finnmarks representatives, are going to follow the case to the door. And the door is here in Stortinget. This is where the parties are to be held responsible and made visible what they think about landing from the Johan Castberg field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1552	For the treatment of Prop. 80 S for 2017-2018 Development and operation of the Johan Castberg field with status for oil and gas activities in the spring of 2018 and Innst. 368 S for 2017–2018 Stortinget made request decisions 890 and 891 on oil transhipment at Veidnes in Finnmark. These requests were informed by the Government of Prop. 41 S for 2018–2019, which we treat today. The companies themselves have identified three alternatives that have been the subject of investigations: ship-to-ship transhipment in Sarnesfjorden/Kåfjorden ship-to-ship transhipment in Sarnesfjord using an anchored warehouse ship The size is now informed that the companies have concluded that no further work is to be done on any of the options for transporting crude oil to Sarnesfjorden for transhipment to ships. In this case, a somewhat closer conclusion has been reached, which the companies are expected to take in the third quarter of 2019. I would like to point out that the majority of the committee believes that the investigation into a downgraded terminal is in an early stage, and that is what it is to be further worked on. None of the options identified have been considered to be socially viable. Here I would like to refer to the request decision 891, which says: «The decision shall be based on good resource management considerations.» To this point, I want to make a call for companies that want to establish themselves in the Barents Sea and in Finnmark: it is the fewest of the expansions that are socio-economically profitable. Nevertheless, it is good use of resources to invest in a way that ensures that the local population is positive to the industry and that local ring-effects are ensured in a good way. Oil and gas industries face major recruitment challenges among young people and are no longer the first choice for graduates. It is then advisable to ask yourself how the investment decision will affect this reality for young people in North Norway. I want to encourage a resource management that gives ring-fence and confidence to the industry as a whole. The trust is managed by the company Equinor in this matter. The company has already promised the local population a significant expansion and has benefited from the goodwill of such a promise. Breaking the promise will give a high degree of corresponding reluctance and negativity to the industry as a whole. Although the company alone is responsible for this matter, it is in the interests of the majority that the opening up of the industry is ensured. I know that the construction of the activity in the Barents Sea is at an early stage, but plans that strengthen the infrastructure will also ensure long-term profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1581	For the climate, there is no anniversary when the oil industry is once again receiving support for new investments and new greenhouse gas emissions. Norway is a major exporter of greenhouse gas emissions, and it is a heavy responsibility that rests on us. But even if the maximum emissions come from use, we also have to take responsibility for production. The oil industry stands for 28 pst. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions and emissions from the industry have increased by 78 pst since 1990. It has been the major driver of the increase in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. And when most people have to change, it's a cross of thought that this rich industry has almost doubled its own, huge emissions. Therefore I allow myself to rejoice a little bit today, because it becomes clean power from land and not polluting gas turbines. From 2011 and the first findings on the Utsira height, I have been working on electrification of these fields, and there has not been such a consensus on such an extension solution as it might sound like here in the hall today. From the very beginning, oil companies strongly opposed electrification, and the oil companies followed one batch after another. That is why the 2014 Decision, which came on the basis of an SV proposal, and the decision we are to take later today, is not only important because it avoids greenhouse gas emissions. It is also important because it shows that the environmental movement and the Storting can force through better climate expansion solutions that oil companies themselves do not want. We have seen the resistance of the oil companies, among other things. as regards the solution for the Edvard Grieg field, it is therefore important that we have decided that the Edvard Grieg field should be brought into force from land regardless of what the oil company Lundin may think. The ministry says there's nothing wrong with that happening, and I'm really expecting them to follow up. The representative, Kjeseth, said that we electrify a lot of Norwegian base, but unfortunately we do not. Nor are there a few Norwegian fields that gain power from land. I guess we're talking about about about eight, and then I'm taking the fields to Utsira. Even fewer of those who are electrified are because the oil companies chose it themselves. The conclusion of these figures can only be that the instruments are not good enough today. The CO2 price is not high enough to trigger electrification. Political governance and decisions are needed. In 2011, few thought it was possible to force from land to the entire height of Utsira. I think we were a handful of people. But we succeeded – in good cooperation between the environmental movement and parties on the Stortinget. So we will always be able to adopt new climate requirements for the country's most polluting industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1594	Today is a big day. The decision to extend phase two of the Johan Sverdrup field will mean work and activity along the coast. The supplier industry will be given a sore job, such as Aibel in Haugesund, which had to give up hundreds of employees during the oil crisis, but which is now working on the development of the Johan Sverdrup field. In the summer of 2017, I myself had a summer job a week at Aibel and got a close look at the ringing effects of the expansion, and not least I heard from those who worked there, how important this activity is. At Rosenberg Verft in Stavanger, a collective wage cut in order to save as many jobs as possible and to avoid that colleagues had to be laid off. The optimism of both Rosenberg and Aibel is two good examples of the atmosphere in the Western world right now. We've been through an oil crisis where thousands lost their jobs, where there were no new jobs to go to, and where long-term unemployment was allowed to get stuck. But now it shines in the horizon, optimism is back, and new positions are published. Optimism is good, new projects are good, decisions about electrification are good – all this has a broad majority behind it in this room. In addition to this, the Labour Party believes that Stortinget now has to ask itself the question of what it looks like on a Norwegian base after the oil crisis. What is the competitive situation? How have the cut rounds affected the different branches of the industry? And how is the socket affected by Equinor's more dominant role? Unfortunately, this is clearly rejected by the government parties when our proposal for an independent evaluation is voted down today. When I also hear the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party here today, I am a little surprised. I think it is alarming whether the Storting should be reduced to acting only as a hub of government, despite the many and diverse issues that are being addressed today. For example, the Christian People's Party, which was involved in bringing up the debate on the competitive situation on the pedestal, has clearly abdied. It surprises me in particular that the government so arrogantly rejects the concerns and warnings that come from the supplier industry, the offshore shipping companies and the trade unions. Norwegian pedestal is not a constant, it is constantly changing, and it is our duty – from Stortinget – to follow along and follow up on the right actions. Let me just take a few examples of the changes that have occurred in recent years: several of the major foreign players have stepped down in Norway. This, of course, affects competition. We have heard reports that Equinor pays so badly that the offshore companies rather leave ships at berth than take jobs, and the trade unions are concerned about worse working conditions. In time after the oil crisis, we have been extremely concerned about saving in and cutting costs. That has been right, but in the hierarchies after cost cuts, I think the government has forgotten the importance of social responsibility and the importance of the industry for the supply industry and the labour market in Norway. That is why it is a pity that our proposal today does not have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1611	I continue with the voice from the West – from the industry and from us who are used to seeing the platforms along our coast. 900 B.C.E. It is estimated that the Johan Sverdrup field will add to the Norwegian community. We need revenues to maintain the welfare community. For the aquaculture industry, which may be the new industry, it took 40 years to reach the level at which it is today. We need economic muscles to be able to develop new technologies to meet the changes that will occur because the oil industry will gradually be built up. We need the money, for example. developing carbon capture and storage – an incredibly expensive investment. There's Norway leading globally in getting it done, but we need the economy to develop it further. We also need the knowledge from the petroleum industry to develop new technologies. And then it's a cross of thought that our production stands for 2 pst. of the world's oil production. Climate challenges are global, and we are constantly looking away from some, and now recent Chinese, investing in new coal-based power plants in developing countries. We see how production is increasing in the world linked to sources other than those that are being developed in parallel, which are future energy sources. But it takes time, and Norway is going to have ambitions to get it done. That's why we think that one of the most important things we do is to make strict demands on our own production. We have done this by demanding a CO 2 tax since 1991, and we also do it by being part of the European quota system, we do it by electrification, we do it by HMS rules, and I hope we do it now in terms of local anchoring and value creation in Finnmark. I would also like to address the last topic raised by my colleague Tvedt Solberg. We are constantly getting feedback from the supplier industry, from shipping companies and from supply boats that Equinor's leading position is really challenging to develop the rest of the industry, create jobs, etc. I sincerely hope that the Minister will take responsibility and be in dialogue with Equinor in making demands, so that they will contribute positively to the development of the rest of the great cluster we have, especially towards the maritime sector. And then a little thought for Finnmark -- they deserve local jobs in an industry they've been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1625	When people who are not sitting on the Stortinget and who do not write notes on a daily basis read comments, especially in matters relating to the petroleum industry, there is enough room to rush a bit – actually also for us who are working on this and are writing comments – when you see how the Greens and SV select the notes they are supposed to be in, and which they are not supposed to be in, to show that they have no sense whatsoever of Norwegian petroleum industry or those who have their daily activities there, for example. in this case. The Green Party will not take note of the fact that the industry is seeking new opportunities to reduce its own emissions, but it is good for SV. None of them believe that there can be anything to say about the competitiveness of industry internationally. SV will not be aware that we have strict rules on health, the environment and safety, and they will not agree that we will be world leaders at HMS in the future, but it is okay for the Greens. As we remember, none of them were for the Johan Castberg field, but both parties want landing. So to land, you have to have something to land. I am pleased with the attitude that the Council of State and the Government refer to the request decisions that we made in connection with it. Based on the consensus we had here at Stortinget when we discussed the first construction steps in the Johan Sverdrup field, there will be investments of 14 billion. kr that will cut 625000 tonnes of CO 2 each year. And it's just from the Sverdrup field. In addition, there will be emission reductions from the fields Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. So you have to ask yourself: what other countries with a petroleum industry are the ones that make such demands, and in what other countries with a petroleum industry is this possible? This shows that we are taking the world's energy needs seriously, that we are taking employees seriously in the industry and that we are taking climate change seriously. Last but not least, I think it's worth bringing in another comment that SV and the Greens stand together on their own, namely that they're open to the fact that the world is still going to need oil and gas – they just don't want Norway to produce it, but that other countries are going to. Is this the most climate-friendly solution for combating global warming? They write this despite the fact that the industry on our base shows the ability and willingness to change and cut emissions. It's a paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1635	Openness of environmental advice on oil expansion is very important and was one of the achievements of the red-green government when it joined in 2005. Recently, the Riksrevision presented a report on oil and the environment. Among other things, there will be: The Ministry of Oil and Energy criticised for the lack of transparency in its assessments of the environmental advice obtained. I therefore hope that the Minister of Oil and Energy will use this debate to establish that the OED's assessments of the environmental councils will be public. So, an explanation of vote. SV will vote against Red's loose proposal in this case. We're for offshore wind power. We are also using offshore wind power to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but we cannot wait to cut greenhouse gas emissions until we have established offshore wind power. It is also wrong, as the representative Moxnes said earlier in the debate, that electrification of Norwegian base does not cut emissions. Of course it does. The emissions from the cap come from very inefficient gas turbines. Although gas is not part of the solution to the climate noise, we must agree that as long as we use gas, it will be used as efficiently as possible. We're going to waste as much as possible on it. Today, the use of gas is used to waste mass on the base. Red’s proposals will therefore give us increased greenhouse gas emissions for many years to come. Since SV is a party that takes the climate crisis seriously, we will cut emissions, and we will vote against proposals that increase them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1646	I'll get into what I brought up in the reply with the minister. Preparedness is something that everyone knows you have to have. Preparedness is important. We know that during Goliath expansion it was not good enough to be prepared. But it was said that the Stortinget had to be involved in developing better preparedness. The oil company was so clear, but Stortinget was not. There is a paradox here: we do not have enough preparedness, and we operate in one of the most vulnerable areas in the world – the best fishing grounds in Europe are in this area. Both the sea, the cod and the shoal there spawn. Even so, we're getting old with it. Goliath was wanted on land, but it was a bowload. There were few jobs in Finnmark. That's the fact that you can't forget, because that's what actually happened. You had a big deal -- you had to convince people in Finnmark that now there would be a lot of jobs. The supplier industry was supposed to come. The representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Right, at least one of them, were concerned with this with expectations that were created in Finnmark, and that Equinor has created these expectations. Now, it's incredibly important to follow up on this. I don't think people in Finnmark once again will accept that you won't get anything left. It has been said that you should also have a bending load in this case. I don't think people in Finnmark will accept bend loading, at least not if it becomes ship-to-ship loading. At least you have to make sure that you have cabins on land, so that it is done in a proper way. What kind of jobs are we going to get? The minister said we'd get 450 jobs in Finnmark. I want to hear a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1657	It's not in a liberal soul to force too much. But the representative Kaski is right that we have to create incentives and instruments that make us move the oil sector in a greener direction, and that has been done by the Left, SV and Christian People's Party. At that point, we have created the offensive energy policy. Especially when there is a minority government, the possibilities are created. I have to point out the gap between the Workers' Party and the Center Party here, and the SV on the other side stands for. But as the representative Haltbrecken also drew up: Red suggests something quite different. There is a significant gap on the left-hand side that does not create the coercion that the representative Kaski is after. I encourage SV to agree to continue working with the incentives and the electrification that we are now seeing happen. I didn't say we did it. We're on, and it happens. From 2014/2015 onwards, it is the Left, with a cooperation agreement with the government parties, which has driven a lot of it, which has also been SV's wishes. I said it's taken 15 years to get where we are with the electric car policy, and it'll take a few years to get where we want the socket. But we're on, and then we have to keep working on the incentives. As I pointed out in my post, it is a paradox that gas turbines are inside the oil tax agenda, while wind turbines are not. It says something about what we're dealing with in the future. We have to work with these incentives and the instruments that make the oil and gas sector have to be involved in the change that we want. The representative Bastholm doesn't mention hydrogen, which is another great industrial opportunity we have, among other things. related to the gas sector. She does not mention the retirement of existing fields. In Norway, oil and gas production is declining compared to international production. We've been up to a share of 2.5 pst. In the very short term, we'll go under 2 pst. and down to 1.5 pst. We're on our way down. It is important that we use that time window to reduce our own, i.e. the state, the risks associated with the oil and gas sector, develop the instruments and incentives that will lead us into a new energy supply and capacity to develop them. At the same time, we must not build up too quickly so that the economy slips along the way. We are on the right track to do this, and I encourage SV to contribute constructively in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1670	I want to thank you for a good debate so far. I think it is very reassuring that such a robust majority is behind the decision today. It's not going to come from the fact that one notices that a lot of people talk about the climate challenges from this pulpit. It is an important issue and important to bring with it in this debate about oil and energy, but it is not, as it were, out of optimism from those who have the floor and talk about climate. It is manufactured as if Norway were the problem. And Norway has great influence, but I feel that Norway's importance is likely to be somewhat exaggerated. Norway takes responsibility. We're doing it through the Paris Agreement, we're doing it through agreements we're now entering into with the EU, we've been in the quota sector for many years already, and we're going to meet tough demands. We're in the middle of a conversion. We implement, inter alia: the case today, electrification of the socket. We electrify – electric cars and public transport. We are implementing programmes on green shipping. And we're spending a lot of resources on CCS and general technology development. It's a simple message to say that we just have to put down, or phase out, the work and the activity on the Norwegian base. But is it that simple? The energy mix in the world today is 80 pst. fossil. The world’s population is increasing by 80 million every year – one Germany every year. Today, the world's car fleet is made up of about one billion cars, three million of which are electric. Yes, we're in the process, and we're working on big changes. But we have to spend time, and we have to give ourselves an opportunity without tearing down our entire welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1683	The representative Heggelund is talking about paradoxes, but if someone really stands for the great paradoxes in this case, it's right. So we hear Right Environmental Policy figures boasting that we're adopting force from land to Utzira Height, but at Castberg it's okay that we don't have power from land and should not cut those emissions. The resistance that the Right showed against us having any force from land to Utzira Height was also quite straightforward. A former spokesperson from the Right spoke with great confidence in the 2014 proposal for a representative, on country-by-country force: this will never be adopted. Yes, it did, and I'm glad that the Right now boasts of it. Had it become a habit for future electrification projects on Norwegian pedestal. I actually drew myself because the representative Iversen spoke well about the experience from the Goliath field in Finnmark. That's exactly right, what's being said. It's pretty important to learn from the experience we've now had, and the experience of Goliath expansion. In Finland, there have been countless meetings over the last ten to fifteen years, smog from the oil industry and promises of landing. Unfortunately, history repeats because it is toasted in champagne and cakes are eaten along the whole coast, but when the decision is taken, there is no landing and no ringing effect on land for Finnmark’s population. Then I wonder why the Workers' Party is so critical in this matter when last year they voted against SV's proposal for landing. It's really quite incomprehensible, because the reason that Utsira, the second case we're dealing with, is at all power from land, is a proposal for a representative who in this room was forced through a chosen development solution that the oil companies opposed. They did not want to go in favour of Castberg, but voted against the proposal for landing. Unfortunately, the conclusion is that it does not seem to be followed up, as history has shown to have been the case for other expansions in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1693	I would like to join those who thank you for a good debate, and who stress that there is broad consensus, both on the importance of electrification and the importance of using this opportunity to develop the most climate-friendly production possibilities on Norwegian pedestal. I think that is something we should take with us with pleasure from this debate. I really took the floor most to give a brief explanation of vote on the proposal from the Red. The Labour Party will vote against it. We are strong supporters of a big effort on offshore sea winds, but we believe that we are already in a race that is very important in order to achieve the electrification that is being decided here, and we will not delay it by postponing it until you have marine wind technology in place. That is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1700	I noticed in this debate that, in particular, the Workers' Party will have an investigation into the competitive situation on a Norwegian base. Then I would like to remind you that the size of the budget proposal received such an investigation. The conclusion was that no action was needed by the authorities, and an overall Committee on Energy and the Environment joined this assessment without any comments. I can't see that there's any new information that makes it relevant with a review of this topic. Then I want to say that in my contact with the companies, I feel that they are also engaged in maintaining a competitive supplier industry over time. So to the representative Haltbrecken: in proposal No. 1 it is proposed that the environmental assessments of the hearings carried out by the Ministry of Oil and Energy in relation to the granting of extraction permits in the petroleum industry be publicly available; In my opinion, these are not the same assessments that we make before a new concession round is announced. The consultation round for the concession rounds calls for input related to the existence of new material information relevant to the decision as to whether it may be petroleum activity after consideration of the relevant management plan. This is the result of Meld. St. 28 for 2010-2011, and Stortinget has joined this. The assessments we are making are therefore a safety valve with a limited mandate to check whether new, significant information has been received since the last time the Storting made a balance between petroleum activities and the environment and fisheries. This is because the Storting through management plans and opening messages have joined a concrete framework for the petroleum activity, and I am using this as a basis for my treatment of the hearings. So to the representative Geir Adelsten Iversen about ring effects in the north, ring effects from Goliath: I would recommend the representative to take another trip to Hammerfest – I am convinced that the representative has been there. Talk to the rapporteur, talk to the people who live in Hammerfest. Major ring-effects are reported – visible ring-effects. So to the representative Kaski, I noticed that she was cheering a little today. Then I allow myself to rejoice really.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1715	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1720	I noticed the response from the Council of State to my invitation to publish the environmental assessments made by the Ministry of Oil and Energy in connection with development matters. Of course, it is interesting for the public to know what assessments the Minister for Oil and Energy is making. It is so interesting that this secret team was charged by the National Audit Office, and it is particularly interesting when the Minister of Oil and Energy also chooses to seek advice from private consultants, perhaps because he is not satisfied with the advice that comes from the government's own environmental professional bodies, such as the Environment Directorate, the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1725	Well, I've been to Hammerfest – many times. What was a bit of the point of my question was the fact that the minister said Finnmark and Nord-Troms. If you take that perspective, you could say it's not just Hammerfest. Where are the jobs in Hasvik, where are the jobs in North Cape? Just North Cape is what we've been fighting for now, after we didn't get anything in Hasvik. North Cape is a place where you now want to land oil, and you want the supplier industry to come. North Cape thought that now they had come to heaven. But are they?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1730	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1746	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1755	Saving energy is always more environmentally friendly than expanding new power generation. In this case, eight proposals are made for more efficient use of electricity. I would like to thank the Committee on the Process and the SV for the original representative proposal. All power generation has an environmental cost. The debate following the NVE’s presentation of its national framework for wind power clearly demonstrates this. Although most people agree that we need to expand more renewable energy to cut greenhouse gas emissions so as to monner, the development of renewable energy and infrastructure must also always be balanced against nature considerations. A new report from the UN Panel on Nature shows that one million species can be eradicated as a result of loss of nature and other environmental damage. Loss of species is a threat that is in the long term as serious as climate change. These threats must be seen in the context. The smartest thing to do then is to reduce energy demand as much as possible. Building stands for about 40 pst. energy use in Norway. Between 50 pst. and 75 pst. the energy consumption of a household is used for heating. Much has been done to make new buildings more energy efficient. For existing buildings there is a lack of policy today. That is why a minority of the Greens also propose that the Greens should be part of, among other things. increased support for energy saving measures and measures for more energy-efficient domestic heating. We also ask the government to present a strategy on how all existing buildings in Norway can be rehabilitated to the passive house standard by 2050. We also propose setting a target of 40 pst. energy efficiency improvement by 2030 in the context of the implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. In winter, electricity prices went on the roof. Low-income families were hit hard. For this reason, the Environmental Party of the Greens and SV proposes that the government launch a pilot project in which low-income households receive financial support to implement power-saving measures. These are important proposals that we are voting on today. The more energy we can save, the less new energy we need to expand globally. With this, I will deal with the proposals that the Greens are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1770	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1775	The green shift is not just about how we're going to produce more energy; it's largely about how we have to use the energy we already have, better and more efficiently. I think that's what we used to call the '90s. Unfortunately, it is no less topical today, although the savings shower may no longer be the main instrument. Energy use in construction accounts for about 40 pst. of energy consumption in this country. Globally, the construction sector accounts for an equal share of greenhouse gas emissions, and here we are at the heart of the challenge. Lower energy use and the production of energy in Norwegian buildings are an important key in the fight against climate change, as clean energy can be released to cut greenhouse gas emissions in other sectors, such as transport and industry. The savings shower will be the symbol of a more efficient use of energy in the 1990s, but we need new symbols, and we need new measures that work. To achieve the goal of streamlining energy use in the construction sector, a broad range of instruments are needed: focus on more climate-friendly material use, phase-out of fossil heating sources, renewable energy production in construction, energy efficiency in existing building stock and consumer flexibility that supports that energy system, so that we get buildings that are climate and energy smart. Norway has a target of saving 10 TWh through energy efficiency improvement in buildings by 2030. Then we need to focus on and develop concrete tools that bring us there. I would therefore like to thank the proposers for keeping the debate alive. Public Norway has 43 million. m 2 vocational buildings, the municipalities own 24 million. m 2 vocational construction and is therefore a major and important player. The public should go ahead, with clear energy ambitions for the building mass, and we have a great untapped potential. Taking up the ambitions of the public will give a strong signal to the construction industry and have a strong impact on what is being built. In addition, the Centre Party believes that we need a review of theincreasement of efficiency, production and tariffs in the context, because it is essential to have action and instruments to take. It might also be interesting to hear the Council's reflections on this with Enova, and whether it's the only instrument to be used to achieve the 10 TWh target. Or does he imagine a broader range of instruments? With that, I'd like to raise the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1798	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1803	Energy efficiency improvement is one of our key measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Not only does it contribute to cutting greenhouse gas emissions; it also saves nature from unnecessary interference. And as if it wasn't enough: measures that reduce energy use also save business and people from unnecessary energy expenditure. A cheek egg is what we're talking about. There has long been a broad consensus in this room to save 10 TWh in existing buildings by 2030, compared to the use we had in 2016, but the government is planning to implement parts of this energy efficiency improvement by demolishing houses. Therefore, they also write in the 2018 State budget that the existing instruments in this area are sufficient to realise this 10 TWh saving. This is a way of manipulating targets without introducing new measures. It should not be possible to calculate that the demolition of buildings is accounted for as energy saving, while increasing energy use from new construction and population growth by 2030 is not included. But the answer to the weak investment in energy efficiency from this government may be found in its many visits to the EU. Here, a strong argument has been made against the EU setting ambitious targets for energy efficiency improvement – why? Yes, because a more energy efficient EU will lead to less imports of gas. It may seem that it is more important for this government to have gas sold to the EU than to take into account both nature and climate. I had hoped that after winter's high electricity prices and partly a loud debate on energy, we could have agreed to do more to make energy more efficient and reduce energy consumption, but unfortunately – the proposals we are promoting are being downgraded, despite the fact that there are good and very important measures that could have had an impact on many both industry and the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1814	There is a broad consensus over time in this room that we want energy efficiency improvement, to use primary power as efficiently as possible. It surprises me, therefore, that the proposals that have been put forward here become a little bit of a quiet height without a list, where one places a lot of emphasis on public building, and that one is going to blow up Enova further. We are, of course, in the process. The Health Declaration of the Right and the Advance Party gave a clear direction on this, the Granavolden further strengthened it, and in the meantime the Christian People's Party and the Left have also set more ambitious goals. Enova has been transferred to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I am surprised that one does not address other structural challenges that need to be and that one is not concerned with, among other things. the municipal sector. Having regular energy monitoring generally does little with energy consumption. I work for myself in the municipal sector, and many municipalities report that they have energy reviews every three to four years, but in the meantime nothing has happened, and that is because you do not have the actors to do the task. The municipal sector itself has suggested that it wants an energy-saving contract scheme, where one leaves some of the benefits of saving to entrepreneurs who are just doing the job, but this happens to a very small extent. It will be a political decision to have to make energy mappings, and then there will be nothing further in the meantime. Energy monitoring systems and energy management have largely been incorporated into the public sector today, at least in the State part. State buildings and defence buildings have taken great steps over the last few years. That's a lot to learn. We're going to start fossil-free construction sites, we're actually doing it already, and it's also going to make a big cut in the energy consumption of many of the big public actors. But where we have a job to do, the district heating structure is, because we're using electricity wrong today, or we're using too much power for heating. The municipal sector has a major task here through planning and building regulations – there is not much to be done in our committee today. We need to tighten this up, so that we can build up more capacity on district heating. Too many dwellings are built on the basis of heating with electricity, where builders don't care so much about who pays the electricity bill, and do not invest in infrastructure. Sun and wind also need to be more closely involved in the sector. Blocks and housing laws are another part of the energy sector we need to look at more carefully, which today has less access to Enova's instrument, for different reasons. We're also going to do that when we're going to use renewable energy in those buildings, so here we have to do a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1827	I think the committee leader made an interesting point at the end, where he pointed out everything that should be done. The problem is that his own party, who is in government, does not do what he is now calling for. He called for the Planning and Building Act to be part of a climate action. That's why it's very stupid that Erna Solberg has moved the entire planning and building law out of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, and that it's no longer seen as an instrument to do anything about it. On this issue, I would first like to thank the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European But most thanks to SV, who has promoted these proposals, and got to this debate here in the Stortinget. Energy savings are a sub-communicated part of the climate solution. The purest form of energy is the energy that is never used, and in Europe an increasing proportion of it is a major instrument, because if you cut the power consumption, you cut the CO 2 emissions at the same time. Here in Norway it's a little different, because our current is basically clean, but the fact that we can release electricity makes it possible for us to use it instead on industry or electrify the transport sector. We from the Workers' Party agree with the rest of the opposition that this work today is too slow. The size has adopted a target of cutting 10 TWh in the construction sector. Here we have seen that little or nothing has happened, even though the Storting has adopted it, and that is even stated in the government statement. So far, it's right as Lars Haltbrecken said in his post, that it seems like the government's main tool to reach this is to count the demolition of barley, while not adding to the new power consumption, which new construction provides. It's a counting method that might make you get into the goal, but it's a dishonest way of doing it. Then it would have been better if you actually said what it was, that you didn't intend to achieve this goal, and then we had a discussion about it. A number of proposals have been made today. Some of them think the Workers' Party goes a little too detailed to work, but we support those we believe are the most important, and those who set the direction for where we are going. We want a new energy efficiency improvement target by 2030. We support the implementation of a passive house strategy, and we also believe that we should put in place plans to improve public demand for a more efficient use of electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1843	First, we heard earlier in the debate that the savings shower was the symbol of energy efficiency improvement in the 1990s, and then we probably need more and wider inspections for average Norwegian conference hotels. This government prioritises energy efficiency improvement in all parts of the Norwegian economy, and that is important. Energy efficiency is a good climate action, and it is also a good measure in terms of nature protection. We do this in Norway by achieving the target of 10 TWh energy saving in barley, which is important when energy use in Norwegian construction is 40 pst. of domestic final energy consumption, and we will also contribute with Europe, in cooperation with the EU. One of the most important instruments we have to drive energy efficiency improvement in Norway is Enova. With the centre-right parties and the majority on the Stortinget, Enova has higher appropriations than ever before. We operate with many measures through Enova. One is to support integrated upgrade projects with a high energy ambition, so that energy-efficient solutions become the natural choice in all projects in the long term. Housing workers living in housing camps and communities also have the opportunity to receive support through the Enova energy efficiency improvement grant. We contribute with energy advice in the market and that this should be lifted and given more priority. Support is provided for energy monitoring, requiring the introduction of energy management by businesses, and, in the case of particularly costly measures, support is provided for investments if they are innovative and use the best available technology. In addition, for several years, efforts have been made to get public sector builders to use EPC, i.e. Energy Performance Contracts, because in such contracts, a professional counterparty can guarantee energy saving and contribute to implementing and, where appropriate, financing the measures. This is an important topic where a lot is already happening. This does not mean that we should be on the lat side, because we are going to reach the strong ambitions of this government for energy efficiency improvement in Norway. At the end of the day, I would like to make a small comment to the representative, Mr Haltbrecken, about the fact that we are not doing enough to bring down emissions in Europe. Well, he and his party voted against an opportunity to bring down coal consumption in Europe which fortunately was adopted by the Storting last year, namely in cooperation on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1856	In the government's political platform, we made it clear that we are facilitating energy efficiency in all parts of the Norwegian economy. This requires a comprehensive policy for both efficient and climate-friendly use of energy. Firstly, energy use must be measurable and visible. A lot is being done here today, both with smart meters and with new requirements for measuring heat in construction. Proper pricing is also essential, so that end-users get the right incentives to adapt. At the same time, energy efficiency depends on other key policy areas. Fees dampen and distort consumption against more energy-efficient and climate-friendly energy carriers. Through technical regulations of construction, we influence our energy efficiency in the building mass. Transport policy provides the basis for electrification in the transport sector. Much of the development of energy use is also managed at regional and municipal level through the development of our cities and agglomerations. We also have some more targeted measures in the field of energy efficiency of the type contained in the proposals under consideration here today. There are information tools, there are grant schemes, there are development of competences, etc. Enova was established in its time to get a professionally informed design of such instruments and with good achievement. The overall task may be carried out less rigidly and bureaucratically by avoiding policy detailing and designating. In addition, I would like to point out that the government has decided that we should implement the EU's energy efficiency directives, with the necessary adjustments that need to be made. Finally, I would like to remind you that large parts of our energy supply are based on renewable energy sources. This is a competitive advantage and facilitates climate-friendly energy use. At the same time, the government will continue its efforts to facilitate more efficient energy use in all sectors of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1873	Today, the situation is that most people contribute approximately. 400 million. kr annually to Enova, which is to go to energy efficiency improvement measures. About 200 million. kr of this money goes back to most people. Will the Council of State take the initiative that more of the energy efficiency instruments that most people contribute to, also go back to the people most — so that they can reduce their energy costs and their energy consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1878	That's what's one of the main goals of the money you put into Enova – as the instrument Enova actually is. Here I believe that Enova is doing a lot of good, which is just making this happen, as knowledge of the arrangements that can be used, guidance – not least – and a very effective system to get support for good projects that produce good results. I also record that the amount paid for a good project at the other end is larger now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1883	I think we can both agree that Enova is doing a lot of good and important work, but we also know that more can be done in private households. When we see the winter power debate and the high electricity prices, there is a part of this country that can't afford to take the investment costs it is to install efficient power saving measures in its households. When we then know that about half of what consumers contribute to Enova, to put it that way, goes back to consumers, there is a need for increased efforts by Enova to target the general consumer in Norway. What action does the Council of State intend to take in order to ensure that private consumers are encouraged to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1890	The most important measure is the measure I pointed to, which is easy access to an unbureaucratic system: if you can demonstrate that you are able to implement good projects that improve energy efficiency, you will also receive the support that is possible from the various measures. Here we have done several things: we have increased the appropriations so that more people can achieve this support. We have adapted and made sure that there is advice and guidance, precisely to capture more of the opportunities offered by Enova, in a broad field, related to energy efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1897	It seems that there is a broad political consensus that energy efficiency measures in buildings, both in existing buildings and in good energy requirements in new buildings, are important to cut emissions, it is important to preserve more nature and species in the world, and that is good for the individual trader and for the private economy of people. It uses to be that the measures promoted are also somewhat dependent on the objectives pursued. That is why I thought to ask the Council of State about the proposal of the minority, which is actually the majority of the committee – the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and us – to raise the Norwegian target to 40 pst. energy efficiency improvement by 2030. Why does the Council of State advise Norway, which spends so much money upgrading our buildings, not to have a higher target than the EU in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1904	The government has decided to achieve a target of 10 TWh energy saving in construction by 2030. It's an ambitious goal, and it's an important goal to work to achieve. We will report on this in the State budget for 2020, as the Stortinget has adopted. We have also put in place a number of instruments to achieve the objective set, which is an ambitious objective, which is an important goal of energy efficiency improvement and what is achieved with it, which the representative was also involved in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1911	Does this mean that the Stortinget might expect a revision of the Norwegian energy efficiency improvement target in buildings when the draft State budget for 2020 comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1916	What I said was that the government should report against the target set. There is a broad field of multi-activity work, just to extract an important gain that is in the field of energy efficiency improvement. And then we're going to report on what the government has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1921	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1939	There is a unanimous vote on the conclusions, but I still want to say a few words about this because it is an incredibly important agreement. This concerns the Memorandum of Understanding on a more inclusive working life, a working life with room for all, 1 January 2019-31. ==References== So it's going to apply to four calendar years. The Norwegian labour model has produced good results for employment, productivity, adaptability and a learning working life. Tripartite cooperation on a more inclusive working life will contribute to high employment and labour mobilisation by preventing and reducing sick leave and non-employment. The government will not propose changes to the sickness benefit scheme during this contractual period, either for the employer or for the employee, unless the parties agree, as stated in the contract. The centre party is very pleased with this agreement and supports the agreement. The IA agreement shall create a working life with room for all, by preventing sick leave and absence. The IA agreement has a target of reducing sick leave by 10 pst. compared to the 2018 annual average. It is an ambitious objective, for more industries and businesses have a low level of sick leave, and in these businesses it could be an objective in itself to maintain the low level of absence and focus efforts on preventive work environment work and on reducing non-employment in the labour market. It supports the willingness of the contracting parties to target efforts towards sectors that have the potential to reduce sick leave and non-response, and we are also very pleased to set specific targets for priority industries in the light of proven knowledge. 60 million will be granted. SEK in 2019 and 80 million later. kr for the industry programme. There are historical reasons why sick leave is clearly highest in local government, and from experience we know that both organisation, culture and management are crucial to ensure that we have a low level of sick leave. If we get more responsibility and authority in the first line, there will be more interesting jobs, and it seems positive for the question we are now discussing. We need to continue working for more full-time health and care workers, we need to work for temporary work pools with permanent public staff, and we need to gain greater respect for health professionals in the health and care sector. The centre party regrets that the IA agreement concluded lacks concrete targets to increase the number of people with disabilities at work. The Centre Party will support the work of disabled people’s organisations in this important work. But this requires stronger and more powerful financial incentives for employers than we have today. When we have free labour immigration from outside the Nordic region with the EEA Agreement, it becomes much more demanding to get more disabled people into income-intensive work. The centre party will therefore work with the aim of replacing free labour with regulated labour immigration, which will also benefit disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1958	It is a pleasure that one decided to continue the IA work with a new agreement together, after heavy players in cooperation discussed in the media whether there was any point in having a new agreement at all. This article will probably take as a bit of a criticism of the agreement that has been made. So I want to start by pointing out how important SV thinks it is with a truly inclusive working life and a comprehensive agreement between the parties about this. I would like to highlight two things for this matter. The first thing is, where are they disabled? It's sad to see that the disabled are not mentioned in the new agreement, as if these are not as important and are not entitled to work in the same way as the rest of us. Including working life, according to all the rules of art, should also be about people with disabilities – perhaps more so than anyone else, as is the situation in today's world of work. I must say that it is a pity that the disabled are not included in this agreement. The second thing I want to mention is the breaking policy of working for an inclusive working life while at the same time having increased access to hiring labour. It is simply a matter of going into political space, precisely for those who need to be included more and better in working life, need firm and secure frameworks and, at least, colleagues who have firm and safe settings. A greater proportion of insecurity, temporary settings and the replacement of workers work in a totally opposite direction to an inclusive working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1969	The IA Agreement is an IA agreement on a more inclusive working life between the government and the main social organisations, and it applies from 2001 to 2018. The aim was to reduce sick leave, to include more disabled people and to make older workers stay longer in work. After 17 years and 21 billion. kr in contributions from the State was sick leave only halved and the decline flattened out since 2012. The number of people with disabilities in work had not increased, and older workers were mostly longer in employment because of the pension agreement, not because of the IA agreement. Therefore, it was so important that if the agreement were to be renewed, it would have to have more instruments and reintroduce them. The overall objective of IA cooperation is to create a working life with room for all by preventing sick leave and non-response and thus increasing employment. The new agreement covers the entire Norwegian working life, where the workplace is the main venue for the IA work. This requires good cooperation between the parties and agreed on two national objectives. The first was that sick leave should be reduced by 10 pst. compared to the annual average for 2018, and the second was that the non-response should be reduced. The instruments and measures contained in the new IA Agreement are more targeted and effective in order to contribute to better achievement of the objectives. That's good for them. Labour surveys show that nine out of ten workers are satisfied with their job in Norway. There are still fewer physical pressures and risks to work or to work inconvenient working hours. You have 9 pst. for Norwegian workers, job-related sick leave of more than 14 days in 2003 was reduced to 5 pst. in 2016. However, while the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work states that Norway is at the forefront of working environment standards, there is still much to be gained from the working environment and sick leave, especially in some industries and enterprises. This is why a new work environment effort is being set up focusing on knowledge development, dissemination and guidance in preventive work. A website on the Labour Inspectorate’s websites shall disseminate knowledge and competence on effective preventive work. Now the labour market as a whole has access to the resources of work centres. NAV Employment Centres and individual enterprises also have more room for action to decide for themselves how to cooperate. The response to sectors and sectors is targeted at those with the potential to reduce sick leave and non-response through sectoral programmes, and trials are being undertaken on measures of competence for long-term sick-denominated people. All these efforts are reflected in the changes in the State budget to follow up the inclusion work of those who are already linked to the labour market. So I want to remind you that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party are occupied by those outside. The government's inclusion capacity includes more tools and more ambitions to get more people out of work today than was previously stated in the cooperation of the parties on an inclusive working life. Both are important areas of activity, but the instruments are somewhat different. If we are to ensure a good, inclusive and family-friendly working life, it is important to have a comprehensive policy in which the various instruments do not strike each other in half, even when the purposes are good. I'm glad the government has both priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1986	The working party is very pleased that last year there was agreement between the parties on a new IA agreement. It ensures full pay under sickness and provides employment with tools to prevent apostasy and absence. There are, of course, elements of the agreement and economic disposals that follow, as the Workers' Party would like to see differently. But we must respect that this is a negotiated compromise with the parties, and we therefore support the redeployment of the funds proposed in the proposal. In the further work, it is important to follow up on the use of funds that are now being shifted from organising grants to other instruments in a way that meets the objectives of the agreement. Since the first IA agreement was concluded almost 20 years ago, we have not achieved all the objectives we have set ourselves. At the same time, the community has saved almost 150 billion. kr for reduced sick leave during the period. It's important to bring it with you. The next 20 years are getting more demanding. Work life changes faster - jobs will disappear, new ones will come. The need for competence that we have not even thought about will arise. Therefore, competence is an essential part of inclusion policy, but, as is known, the number of competence measures for Nav users has fallen in recent years. The Workers' Party believes that the right to empowerment should be legalised and partly financed through a competence fund managed by the social partners. Proper competence reduces absenteeism and improves health. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants future IA agreements to be more committed to providing workers with the skills they need to work. In order to succeed in inclusion, we must succeed in the policy of competence. If we do that, we will achieve the objectives of the IA agreement, unless there is less absence and less absence from the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e1999	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2015	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2031	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2049	In 2018, Norway exported seafood for $99 billion. kr. Over the last ten years, the value of Norwegian maritime food exports has increased by 122 pst. Over the same period, the value of marine food exports from aquaculture has increased sharply. Exports of salmon accounted for 68 of the total 99 billion marine food exports last year. The marine industry has become one of our main export industries. We need increased export revenues to maintain the welfare community. Ensuring the world's growing population access to protein-rich food is one of our greatest global challenges. Climate challenges mean that food needs to be produced more sustainably. Norway has the potential to be a global leader in healthy and climate-friendly marine food production. If we are to succeed in meeting the challenges, we must reconcile sustainability and competitiveness. Norway has developed one of the best management systems for wild fish, but with regard to aquaculture, we have great potential for improvement. We need to develop a knowledge-based management based on environmental, fish health and economic sustainability. The industry needs predictability and a modern framework of professional authority that can take the necessary balances to facilitate sustainable growth. To bring up the challenges, I have chosen to spend some time describing how complicated and complex today's governance is. Marine production is complex and therefore involves many interests, but the point is how we organise management so that it becomes as appropriate as possible and not fragmented as it is today. Today's administrative structure involves three levels of government: municipality, county and state. The industry has to deal with five sectoral authorities: the Coastal Agency, the Food Authority, the Fisheries Directorate, the Environment Directorate and the NVE. There are six departments responsible for nine different laws and regulations: the Aquaculture Act, the Food Act, the Animal Welfare Act, the Nature Diversity Act, the Outdoors Act, the Pollution Act, the Water Resource Act, the Planning and Building Act and the Port and Water Law. In addition, the sectoral authorities are divided into regions with different practices of legislation. It also applies to county councillors and municipalities. Conditions at company level are given by the Directorate-General for Fisheries, while at site level different sectoral authorities will impose additional requirements. Applications for a locality permit are addressed to the county, which forwards to various sectoral authorities for assessment. The Food Authority shall decide on the application according to the Food Act, the Coastal Agency according to the Port and Water Law and the County Environmental Department according to the Pollution Act. Furthermore, the County Environmental Department gives an opinion on the site's location in terms of nature protection, vulnerable nature, biodiversity, open air life and fishing and wild fish interests. The Directorate for Fisheries expresses its opinion on marine fishing interests and the NVE when intervened in fresh water under the Water Resource Act. The municipality assesses the application against its spatial plan. Today’s management is a complex model, with many sectoral authorities and time-consuming processes both for industry and for the public. Each sectoral authority often has a veto right. The absence of professional coordination means that sectoral authorities operate on their own agendas and, in some cases, directly counter each other and are able to make demands that do not support the desire to develop a new forward-looking industry. The model is also challenged by authorities challenging their own boundaries. An example is environmental requirements from some municipalities. Under the law, the municipality shall determine where aquaculture can be carried out, while the County State, the Fisheries Directorate and the Food Authority are responsible for enforcing different parts of environmental legislation. Now you can see examples of several municipalities, including: Alta, Tromsø and Osterøy set their own environmental requirements for the aquaculture industry. It is important that strict environmental requirements are laid down. However, there must be equality and clarity in which authority is to determine and enforce environmental requirements, so that both the requirements and the sum of the requirements become reasonable. This fragmented management does not reflect the purpose paragraph of the Aquaculture Act, which states: «The law shall promote the profitability and competitiveness of the aquaculture industry in the framework of sustainable development and contribute to coastal value creation.» If we are to succeed in developing a sustainable aquaculture industry, with robust sites based on available knowledge of the environment and fish health, we need to simplify the governance structure and strengthen the skills of the administration. There is also a need to clean up old permits. Over the years, for political reasons, a variety of special permits have been granted, such as development permits, viewing permits, research permits, teaching permits, so-called green permits, and permits for stockfish and slaughter. Environmental considerations emerged as particular consideration from 2003, but only in 2013 became a central award criterion, the aim of which was to test technological and operational solutions to reduce lice and escape. In 2009, five authorisations were earmarked for organic production, and in the West, fish health was a criterion aimed at reducing the risk of PD. Processing level requirements, training requirements or requirements for apprentices, size of establishment and geography have been set. Today's system of permits granted over time with very different conditionality provisions at both company and local level makes it very challenging to ensure effective supervision. Each site may have a set of different conditions. Perhaps in fear of legal proceedings, the authorities have little followed up on whether the conditions have been implemented and whether they have had the desired effect. Several authorisations have been granted on a competitive basis and some may have failed to apply because they have considered that the conditions were not professionally sound or realistic, such as the authorisation for the breeding of genetically engineered salmon. The result is that someone may have been awarded a limited benefit at the expense of others. With today's salmon prices, it represents large economic values. It is necessary to clean up old permits in order to ensure effective supervision and to provide a reasonable framework for sustainable production in our common public. But it's going to be challenging to clean up. Should the State withdraw the authorisations for which the conditions have not been implemented require financial intervention at the price of a commercial authorisation, or should a line be set and a form of amnesty be introduced? There is a need for an overall review of the allocation conditions and not least how to monitor the operation of the facilities. It is necessary to develop a structure for operational responsibilities. Due to the scarcity of volume, authorisations and sites have received the most attention recently, while the operating conditions, such as transport, PD regulation, aquaculture law, etc. which governs how the industry can operate sustainably, which should receive increased attention in the future. The knowledge base of management needs to be improved. Existing knowledge should be gathered, while more analysis and research is needed to improve the knowledge of the context and cause. There is a need for a more coherent and comprehensive authority based on existing knowledge to ensure that environmental management, food surveillance and the Directorate-General for Fisheries play a role. It is necessary to establish a more coherent administration, with professional weight and integrity, capable of weighing the different interests. The aim must be to provide the industry with a framework in order to establish more robust locality structures that take into account both disease, lice and environmental pressures. The Maritime Directorate may be a model. They have shown that they are able to take full responsibility while dealing with different sectoral authorities and levels of administration. It is also important to clarify that industry should not believe that a coherent management will make it easier to escape emissions, lice, poor fishing welfare or escape. The aim is to have a unified administration that can operate with professional weight, both towards industry and externally. Marine industry is a national industry with high growth potential, but it depends on a forward-looking knowledge-based framework for success. The question is: will the Council of State take the initiative to clean up the special permits and ensure a coherent management of the aquaculture industry by giving coordination responsibility to a State body with professional weight and integrity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2117	We have achieved the levels of salmon and trout breeding in Norway – thanks to the first pioneers who saw the opportunities, took chances and showed the way through testing and failure about 50 years ago. Thanks to a significant and long-term research effort from our highly competent professional community, and thanks to the authorities, who have been able to follow the development of the industry and have arranged for framework conditions adapted to the different stages and stages of development of the industry, we have succeeded. Interpellanten Grung shows in his statement that Norway has the potential to be a global leader in healthy and climate-friendly food production from the sea, and I agree with those degrees with the interpellant. But at the same time, I would argue that Norway is already a global leader in maritime navigation. We've done a lot, and we'll succeed a lot more, but yes, I totally agree with the interpellant that we haven't solved all the challenges. We have a way to go, but we still have every reason to be proud of this industry and development until today. As Minister of Fisheries, I will help put in place a system to raise this industry further. During the period prior to 2017, growth in salmon and trout industry was given through occasional and unforeseeable allocation rounds, both in terms of time and criteria. That time is over. In spring 2015, the Government of the Maritime Communication promoted proposals for a new capacity adjustment system, and the Stortinget joined the Government's proposal as a matter of priority. The system involves a division of the coast into 13 production areas and a traffic light system in order to regulate production capacity in salmon farming from the limit of acceptable environmental impact. The traffic lights were switched on in 2017 and currently provide both industry and management predictability when any capacity adjustment is made, how often, according to which criteria, and how much such adjustment will be in the different production areas. During the capacity adjustment in 2017-2018 it was opened for 6 pst. growth in 8 of the 13 production areas. This gave the industry a growth in production capacity of about 24 000 tonnes. The traffic lighting system is a good system, which corrects the aquaculture industry for the future, and I would argue that this new system itself represents a significant element in the clean-up of concessional conditions that Groung is calling for. In the case of part of the previous allocation rounds, inter alia: in 2009, different priority criteria have been set for the granting of authorisations. It has, for example, have been the processing criteria and the prioritisation of smaller actors. This has been mainly award criteria and has not been put as a condition in the permits themselves. There are some exceptions, such as the green permits from the 2013 allocation round, where conditions were imposed in the permits themselves. Green permits were granted through a competition in which applications with the potential to reduce the environmental impact of lice and escape emerged. Now changing the conditions set to ensure the implementation of the elements that were critical to who used to be can be challenging. In any case, it can also be seen as an unsportable change in the rules of the game. The old allocation rounds, in all their forms and variants, are a completed chapter. I want to give priority to the future by developing the traffic light system to the best of both industry and administration. This is a system that will last for a long time. We have and will continue to have risk-based supervision in the aquaculture industry. Good and effective supervision is essential for the proper follow-up of the industry. I think it's great that the Workers' Party here is in line with the government in facilitating effective management. So here we have the same goal. I see that we have an improvement potential on the supervisory side, and have therefore implemented several measures and projects aimed at providing this simplification for the industry and the efficiency of the administration that the representative is asking for. The Ministry is engaged in public-private cooperation in the aquaculture sector on the basis of the successful cooperation in the financial and agricultural sectors. Here, the entire industry, as well as representatives from the administration, will work on a number of already specified issues, all with the aim of contributing to efficiency, digitisation and simplification and interacting precisely between the administration and the industry itself. We are already running on four very current projects: We have started a review of ownership and flow of data in terms of digitisation. We consider the revitalisation of marine data. We're doing a review of the supervisory activity against the industry. We must go through all industry-to-management reporting with a view to modernising and improving efficiency. Further improvements in the efficiency of supervision in the aquaculture industry are a high priority, and I expect here we will achieve positive results, as we have seen in other sectors where we have run the corresponding project. A result from the financial industry is the use of consent-based solutions in Altinn, which provide digital access to information already provided by citizens to various registers when applying for loans. The annual profit for the banks of this measure alone is approximately EUR 1,2 billion. kr. The interpellant calls for a coherent management of the aquaculture industry by providing coordination responsibility to one State body. Let me first remind you that this coordination responsibility was transferred from one government agency to the county municipalities through the implementation of the administrative reform under the previous government in 2010. Let me add that the aquaculture industry is not unique, given that several different sectoral authorities are involved in the process by clarifying the start of new activities. Any industry has to deal with this, and it's not necessarily any negative. An important factor in getting this as streamlined as possible is that the different sectoral authorities are aware of their role and that there are clear and good boundaries between who is responsible for what, because it can quickly become complicated if different sectoral authorities go to bed. In the large picture, I believe that the allocation system in the aquaculture industry works well. We have established a one-stop shop, which means that applicants are dealing with one coordinating authority rather than having to follow up on their own a number of instances in order to obtain the necessary permits. Today, the county has this coordinating function. This system is one of many other countries that envy us. In the follow-up to the regional reform, Stortinget has discussed the task of the county council and concluded that the county council should retain its role in the processing and coordination of applications for aquaculture permits. Thus, the size has relatively recently addressed the question from the inter-pellant regarding the transfer of coordination responsibility to one State body. If Stortingen changes his view of this, I would like to return to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2160	It's very good that happens in this industry, and many fine systems that have been developed. I think there are few industries that report as much as the aquaculture industry. The traffic light system is also agreed upon. However, we have also learned that when so many different sites have different degrees of guidelines attached to them, it is challenging to establish an effective supervisory system. Something has been assessed at company level and something has been assessed at the individual location. In addition, many of the sites, for historical reasons, are located in perhaps not the most suitable locations. So being able to put into practice background knowledge, have authority, be able to move locations and merge smaller units into larger ones, at least the Labour Party would be wise. I did not fully understand the answer about existing, given terms. Have you followed up on whether they have achieved what were conditions? Should it be withdrawn if they have not complied with the conditions set for the individual location historically? What is the response, if any? As far as the single administration is concerned, we are fully aware that it was transferred to the county municipalities in 2010. But when we have ambitions – and I think we share them fully – to build up a national industry, and see how it is managed, with all the different regional practices, the practices of the different statesmen and the practices of the counties, it is not a good and effective way to further develop a national industry, which is vulnerable, because there are many reasons to take, not least related to environmental challenges and emissions. I think it would be wise if you took another round to look at this. The economic operators have called the counties a post office for many different agencies. They don't have the professional weight and the ability to weigh these different factors against each other. If this does not happen tomorrow, I believe that if this industry is to succeed and have fewer conflicts associated with it, it must produce in the general public in a sensible way with minimal emissions. When individual companies stand up against each other, I think it might be wise to look at the administration one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2171	Let me establish a few things in the introduction: I do not lock any doors considering the issues that the representative Grung has brought into the hall. I think these are important issues, including localities, because some of the sites have been given at a different time from the one we have today. The fact that concessions do not meet the terms of the concession at the time they were granted and that they have not been requested to change the concession, so that it is in the current legislation, should not, of course, occur, because you have to operate under the conditions that have been granted through the treatment. In some contexts, for example: do not use a location over time, so a location can be withdrawn. It could also apply to concessions. There may also be reason – as the representative had been – to look at the possibility of merging concessions and looking at the conditions, for example. in given areas to reduce the load, or because concessions are given at a time when another location might be better than the one originally given. Of course, I'll look at this. I'm open to making it the best possible in this industry, so that we both meet the ecological criteria and create the opportunity for growth. That's why I've said that even if you didn't use the red light in the traffic light system when it came to breeding – the growth regime – the last time, the red light is turned on, because if you need growth, you also have to take care of the environment. We also need to look at the device on this at all times. In the case of concessions, we are now in the middle of a round of development concessions, which were given, among other things. to look at different solutions related to innovation and technology. In this context, the Directorate-General for Fisheries is now finishing the examination of the latest applications, and some are subject to appeals by the undersigned in the Department. We'll make sure that they're properly treated. It is clear that we have to work along many axes, including through the PD regulation – we have already given a clear message that we should fight against PD. This applies to the transport regulation, in order to prevent the transport and transmission of disease. It also applies to the control of ILAs and others. We also have to look at borderlines. There's a lot of different things we have to work with all the time to get better. Although it works well out there today, there are some areas where we need to get better and where we need to find solutions. Escape, lice and disease are three of those things, and we're going to work well on every single day until we can solve these problems. So I fully agree with the interpellant: we have challenges that have to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2188	I want to thank Ruth Grung for raising this issue, which very clearly shows how complex our administration at sea has become. This is a joint responsibility for different governments, so here's not the point to point at anything or someone. The management of our marine areas is important for what we, as a nation, will live on in the future. We need to facilitate the efficient use of our resources, including from an environmental point of view. For us in the Working Party, both growth and protection are important. Both parts shall be taken into account. We're going to keep the globe, in this case the sea, but also make sure that we can harvest the sea in a long-term perspective. Administrations must have a coherent policy to that end. Some time ago, I had an interpellation with the Minister for Climate and Environment about what the proposed Marine Protection Area on the Lopenhagen would mean purely practical for the fishing industry. The area proposed for protection is more than 3,000 km2, so there is no small area. You could view this as a little bit on the side of today's interpellation, but I think it's actually another side of the same thing. In that interpellation I asked for a clarification of what protection would mean for the fisheries. Would e.g. active tools could be used in the protection area? Can you harvest from seaweed, seaweed and seaweed? Would there be limitations in the construction of berths and naust? Can the ports of the protected area be muddy and elaborated? Will breeding in the protection area be possible? These things were the fishermen who were attached to the Lopår, and the municipalities around – Hasvik and Loppa – occupied. I did not get any specific answers, only a response to how the protection process was put up. That's why my recommendation to the government is to give answers to practical questions related to professional practice, because it wants people to get answers to, so that they know what this is like. My experience isn't that people are against protection either, but they have a right to know what it means. That is why management and protection are closely linked, and I think it is necessary to coordinate both areas, both for fisheries, for farming and for the objective we have, namely to harvest the sea in different ways, and to contribute to the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2204	So Ruth Grung has asked a question of uniform management of the aquaculture industry by giving a government body responsibility for coordination. The background to the question is that the representative Grung appears to assume that through a single coordination procedure, Norwegian authorities will be able to ensure that a growing population has access to protein-rich food, while at the same time meeting climate challenges through the global leadership of Norway in healthy and climate-friendly marine food production. It is over-optimistic to believe that such a simple organisational approach would be a miracle that meets both the climate challenges and the food security of the earth’s population. In addition, it is difficult to know exactly what the representative here thinks about, because the Fisheries Directorate in Bergen already assumes – and has for a long time assumed – the coordination responsibility that Mr Grung calls for, according to what I know. We in the Center Party are positive about all of the inputs that should be able to give rise to an industry that is now looking for technological solutions. A number of innovations may revolutionise an industry that is now at risk of being acquitted by industrial measures in other countries. Closed offshore facilities are in the shot, as well as land-based — a farm rig, oatmeal, is soon a fact. The growth requested by the representative Grung cannot be met without a total innovation on lice, escape and pollution — polluting old-fashioned mermaids with closed installations, which have also been extensively researched. This applies to the above seabed — Floating Fish — and also longitudinal and tidal closed installations. In fjords after fjords, the facilities for traditional fjord fishing are destroyed. We have a lot of examples of that. The transition to environmentally sound production must be resolved before further growth can be discussed. The industry is facing a feed problem. Where are you going to get the feed? Some have pointed out that the wood processing industry can supply a product that can be incorporated into compound feed. There is no solution to feed farmed fish from wild fish. The species of wild fish that need, for example: reddish, may get it. I would therefore ask the Council of State to take action to convert the out-of-date, open and highly polluting old-fashioned mercenaries into more environmentally friendly facilities. This has been a lot of research. The industries that experience super profit will not modernise themselves, even if it should not lack capital. We believe that the industry has good ability to convert. I believe that the industry must pay resource interest to the municipalities where the industry operates. The centre party will use all of Norway without destroying traditional industries. Farms must be located in such a way that they do not damage or destroy traditional fish in fjords and coastal areas. The centre batch will remove the concession for production methods in aquaculture industries that do not adversely affect the external environment, such as terrestrial farms and closed sea facilities. The centre part will also have to be given more to the municipalities to set aside land for the aquaculture industry. This should be done by reintroducing a national natural resource tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2223	Thank you for the debate and not least for the commitment of the Council of State. The working party believes that it is absolutely necessary that we focus more on the operating phase, and not do as it is now, where it has been very much about allocating new volume. You have to follow up both the existing and the earlier. And then I just get to repeat that we think it's smart to clean up as much as possible in the terms that are set. Then you get to balance it with the historical, but at least make sure that they are harmonised, so that we get the most effective supervision possible. We also call for a better balance between environmental and industrial concerns. We have an experience of, even when it comes to the work on these seas, that environmental considerations are much more important than business interests. One of the UN's sustainability targets is actually economic sustainability, which should certainly be lifted a little bit more, because we're going to have something to live on. So to Adelsten Iversen, the industry needs to solve its challenges in the future. But at the same time, we think that if we're going to succeed, they need a professional unit that can balance knowledge against each other, so that it becomes as sustainable as possible, and that the right requirements are set in terms of the environment, fish health and power conditions. And with the environment, we also think about all the other activity that's in the area around. As I said in my main post, it was not intended that a unified administration should make it easier for those who do not want to follow the legislation. On the contrary, it was intended to strike a balance between the different considerations. There are no county councils, as it is today, the professional weight to be able to balance as strong sectoral interests as it is in this area. And the losers, we're the population, and that's the industry, not least by using as much resources as we do to oversee in a very inefficient way, and that there's a lack of predictability. For it has actually been the guide for the Workers' Party, but also for this government, that efforts are being made to facilitate predictability, but not least more effective public administration. That's why I spent so long presenting how complicated it is. In conclusion, I believe that the Maritime Directorate is a good example of success. We just built up the petroleum industry because we were able to coordinate both the supervision and the directorate so that we got a unified platform. So we're looking forward to something happening in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2238	I, the undersigned and the representative, Mr Grung, share many views on this issue, including many of the challenges. But I must be allowed to say one thing: when the representative Adelsten Iversen of the Central Party goes up and has such a hostile contribution to our second largest export industry, I am concerned about District Norway. This industry is one of the most important industries for Norwegian districts, and it is the municipalities themselves that set of land. The way it is referred to is simply terrifying – ‘strongly polluting’ plants. So here we're talking about people trying to create viable districts, making sure you have something to do, making sure there's light in the houses around the whole of District Norway. So the game that comes with this post is the Center Party, and I hope people remember that. Norway is and shall remain a leading maritime jurisdiction. The success story of salmon and trout rearing shall be cultivated, crushed and further developed. We are the world's largest producer of Atlantic salmon and exported last year 1,1 million tons, much more than our closest competitors. Export income from salmon farming was last year's 67.8 billion. kr., and new records are set year after year. The Marine Farm Fund has created district municipalities there, among others. The centre party sits in the chair with rapporteurs, has been given considerable resources to ensure kindergartens, school places and nursing homes, and that there are plumbers, electricians and the possibility to actually live in the districts. Through the traffic lighting system, we have established a predictable capacity adjustment system in the aquaculture industry by abandoning what was previously sporadic and unpredictable allocation rounds with varying award criteria and conditions, so that a more tidy system is now based on objective criteria. Today’s aquaculture industry is characterised by significant innovation. This is true of the more traditional developments in construction and equipment, but we also see that the large mega currents using ‘big data’, digitisation, automation and ‘Internet of Things’ are beginning to fit into the industry. We have a challenge. That's not all that's rose red in the industry. We're going to keep working on it. We're supposed to be supervising. The industry shall be sustainable, for the market demand also sustainably produced salmon, and that we shall document it. Nevertheless, we have a tremendous potential within this industry. It will continue to grow, but in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2251	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is going to be equal to 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2267	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2279	The cancellation is then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2290	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to carry out an investigation into the possibilities of Ullevål to develop and collect the business in Oslo University Hospital, so that the plot options can be compared, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Any plans for the sale of land on Ullevål shall be suspended until such time as they are implemented.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2316	There is a vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to give priority to the work on a new local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen on Aker.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2340	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2352	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2361	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 3, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 4, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that electrification of previous construction steps on Johan Sverdrup takes place by the development of sea winds, not by electricity from land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2391	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to phase out the Norwegian oil and gas industry gradually and on a scheduled basis over a 15-year period, and to stop the call and grant of new exploration and extraction permits.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2408	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the development of the second construction steps of the Johan Sverdrup field, while requiring companies to continue to develop the area resolution for power from land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2423	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the environmental assessments of the hearings carried out by the Ministry of Oil and Energy in relation to the granting of extraction permits for petroleum activities are publicly available.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2465	It's going to be voted on first over I and III. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2479	President! I had to vote in favour. It was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2484	It is corrected, and then there are 89 votes in favour of the committee's vote and 8 against. It shall be counted against II. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2500	It is added over IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2518	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 4, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 5, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6-9, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-9, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal on how owners of commercial buildings can be given an incentive to implement energy efficiency improvement measures through higher depreciation rates.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a pilot project in which households using more than 15 pst. of disposable income on energy expenditure, or alternatively with a total income below 5G, receive financial support and energy loans to implement additional measures.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a reward scheme for the municipalities according to how many kWh they have saved in their own building mass. The scheme must be simple and unbureaucratic and also reward the municipalities that have previously implemented measures.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an appropriate test project in which energy and power reduction measures are applied in an area as alternatives to upgrading local trafo and line networks.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2568	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive review of the ENØC scheme, where energy savings, new energy production and tariffs are seen in the context and an assessment of whether the scheme is or should be amended and updated in accordance with the objectives of increasing energy efficiency in both private and public buildings.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2587	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a pilot project with the support of craftsmen offering energy efficiency measures, with the aim of launching a market for energy efficiency improvement among housing owners to repair and clean up their housing.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2604	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to set a target of 40 pst. energy efficiency improvement by 2030 in the context of the implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive in Norway.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to issue an energy loan scheme for energy efficiency measures through the Husbank, which may be granted in combination with, or independently of, Enova grants.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asking the government to establish a long-term strategy for the rehabilitation of buildings to passive level by 2050. The strategy shall include a roadmap of measures and measurable indicators for progress and milestones in 2030, 2030 and 2050.’» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e2653	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e3364	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e3373	Case No. 10 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the law decision 54. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-29.ana.ud330e3409	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
