ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e62	The representative, Kari Henriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East-Agder: Kristine Hallingstad For Akershus: Anne Kristine Linnestad For Buskerud: Iselin Haugo For Uppland: Indigenous Thon Hagaseth For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai and Geir Hågen Karlsen For Sogn and Fjordane: Steinar Ness and Trude Brosvik For South-Trondelag: Marte Løvik For Vestfold: Renate Silver Berge For Eastfold: Elin Tvete and Bears Laabak From the Workers' Group there is a notice that the permit granted to the representative Else-May Norderhus 9-13 has been granted. December has been withdrawn. This notification shall be taken into account. A number of permit applications are available: by Mr Espen Barth Eide on leave from 10 December onwards. 15.30 until 13 December and from the representative of Liv Kari Eskeland on leave from 10 to 12 December, both for participation in the 25th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the meetings of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, COP25, in Madrid on the leave of the representative Bente Stein Mathisen on 10 and 11 December to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Copenhagen and on the leave of the representative Vetle Wang Solheim on 10 and 11 December to attend meetings of the Council of Europe in Paris from the Working Party on the Welfare Permit of the Representative of Ingvild Kjerkol from 10 to 13 December and on the leave of the representative of Eirik Sivertsen from 9 to 12 December to attend meetings of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in New York and Washington DC On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus: Kjartan Berland 10-11. December For Hordaland: Sigurd Hille 10th-12th. December For More and Romesdal: Anders Riise 10–11. December For Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 9–12. December For Oslo: Didrik Beck 10 December at 10 a.m. 15.30 to 11 December and Zaineb Al-Samarai 12–13. December For Nord-Trøndelag: Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan 10–13. December
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e202	Kjell-Idar Juvik is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e213	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e218	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Arne Nävra and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on closed leisure and teaching arrangements for overnight stays in religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e223	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee, the cases shall be dealt with. 1 and 2 as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e257	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines will be given with replies after submissions by the main number of parties and eight lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Then Mr Knag Fylkesnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e270	The ongoing crisis in the air ambulance service, which escalated on weekends, has not been raised in the debate proposed by the Health Committee. Of course not – this happened on the weekend, they came up with their proposal before. In order to actually get time to get answers to important questions for a large part of the population and get clarifications from the government and a proper debate on this, I urge the Presidency to deviate from the debate and make it more liberal by introducing free speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e275	The President believes that the Storting should deal with the debate proposed by the Committee, on the basis of which the debate is based. It's the President's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e280	As far as the debate is concerned, it is also the case that the Councils participating in the debate will have eight lines, so it will be a good opportunity to raise this very urgent matter. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for the work that has been done on the state budget for 2020. I want to open this debate with UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 3: We will ensure good health and promote quality of life for all. It's a goal that we have, and I know it's also a goal that Kommune-Norway is working on. That is why I am very pleased that the Municipality of Oslo has secured the Health Centre for Paperless in the capital area, and I would like to thank the Red Cross and the City Mission of the Church, who are driving that action. Initially, I would like to mention that the Committee has listened to the consultations that have been held and has also made changes in the course of the consideration of the government's proposals. We've done that even though we have a majority government. This means that the Storting has not been disconnected. The parties will themselves explain their efforts in their alternative budgets. I will further bring out some good bets. Firstly, prevention is an important field of action in the plan of escalation against violence and abuse. We are now making sure that a nationwide low-threshold treatment offer can be established for those at risk of sexual abuse against children and young people, and we strengthen the treatment of those convicted of sexual abuse. I've met people who have torture and assault experience and heard how they struggle with dental treatment. So I am glad that we have strengthened the county offer to patients with odontophobia. This means that the offer can be further expanded, and the waiting time will hopefully decrease. People with mental health challenges need good help. We have therefore ensured the designation of the individual part of the secondary education grant scheme in psychotherapy and psychoanalysis, so that we can continue to train good therapists in the future. There is a cross-political consensus that people with mental health challenges should have good access to treatment and follow-up. They should also be able to participate in work and activity. Services shall be comprehensive, accessible and individually adapted. In line with this, we've increased the frame to the font houses by 10 million. kr during the examination by the Storting of draft budget. It will strengthen the secondary prevention of mental health work. The font houses are ideal actors that relieve and complement the municipal services with a labour-oriented rehabilitation service. We have also strengthened the prevention of suicide and self-injury by half a million dollars for the work of the National Association for the Prevention of Suicide and Suicide. Eighty thousand young people under the age of 30 are not in work or study in Norway, according to SSB figures. More and more young people are dropping out of school and going out of the labour market. It is important that young people have access to good lowthreshold services when they need it and that ideal actors complement the public utility. PitStop supports young people in school and work, and in Stortinget's treatment we were given a small grant to PitStop Hordaland. The Government has also set up a new grant scheme for actions that contribute to mobilising against loneliness. The scheme has a total appropriation of 18.3 million. in 2020. In total, government grants 43.3 million. kr to be used for work towards solitude. Good health is not the same as the absence of disease. The key to good health is, among other things, in the ability to master. Prevention, rehabilitation and habilitation are important if we get more people with chronic diseases in the future. Then the ministry must be adapted to human needs, desires, and prerequisites. The phasing-out plan for habilitation and rehabilitation has granted 300 million. Total kr, of which 200 million. kr is the growth of free income of municipalities. The main emphasis of the habilitation and rehabilitation services is to be placed in the municipality where the user lives, and then we must also ensure that the municipalities are able to do this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e310	In the autumn, Stortinget has worked with the Raising Plan for children and young people's mental health, which came from the government, and which we have discussed in the committee. The expectations have been great both from the professional community and from the political community, not least from the proposer himself, the Christian People's Party, who put it before the Stortinget. It was supposed to be a binding escalation plan both economically and politically. The trade unions, with the Children’s Ombudsman at the head, have been clear in their criticism. The opposition parties at Stortinget want to send this back to further government work. My question to the representative Bekkevold concerns the 2020 budget, where expectations were also high that this work would be followed up. What are the three most important steps taken by the government to follow up a stepping-up plan, an economically obliging escalation plan, for children and young people's mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e315	That is a good and timely question that the representative Haukeland Liadal is asking. There was a total accumulation that stood behind this escalation plan, which wanted it – promoted by, among other things. Left and Christian People's Party. It is clear that this is becoming important, because it is not the measures that have been criticised but the lack of financial commitment to implement these measures. I would, of course, like the 2020 budget to be set aside so that we could get even more going. Some measures are in progress, but I can promise the representative of Haukeland Liadal that the Christian People's Party will be impatient in the budgetary work ahead, for this is a plan that is important. It is not only important for the Christian People's Party, but it is important for those for whom this plan will help, and therefore it will be a priority task in future budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e320	I hear the representative talking about the important and small stakes, but the health policy in general I don't hear the representative talking about so much, and I'm worried that with the government of which the Christian People's Party is now a part, we get a turn of health policy towards more market thinking, increasing privatisation and more commercialism. Then I see that the representative is involved in remarks where a praiser of free treatment choices because one gets many more good private ones, while on the listener we got the impression that the same scheme stands out the ideals, and the representative is also on notes where he refers to input-driven funding that stimulates cost-effective patient treatment – far away from what I feel that the Christian People's Party has stood for before. Is the representative happy with how the Christian People's Party has managed to influence health policy when they are in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e327	I think you can never say that you're completely satisfied with what you've been given, and it's clear that when the Christian People's Party joins a government with three other parties, you have to find solutions, and some compromise solutions where there is disagreement between the four parties. I am very pleased that in Granavolden we have had such a big impact in order to secure the non-profit sector in the future, and I look forward very much to it being made clear, not least in the mission papers of healthcare companies, that we are going to see more of the activities of the non-profit sector. When it comes to free choice of treatment, it is clear that it has its sides, but it also has its positive sides. There is a Blue Cross institution in South Africa that is able to maintain its operations precisely because of free treatment choices. Now it's said that they take the whole risk themselves, but it's an example that it's done that a non-profit institution has managed to keep going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e336	Today, the issue of the future of Ullevål and the hospitals in Oslo will be debated in the budget without any special treatment – unfortunately. We are talking about the largest hospital investment ever in Norway and, worst of all, the largest hospital closure ever. The Christian People's Party in Oslo supports the fight against the closure of Ullevål, and a majority of the voters in all parties here in the capital mean the same thing. Does the representative agree that it is a democratic problem that a matter of such great social and economic importance is not brought to the national assembly for thorough debate and decision, but instead is left to the health business, with the minister at last? And what will the Christian People's Party's great crowd say to their local parties and vote on the matter today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e342	It is not that we have not discussed this matter before. We have done that, and in the previous round, the government parties also had long comments where we asked questions that had to be resolved. What has been important for the Christian People's Party in this matter is not least to ensure the local hospital situation in Oslo for the population of Oslo, including ensuring continued and enhanced operation and growth of the two ideal hospitals, the Diakon home and Lovisenberg. Then there's also another thing that the Christian People's Party is concerned about, and that's that the investments to be made in connection with the OYS must not go beyond other types of investment in the rest of the health business. I would like to remind you that the hospital director at the hospital Telemark went out and supported this proposal, precisely because he was afraid that the other option would both be more expensive and that the matter would be postponed further, which could go beyond other types of investment planned in Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e354	Health is the whole foundation of good life. Without a good enough health, none of us work. And without a good health policy, our society doesn't work either. For the Workers' Party, solidarity is a health policy that ensures good health and quality of life for all, most importantly. There are fewer and fewer people who believe that the health policy of the right-wing government is good. The causes of this growing dissatisfaction include: deterioration of the situation of staff and the working conditions in the service, failure to provide care for the elderly and privatisation. Then we have this crisis in our head, secure part of the service, the air ambulance, that week after week goes by with the failure of preparedness, and where there was a preliminary climax this weekend. Health and care are among the most important challenges in the country now and in the future. The working party prioritises an increased commitment to health, because it is needed to secure the future for all. Our common public hospitals should ensure equal treatment for all. Through a good financial framework for hospitals, we must ensure that you are always safe to get the best treatment when you get sick. We keep the hospital promise and set a total of 3 billion. to hospitals in 2020. That's a We give special priority to the ambulance service, to the decentralised food supply and to sound mental health protection throughout the country. In order to ensure that long-distance midwives carry a midwife in the ambulance, we propose a grant scheme to ensure that all midwives in the community health service can be increased to full-time positions. The population fears privatisation in healthcare. The Labour Party will fight against a two-part healthcare service – one for those who can afford it, and one for those who don't. We will liquidate the privatisation reform of free treatment options, a system that allows private, commercial operators to suck into our common healthcare system. When we repeatedly underline the invaluable, important role of the decision in Health-Norway, that is not the fine word. The government does not guarantee this good arrangement. We're proposing 200 more posts for general practitioners in specialisation, an increase of 100 more turn positions to increase the number of qualified doctors, and we're proposing 100 million. to reduce the list length of doctors with particularly challenging chronic patients, more use of fixed doctors technologies and better funding for complex tasks transferred from hospitals. The Labour Party believes that all older people, regardless of the size of their wallet or where they live in the country, are entitled to a good and safe care offer. Older people will be the boss of their own lives and that the days will be filled with positive experiences, like the rest of us. They want activity, joy and quality of life. This is about quality both inside and outside nursing homes. We're suggesting that it's set at 100 million. kr for staffing, empowerment and activities, as well as prioritising money to a national effort team to ensure equivalent quality. Full-time culture for elderly care employees is also central to creating a safe and predictable everyday life. We propose a full-time pot of money that the municipalities can apply for. Norway, in particular our districts, faces a major challenge in ensuring the increasing number of people experiencing dementia and their relatives. Security and a good life should continue to be possible for this growing patient group. Day care for people with dementia is an important and correct investment. That is why we are opposed to liquidating schemes that ensure the re-establishment of such daily services, with a priority of 400 million. kr to it – exactly what it costs. When it comes to the very last time of life, we also need to make sure that it feels safe and good both for those who are going to end their lives and for the relatives. Therefore, we propose to strengthen the offer with palliative teams with competent personnel in several Norwegian municipalities. The working party will also gradually expand the public dental service. We will especially protect them with special diagnosis, weak finances and poor dental health for large dental expenses. The government's cut policy here leads to increased social differences in dental health, and we therefore propose to reverse the cut in favour of dental regulation. In addition, we will increase the social benefits of groups who have dental problems after illness, increase the social benefits of those with the lowest income, extend the public dental care scheme to the 21st year olds and half the price to the 25th year olds. The working party is also concerned about the lack of medicines – a challenge that requires specific measures. We therefore propose that the use of emergency stocks and measures in municipalities be extended in order to address the growing shortages. We note that through this budget, municipalities and hospitals are also not able to help addicts who have been through successful treatment. That's why we're proposing 100 million. kr to strengthen the protection of former addicts. The Workers’ Party’s public health effort is a clear alternative to a government that shows that they will not spend money on cost-effective measures that can prevent ill health and compensate for social health differences. We must not forget that health is created outside the hospitals where people live and live their lives. There is an enormous potential, in particular to prevent ill health among children and young people. There will be more movement and better nutrition for children and young people with our budget. A growing number of young people experience mental health disorders, which are increasingly the cause of school and work dropout. We in the Workers' Party will invest in good preventive services and assistance for everyone. That is why we are also proposing 100 million. D to low-threshold mental health interventions in municipalities, to focus on digital youth health and to strengthen the staffing of school health services. The current crisis in the northern air ambulance is becoming particularly serious when it comes to the top of a chronic underfunded hospital economy, a knee-drenched system. That is what really is at stake when, month after month, there is unrest among people, and the alarm messages are coming from health professionals on guard who are facing the challenges of the absence of planes to summon. Then it's people's security and trust that's in play. When it gets stuck, it builds confidence in the welfare state – that is how serious it is. The Minister of Health and the Prime Minister fail both patients and professionals in the north in the way they talk about these challenges, and they simply have a different description of reality than the reports we get from active service. Finally, the one with health has hope, and the one with hope has everything. Good health is the country's largest resource and wealth. The Labour Party shows a bet that extends far beyond what government is willing to do, from prevention and health promotion to rehabilitation and care at the end of life, because nothing is more important than health. I would like to take up the Workers' Party's proposal from the vote. In addition, we have so-called loose proposals, which I will come back to later in the debate. That is the proposal No. 38, 39, 40. In proposal No 38 we propose to secure today's air ambulance service on the basis of the expectations contained in the contract, which we now see is that the operator is not able to deliver. Here we believe that the Minister of Health must use the resources that are available, and that is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e394	The representative, Mr Kjerkol, then mentioned the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e401	When I saw the proposals for changes to the budget of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, I was struck by the size of the budget proposals from the three parties. Here are some examples: the Labour Party will strengthen public health by 30 million. kr, SV has approximately the same budget as the government, while the Central Party will cut public health by 28 million. kr. The working party will strengthen the school fruit scheme by nearly 270 million. kr, while SV proposes the same as the government, and the Centrette will cut by 4 million. kr. The working party budgets the same amount for the regional health enterprises as for the government parties, while the Centre's budget for health enterprises increases by 600 million. kr and SV with a staggering 49 br. kr. These are just a few of the examples I saw in the budget, which show that the health policy of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV is breaking. If the polls we see today are going through the next elections, it might indicate that we are getting a government consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. My question to the representative of Kjerkol is: how will the three parties that crack so much in a number of important budgetary areas find a common government platform in the area of health?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e408	I simply do not agree with the representative Erlend Larsen in the descriptions. He draws out small sums of selected items, but in reality it is a pretty clear direction from the three opposition parties he refers to, who chooses the public health service, not the private one, who stands up for equal services to everyone, no matter who you are and where you live. I would have thought there was a bigger gap between the parties representing Larsen in his government community, when we look a little back in time and in the alternative budgets that were then submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e413	For the Progress Party, the most important thing is to ensure quality and freedom of choice in the care of the elderly, and it does not appear that the Workers' Party agrees anymore. In the Municipality of Oslo, Unicare has now been scared away, which delivered the city’s best health care home offer, which you have admitted yourself – now they are not allowed to deliver an offer anymore. In Austevoll, Stendi has delivered a good offer to the elderly, with activity offers every day. The elderly have had food when they wanted it, and last week they even had Christmas concert. Now the Workers' Party is going to coerce this too, and it's going to be expensive. To pay that bill, the Workers' Party has decided to lay down eight sick places and cancel nine employees in the care of the elderly. What has happened to the Workers' Party, and why are you no longer concerned that the elderly should have a good offer? The only thing to do in the municipality after the municipality is to coerce the older people into commemorating the offer, rather than being concerned with quality or offers. Does the Workers' Party believe that coercive communism always provides a better offer to the elderly, or will you be honest and say that this is not about quality, but about ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e420	In the case of the Workers' Party, the care of the elderly shall be as high as possible, not as cheap as possible. When I hear the representative Bruun-Gundersen, there is a reference to the private logos that have been assigned to carry out this service. We are concerned that older people will get a wide range of offers. When you live at home, you have to get a daily activity offer. The Progress Party is now changing the grant scheme that allows municipalities to provide day-to-day activities for people with dementia. We know that it represents the difference between a strenuous everyday life and a tiring everyday life if your wife or husband has a daily activity offer to go to when you experience dementia. So for the Workers' Party, it's clearly the different offers and the width you can offer locally that's important, and if you've put away the brother part of the assignment to a private supplier, you don't have that flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e425	The Health Business Act was proposed by the Government of Stoltenberg I and implemented from 1 January 2002. The law was promoted almost as a coup in front of the Workers' Party's big group at the time. Resistance to the Health Business Act is increasing among rapporteurs in the Workers' Party who are experiencing the consequences. At the LO State cartel conference on 19 November this year, the leader of the Workers' Party went hard against the management model New Public Management in hospitals. From strong votes in the trade union movement it became black that if the Workers' Party does not drop the Health Business Act, the criticism of New Public Management does not have credibility. Therefore, the Workers' Party will now work to replace the Health Business Act with a Health Management Act which includes, among other things. that hospitals are to be financed in the framework of equal to the local health home and managed by elected representatives responsible to people in elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e430	For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have a specialist health service for all the inhabitants of Norway. We are 5 million inhabitants and the most limited resource we have is access to good professionals. It should be just as good if you live in Alta or if you live in Oslo. This is the main issue of the Workers' Party. That's why it's important for us to keep state ownership of hospitals and regional organisation. And then we're as critical as the representative Lundtigen of the way health businesses have been run, especially lately. It's been 20 years since the health enterprise reform came, so here there's a need to make adjustments for the future. We need to reduce the proportion of input-driven funding, which I think we are in complete agreement. We have to get rid of market thinking, neutral VAT, all incentives to outsource and outsource tasks that belong to hospitals. And then we have to get a restoration of trust and professional judgement, and that work has already started on the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e441	The goal is, of course, to keep people healthy as far as possible. Ensuring good health care for those who need it is central to good public health in the future. We get healthier -- some, but not all. This inequality is a concern that needs to be met, because everyone expects to get quick and proper help if you get sick or injured, and when we go from healthy to sick, we will of course return as soon as possible. That is why we are adopting today a health budget that provides the basis for what is most important in our health policy: patients must receive proper treatment at the right time. The health service in Norway should be based on the patient’s needs, and we provide the patient’s healthcare. Each patient shall experience respect and openness in the meeting with healthcare. It should be that no decision is made about you without you. At the same time, we know that for every year that goes, opportunities are increasing and demands are increasing. It requires that we have a sober relationship to the distinction between what is medically possible and what is actually possible. We are still seeing ethical standards being challenged, and we are not least seeing the economic space being challenged. Large oil revenues, low unemployment and high professional participation enable us to provide world-class healthcare. If we are to maintain a strong health service, we need to be willing to make changes to adapt to a new era of new challenges. It is our duty to ensure the welfare state in the future. Local health services form the basis for a good health service. Cooperation between primary health services and specialist health services is particularly important. The proportion of older people in the Norwegian population is increasing, and the number of persons with chronic diseases and complex care needs is increasing. This increases the pressure on the health sector. We also see that there is still too much variation in the quality of the hospital supply. We therefore rely on the work for more transparency around the quality of services to continue through the use of, among other things. quality indicators and health atlas. Health policy is not just about money. We grant more than 221 billion today. kr to health next year. To solve the challenges of the future and prevent the challenges from becoming greater than necessary, we must always be critical of how we use our resources and how our health services are organised. Money is important enough, but we don't want to find one example of a patient being cured by heads and ears alone. In order to maintain our health care, we need first of all good heads and hands. We need to work in new ways, including: by putting new medical knowledge into practice, adopting new technologies, interacting better and making patients active participants in the treatment. If we are to continue to have a world-class health system, we need to prioritise harder in the years to come. We can't say yes to everyone and meet any playoffs with promise of more money or even more arrangements. It's not in the meeting with the future. So it's exciting to look at the priorities of the different batches. It's particularly interesting to see the Central Party's budget, which is characterized by unrealistic deposits. The centre party cuts heavily in various posts within bureaucracy. At the same time, the Centre, including today's voting, has ordered three evaluations, two new issues this year, a national overview, five new messages to the Stortinget, a new regulation, three national strategies, a new law, eight action plans and eleven investigations – and that is within the health field. How can one be so concerned about addressing new issues, strategies and action plans while at the same time calling for a cut-out of them here expected by the Council of State? If the Center Party had got a majority for all of this, we probably had to build a new block for the Ministry of Health. Neither does the centre party hold up what they promised in the election campaign – no earmarked funds for midwives on the municipal budget and no funds for compensation for women with serious birth defects. The resources to go to both ambulances, local hospitals and maternity wards have been used up only by law-enforcement response times. There is at all a long way between the party's promises around the country about new hospitals, more food supplies, more ambulances, midwives, nurses and doctors, and what's fasitizing, namely that for the third consecutive year, the Central Party delivers the lowest health budget. With the budget we adopt today, we continue to build the patient's healthcare. We strengthen work towards solitude, especially among young people and older people. Next year, we're dropping over 43 million. kr to work towards solitude. At the same time, we have a great deal of attention to the patient role and related work. The budget is further built up under the objective of creating safe health and care services for patients. Waiting time for treatment should be reduced. Recruitment and competence shall be enhanced. We support and ensure a future-oriented healthcare service by raising national eHealth developments and laying the foundation for significant investments in hospital buildings across the country. It is good that today we woke up to the news that we were once again called by the UN to the world's best country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e467	The Norwegian Medical Association believes that the government is pushing the solutions to the fixed crisis ahead and gives anything but hope for a rapid change for the many doctors who are now unfortunately assessing their position. Worst for patients, who notice this, among other things. in the form of longer waiting times. At the same time, private actors offering medical care to those who can afford to pay for it are popping up. After all, there won't be any more doctors of privatization. Is the government party's actual policy to transfer more and more of people's medical needs to private businesses? And does the Right and the Representative of Stensland see what social and geographical inequalities this creates?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e474	The answer to the question is no, and it's a completely wrong presentation that we don't have any attention about the situation we see with the fixed medical system. On the contrary, we have now announced a new strategy to address this problem. There are large sums of money allocated for recruitment, and 39 billion new ones came to ALIS last week at the latest. We have a good dialogue with the Medical Association, and I don't recognize myself in the picture that the representative Hagebakken is drawing from the cooperation of the Medical Association, which is now good. At the same time, we see that there's impatience out there. We see that there is uncertainty in the system. That's why it's so important to get this in place. A good evaluation has been carried out, and we have a good basis for further work, but we need to ensure that we put in place the actions that work best, and that is what we do best in the tripartite cooperation between the KS, the government and the Medical Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e481	In particular, I think that the representative of Stensland is more concerned about telling about the Central Party's health policy than about what his own party stands for in health policy. It is a bluff that the Senterpartiet has delivered the weakest health budget. I know the representative has tried to get debates in the media about this, but fortunately, we have critical media, and they don't serve out bluffs to the people. What he says is actually not true. I can do something for it in my article. I want to ask the representative about the air ambulance service. We've had more debates in the last two years. He mentioned nothing about this in his post, which I heard. It is a serious situation, and his own government has for two years said that this should be done, and that preparedness is better than ever. My question is: Is the representative of Stensland satisfied with his own government's handling of the air ambulance service, or does he take self-criticism that he should have prevented the situation we are currently facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e488	First of all, it's kind of silly to call it a bluff, all the time you can see in what is adopted today, where the sum is highest, and where it's lowest. The working party has the strongest health budget measured in crowns, the Senterpartiet has the weakest measured in crowns. And that's true. On the other hand, it is only a reality that within the same tight budget, a person is going to carry out a whole series of investigations and other things without one being willing to grant money – one is going to cut even. In the case of the air ambulance, I am not in a position where I can complain anything on behalf of the government. It has been promised that this will be addressed in the debate. The Minister of Health is handling this. I think everyone's concerned that it's going to get its solution. As far as I'm aware, there are some technical problems that accumulated especially this weekend, and no one is happy about it. We also have a weather situation that makes this challenging. But I can't complain about anything on behalf of the government. It may need to be dealt with by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e497	With regard to the situation of hospitals in Oslo, the positions are quite clear. Here the government parties will lay down Ullevål hospitals, while the majority of the city council in Oslo will do so differently – they will not lay down Ullevål hospitals. The population of Oslo will not lay down Ullevål hospitals, nor will the majority of Right-wing voters in Oslo want to lay down Ullevål hospitals. To various questions about this, both to the Minister of Health and others, and both from the media and the undersigned, we do not get a clear answer. Would the representative of Stensland recommend his council to force through the closure of Ullevål Hospital across and in conflict with the majority of Oslo City Council and the population of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e502	Now it's pretty obvious what the government parties in Stortinget are going to do. This is obvious from the setting. We're behind what the government has proposed, namely to gather the OYS into one hospital. The most important thing for us is to get started quickly with Aker. If you take that into account in the equation, I think most people in Oslo will get pretty worried if you don't get started with Aker -- because that's the consequence of further postponements. This will make it difficult for the population in the Groruddalen and not least in Akershus. I feel confident – I am absolutely sure – that what we are doing now is right. I note the majority of Oslo City Council, but these are processes that have been going on for quite a long time. But most of all, I'm concerned about a further investigation, about which we had a debate in Stortinget a few weeks ago. It will delay the whole process, and those who will suffer for it are the people of the Groruddalen and what is now the area of the entrance to Aarhus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e514	I am proud of the budget we are now presenting. The 2020 budget has a clear Progress Party profile and shows that the Progress Party in government means a positive difference between the country's elderly and needy to help. Every day we are used to making big and small decisions on behalf of ourselves. It doesn't change when we get older and needy. The Progress Party will have fewer municipalities that dominate everyday life for older people, and more municipalities that recognise that older people are able to decide for themselves. That is why, in this year's budget, we have set up a reward scheme for municipalities that introduce freedom of choice in the care of the elderly. When public authorities take responsibility for funding and quality, it is completely unimportant for us who deliver the offer. The only thing that matters is the quality of the offer, that older people should be allowed to choose from their own preferences. Municipalities that introduce free choice of use in the care of the elderly are now receiving a reward of NOK 500000. Here, then, there is a clear distinction between the Progress Party and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. Where we believe that each person is best placed to make choices on behalf of himself, the left-hand side believes that they are better able to make choices for them. I am particularly concerned about the development we see in the Workers' Party, which now actively combats diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the care of the elderly in the municipality after the municipality. Increased quality of care for the elderly is one of the areas of activity of the Advance Party in government. Many older people today receive food from industrialised central kitchens, and some municipalities order food for hospitals from other parts of the country. This leads to a small appetizing meal and contributes to the undernourishment of a large part of the country’s elderly. We'll do something about that. Matglede is also happy. In this year's budget, the Progress Party has achieved a major effort to bring the kitchen back to health care homes and establishes a grant scheme of 400 million. kr. It is important that municipalities now take responsibility by actually applying for the scheme. I believe that the municipal politicians of the Progress Party will work locally for it all over the country, and I hope the other parties also see the value of it. All our elderly people deserve good and worthy services, no matter where they live. Since 1 May 2016, six municipalities have participated in the government's efforts to provide government-funded care for the elderly, and the results have been very good. I myself have been to Lillesand Municipality and talked to users, relatives, employees and even the financial manager. In Lillesand Municipality, everyone is absolutely happy with their offer. They experience a better overview of the offers and a better allocation practice and have been given to the elderly what they need. The municipality has also employed its own operator to ensure the activity offer. After they entered the trial scheme, the municipality has not received a single complaint concerning the provision of services in the area of health and care. I am pleased that the Progress Party in this year's budget was able to make a positive contribution to extending the experiment further – to six new municipalities. The deadline for applying is 1 February. The Centre provides refresher training for health professionals in emergency care for the elderly, as palliative care for the elderly and as a volunteer coordinator. The Progress Party has visited them on several occasions this year, and we are impressed by the work they are doing. The training they provide is in demand in the municipalities, and the need will only increase in the future. For 2020, the government has put down $12 million. SEK in grants to the Centre for Dignity. I am promoting today, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, a proposal to ask the government to ensure the further operation and follow-up of the Center of Dignity, so that we will continue to have competence in these areas. In the fall, I also had the pleasure of meeting Christian Christensen and Børge Hognestad, who have started the desired transport. It is a non-profit organization that offers a completely unique offer to seriously ill and dying people, so they can get fulfilled wishes and dreams that the public health service cannot meet. They have purchased an ambulance car and designed it in order to transport serious sick people to places or people who have meant a lot to them in life, one last time before they die. The work they do is meaningful and important for individuals and families. For the Progress Party, it has been important to support this work. So I'm glad we've got a majority to grant $1 million. kr for the requested transport, so that they can further develop and expand their offer to several residents in Norway. The main priorities of the Progress Party in this year’s health and care budget are increasing quality in the care of the elderly. That is why we are introducing a grant scheme to establish the kitchen and to continue projects with state-funded care for the elderly. We have incentives for municipalities to offer more freedom of choice, we focus on raising the skills of health professionals, and we strengthen the offer to NPISHs that help individuals to get a simpler everyday life. With that, I look forward to a further debate and to adopting a very good budget for the country's elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e535	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e541	The representative, Bruun-Gundersen, paid little attention to the preparedness of his contribution. I really didn't hear anything about it – and that in a situation where the northern part of the country weeks after, it feels that the preparedness has been reduced, that there are extraordinary measures – helicopter instead of aircraft – that keep the alert. The consequence of this is that the personnel are being over-consumption, and that there is a personnel crisis when you initially had a lack of aircraft and a lack of other types of personnel. This weekend, this became even more serious when five of the planes of the new operator, Babcock, were put on the ground. Nevertheless, the Health Minister points out that preparedness is 100 pst. So he's counting on all of the extraordinary measures. Is this a situation by which the Progress Party is reassured?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e546	The emergency situation in the north is serious. The Progress Party shares many of the same concerns raised by the representative Kjerkol. The most important thing for us is that the situation comes under control and that we have the necessary preparedness for the people. I am not quite sure that the representative Kjerkol should have asked this question to the Minister for Health. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we are following the situation closely, and we are not going to let go of this matter until we are sure that the citizens of our northern region are confident that they have the health service they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e553	In April, Mr Bruun-Gundersen said to the NTB that: ‘Frp fears the new health plans in Oslo may overturn the economy to the south-east of Health, and considers voting against the loan application when the case is to be raised in Stortinget’. Furthermore, it was stated: ‘There is a lot of uncertainty about this project. The choice of land and its location has not been thoroughly investigated and the building loan requires Oslo University Hospitals to increase the efficiency of operations by 2.1 billion.» The representative asks rhetorically: ‘If possible, why have they not done so before?’ And Sylvi Listhaug, at the time of the poaching representative, said: ‘We need to be sure that this project is sound before we can grant the loan of over SEK 30 billion. We are not today». The question is: what's new since April until now, since the Progress Party is now going in to vote for the loan request of over 30 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e578	One of the important things that is new is that the government has changed the loan conditions for hospitals. Providing hospitals with the possibility of annuity loans and a longer amortisation period has released 200 million. SEK-300 million. kr annually at Oslo University Hospital. This means that the financial risk for the project is significantly reduced. In addition, we have received more assurances that the project will be scaled down by increasing the tasks of the private hospitals, the Diakon home and Lovisenberg, which the Progress Party has been very busy with, providing a good health service in this region, and which will receive more tasks. The representative Toppe has read our comments: We have downgraded the project, we have got a new investigation of the Ullevål option, and even though the Progress Party primarily wanted a full investigation, so it was possible to compile, at least the lighting of this showed that by choosing Ullevål as a plot option, the project would take seven years longer and cost 12.8 billion. kr more. It's in each of the moments that have changed since April.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e585	I would also like to ask the representative Bruun-Gundersen about Ullevål Hospital. We heard the representative of Stensland's posts instead of the line-up. He was quite indirect, but still quite clear that Ullevål Hospital should be closed – in conflict with what the Oslo City Council wants, and also what the Oslo people want. It may not be so difficult for the Right, because they have the Right with them on the City Council, but the representative Bruun-Gundersen doesn't have his people with him on the City Council. The progress party in Oslo is opposed to laying down Ullevål Hospital. I would like to ask: what does the representative think about democracy in it that we from the Storting should outrun the majority in Oslo City Council, and that the Progress Party in Stortinget is overrun by its own city board group?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e592	It is not the case that Stortinget has the intention to overrun Oslo City Council in the regulatory planning process in which they are now involved. It is Oslo Municipality that is planning authority, which is going through the regulatory planning processes that need to be implemented for new hospitals. That work, at least I or the Progress Party on Stortinget, do not intend to interfere with us. We're waiting for the result. The Progress Party agrees that the economic risk of the Oslo project has been important to control. So this is a huge project, perhaps the largest country-based project in Norway's history. It is absolutely essential that we have control of the economy, so that it does not go beyond patient treatment. We in the government have been able to change the loan terms and conditions, which release $200 million. SEK-300 million. kr annually for Oslo University Hospital. It has significantly reduced the financial risk. We're going to follow that process further. The most important thing for us is that the citizens of Oslo will get a good health offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e601	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e606	Norwegian health services are at a crossroads. If we are to stop the development of a two-part healthcare system and increase social health inequalities, we need a new health policy – a health policy that ensures equivalent health services and safe health care throughout the country, a health policy for elected government instead of undemocratic bureaucracy, a health policy that focuses on prevention and better public health policy. Norway has a well-developed health care system, but now developments are going in the wrong direction. We have a permanent crisis in Norway. We have an air ambulance crisis in Norway. There are torch trains for maternity wards, follow-up services and emergency services. Norwegian hospitals will break the Work Environment Act over 500,000 times this year. It's a new record. The evening post has surveyed human rights violations and has been selected in the care of the elderly. VG has documented failures and failures in the follow-up to the interaction reform. This shows a healthcare service that is no longer valuable, but money-driven. So we need a new health policy. The centre party will reverse the market correction and take the subject and values back to the Norwegian health service. The Central Party's alternative government budget is just moving in such a direction, as an alternative to government policy for more centralisation, privatisation and market thinking in health. The centre party prioritises prevention and public health measures, such as physical activity in the school and free fruit and green for the elephants. We're strengthening the hospital economy for the public hospitals by 1 billion. kr and will remove the system of unit-price financing for patients. We prioritise birth and maternity care and a strengthened ambulance service to ensure people's security for the important services, and we propose a boost for mental health protection, with ear-marked resources for children's and youth psychiatry and district psychiatric centers. The crisis in the system is the wart of this government's watch. The scheme is the foundation wall of our municipal health service. Recruitment failure is now serious, and the doctor's shift from the scheme has reached the big cities. The centre batch proposes 400 new settings for specialisation general practitioners next year. In addition, we propose 160 new rotational settings for hospitals, LIS1. The central party strengthens the municipal economy by 2.5 billion. kr to provide the municipalities with the necessary framework to provide good health services close to people's homes. We propose a new investment grant to municipalities that will establish security housing for the elderly. We have dedicated efforts to work on antibiotic resistance, drug shortages and related work. We prioritise funds for the Foundation's Organ Donation and for the peer work in various areas of health services. The centre party is opposed to the loan application for a new Oslo University Hospital. Borrower's grandmother's on $29.1. kr in the first phase. It's the biggest hospital investment ever in Norway. The process has been strongly criticised, and the proposal has been met with unison resistance and strong concern from all membership organisations and patient and user organisations. The process has been criticised for not being in line with the state's own early phase supervisor for hospital construction. The Health Minister’s decision at a closed business meeting in 2016 is today leading and hindering the thorough and serious settlement of the Ullevål option. The proposed comprehensive development option at Gaustad was rejected by the previous Managing Director of the OUS, Siri Hatlen, as early as 2010. The business plan was not submitted before the model selection was made in the company meeting. There has been considerable criticism of land selection and the regulatory risk. Criticism has also arisen because the proposal will not meet the capacity challenges in the region as a whole. Aarhus is undersized, and Aker will not be able to become a local hospital for the whole of the Grorud Valley for many, many years. In addition, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the economy of the project. The construction plans have led to a strong increase in the efficiency of operations prior to the expansion and to a significant fall in the profitability of the health care business. Not least, strong professional criticism has been raised for a new structure, especially from the trauma environment, since the proposal means a division of existing, strong professional environments. A multidisciplinary working group with Eilif Holte at the top presented in April this year the report «Parksy Hospital Ullevål». The report shows that the Ullevål plot is far more suitable for hospital construction than Gaustad. The Park Hospital – which is also the Central Party's alternative – is 20 billion. kr cheaper than building on Gaustad. The central party therefore proposes to plan the hospital development in Oslo around a model where Ullevål is being expanded as a large emergency hospital with trauma centre, Aker hospital being a new local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen, the Radium hospital being maintained as a specialised cancer hospital and the Rikshospital being maintained unchanged for national and regional functions. In later phases, there may be a collection of the functions of the Rikshospitalet on Ullevål. There is today a large plurality in Oslo to keep Ullevål hospitals, as we suggest. Seven out of ten Oslo residents support the Center Party in this matter. The majority in Oslo City Council supports the Centre Party in this matter. I just want to say that even if we lose this thing in Stortinget today, it is not the last word to say, and in 2021 there is a new big choice. Air ambulance preparedness in the north is in crisis. In a short time, a very good and safe air ambulance service has crashed due to a scandalous supply process and incompetence in the healthcare establishment. We have a government that has let this happen, and a government council that has not taken the necessary responsibility. The chaos we have now, be warned. The situation seemed to be without political control. Yesterday, five out of eleven aircraft were on the ground, four of them because of motor fraud. Babcock does not know what this will cost, or when the flight is back in normal operation. And the worst thing is, they don't know what's going on. The failure was already known in August. It was not until December that the plane was put on the ground. Earlier in the fall it was known that the plane had a navigation system that did not operate north of 70 degrees. It made it difficult to land in the dark and by poor visibility. In addition, the pilot shortage, which has been known and warned for almost two years. The situation is dramatic. The Minister of Health and the Government did not understand the seriousness of the situation. There has been a political prestige in this matter. The Minister of Health has defended the procurement process and the contract from day one. The contract was to provide better services, but at a reduced price. It's been like it had to go. The centre party first addressed this matter in Stortinget in January 2018, two years ago. The majority decided in June 2018 to ask the government to secure air ambulance preparedness across the country and to evaluate the supply process. It is regrettable that none of these decisions have been followed up. The service is not stable and candid today. That's obvious. Understandably, people in the north are provoked when the Prime Minister is standing in Stortinget and claims that preparedness is strengthened, and the Minister of Health writes that preparedness is over 100 pst. In reality, readiness is strongly pressurized. Nordlys reports frustrated pilots, rescue nurses and a population that fears that life and health are not defended. The UN Director tells of health professionals who make their best efforts to provide patients with a defensive offer in the demanding situation they face. Legs stand out and tell of total unworthy and long car ambulance transports of very ill patients — children and the elderly. Scheduled operations are delayed and the beds are fully filled. The centre party now demands that Health Minister Höie get on the track and take the necessary responsibility. We propose today that the State take over the air ambulance service, and that the contract between the air ambulance service HF and Babcock be cancelled as a result of the fact that the company does not have the ability to deliver air ambulance standby in line with the contract. The HF Air Ambulance Service has shown that they have not had control or necessary competence in this matter. The government must ensure both short-term and long-term measures to make this critically important emergency service stable and prudent. We suggest that the five ambulance flights belonging to the previous operator be deployed, if necessary, in the service together with the Defense helicopter, as immediate action. We also propose an external independent review of the entire air ambulance supply and the operator change process. With this, I'm going to deal with the suggestions of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e654	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e661	I rammed into my post a long list of things the Center Party had voted for in Stortinget. It is so long that I will not repeat it here, but there are a number of investigations and plans and various things that are orders from Stortinget to the government that the Center Party wants to carry out. I have a question for the representative Toppe: would one, if adopted, get more bureaucracy or less bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e666	The proposals that we make and are in the Great Britain are going to get better services out to the people. It's not the kind of bureaucracy we're looking to reduce. We're trying to reduce pointless things that you're doing in the department, for example. to allocate payment schemes for free treatment choices, on which they use a number of resources, and to allocate a system in municipalities for free choice, the Patient Rights Directive. And we're busy stopping spending money, as one has now done in e.g. the supply of air ambulances. There is also a lot of waste in healthcare professionals, including, for example: a communication department that doesn't have to have, and an extremely large use of consulting companies, which also takes a lot of money, which we can rather spend on services out there among people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e672	I note that the representative Toppe is not interested in addressing whether this gives more or less bureaucracy. But I can try something else. Much of this is about the fact that the Council of State should follow up, or that a directorate should follow up, or that one should have several government plans. At all, there are few politicians at Stortinget who are more concerned that the Minister of Health should take responsibility for things that happen in the districts than the representative Toppe. With so many new plans, so many new strategies, as many new state things to be implemented by various directorates, will a few more or less centralisation of health policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e679	Everything we deliver from politics, is that one should get a decentralization out of health policy, and that people should get equivalent services regardless of where they live. The issues we have raised in Stortinget are in areas that just need to be strengthened. Take the decision-making system: I didn't think it was right for us to have a fixed crisis in Norway. Then we must ask for an action plan. It's actually absolutely necessary. Take the midwife's offer and the follow-up service: when there is a major failure in the follow-up service, we need to ask the Council of State to take responsibility and make sure that those who have a long journey get what is actually a legal requirement from healthcare professionals, that it works out there. We're forced to take on what's not working, and there's unfortunately a lot of it under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e690	I noticed in the term “memorandous waste”, and I record that the centre party has gone in to cut 21.5 million. kr in the dental chapter of the Health Budget, as opposed to the Workers' Party and SV, which will have significant increases. I can't see that the Center Party will do anything but reverse the changes that governments have proposed, which will strengthen dental services on some points, as opposed to others, where an adjustment is made. Then I wonder if this is an example of meaningless waste. Whose teeth are going to have to be these 21.5 million. kr go out over?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e695	It is now that health and health policies are not only found in the Ministry of Health and Health’s budget. We also have a municipal budget, where there is a lot of health policy and responsibility. What we've done in the dental field is cut in the budget of the regional centres of competence, which have been greatly increased over the past five years, and then we've transferred it to the county council, which is responsible for children, young people and the elderly. We have been particularly concerned that there are very many older people with needs that are not allowed. We also know that the county has a tight financial framework. Then we think it's much more important that the county council increases its framework, so that one can give it the same health supply, which is very important especially for the elderly and nursing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e702	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e707	Unfortunately, the debate today is not entirely what we should have had. It should be about the very foundations of the welfare society, about how we can develop society so as to promote good health in the population, about how all citizens around the country, from all walks of life and at all stages of life, should be guaranteed safe access to good health services tailored to their needs. The health chapter in the state budget is about that, and it does very much also the municipality part, which was debated under another chapter last Friday. Now we have to spend a lot of time on two very serious issues that could really deserve a treatment separately. One is, of course, the situation of preparedness in North Norway and the scandal surrounding the air ambulance services. Here our representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has submitted a proposal and will follow up this matter further in the debate today. So it's the Ullevål case and the hospitals in Oslo, which is also a very unusually big and important thing. We're going to make sure that this historic choice doesn't drown in all the other important health issues. The SV's alternative budget points out a clear main direction. First of all, we want to protect and further develop the public health service and to ensure that as much of the budgets as possible are managed for staffing and treatment. Instead of problem-solving specialist health services and primary health services — hospitals and municipalities — both need to be strengthened in order to allow good interaction. They both need a solid lift. The same applies to the prevention of health work. This is the starting point for our main initiatives. So we're going to get 2.2 billion. kr more for health divided into the health chapter and ear-marked bets in the municipal chapter. In addition, there will be an increase in the municipal framework, which is also largely about the ability of municipalities to provide good health services and to invest in preventive health measures. Many of the challenges in Health-Norway in recent years are due to under-funding of reforms, quality requirements and conversion measures. Hospitals in many parts of the country are struggling to treat as many and as quickly as they should, and so-called efficiency cuts and savings requirements are increasingly dwindling on their means of operation. We have seen this with all clarity in the field of maternity and maternity services, where the dissatisfaction has triggered an uprising around the country, and we see it not least in the north. Last week from the Church Hospital, we heard about a serious manning crisis that is going on in patient safety. And so it's the ambulance flying gear, created by an unhappy and ideologically controlled outsourcing, that's reached a critical level in the last few days. A whole part of the country is experiencing insecurity for vital services. We want a health service where people can rely on the community to provide a safe health service for the entire population throughout Norway. When hospitals struggle with blasted capacity, patients, employees and municipalities are affected, who are pressured to take a greater share of responsibility than they are ready for. There is no longer room for futility in the systems, and many sick and vulnerable people who could need security and tranquillity are experiencing an emergency between hospitals, homes and municipal reception places, which we have also read a lot about lately. On the other hand, municipalities are striving to carry out all the new statutory tasks and at the same time find means of staffing beyond an absolute minimum and bet on preventive work. The government says that the municipalities have enough money, the budget cuts in the municipalities these days tell a completely different story. Therefore, SV will first strengthen the hospital budgets by 1 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Secondly, municipalities receive increased framework appropriations, and we spend half a billion on earmarked health interventions — in the area of rural areas, where aftercare for people with drug dependence must be an integral part of the specialist health service, and on mental health protection, basic staffing, several full and permanent jobs, community health nurses, midwives, dental reform and much more. Finally, quickly to Ullevål. For me who comes from outside and so to say is on the guest screen in Stortinget, it is absolutely amazing that a case of these dimensions has not been brought in for a thorough treatment and decision in Stortinget, but is being added to a bureaucratic treatment in health companies, right with the Minister of Health with the last hand on the weight. Could this be right? I don't understand. I cannot understand that there is no need to anchor such a question in the Stortinget. After all the criticisms that have come from trade unions, employees and the city's population, I really want to say, we can't be involved in this. We shall follow this up in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e727	We get older, we live longer, and we get fewer employees per pensioner. The welfare state will face major challenges in the future, and there will be a need for more, not less, cooperation to find the best solutions. That's why I wonder that several parties, including SV, think it's okay to cooperate with ideals, but not with private ones. The ideals that provide children’s or nursing homes to the elderly are often motivated by religion, which in the past has been a strong critic of, among other things. private schools. How convenient is SV actually with religiously motivated public funded welfare services? Which purpose paragraphs are acceptable? How much diversity and how many partners would it be left for the public to cooperate with if we were to follow the SV's preferences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e732	It was a major issue, but SV is concerned that, above all, the community, the public, should take responsibility for the basic welfare services. Then we look at private ideal offers as a supplement, and we will continue to do that. This also applies to alternatives that are run by the church, for example, which we absolutely accept as part of the total offer. The most important thing for us when it comes to providing leadership for the private offerings is that the health funds should not disappear to the profit of private enterprises, but the crown for crowns should go to health and other welfare services for the population. We think we owe it to the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e737	63,000 fewer are in health queues now than when SV was in government. The free choice of treatment is a major contributor to this. Not only does it reduce waiting times, it also increases freedom of choice and stimulates public hospitals to become more effective. More and more people make use of free treatment options. More than 25 000 have taken advantage of the possibility so far. This means that they come to health care faster than they would otherwise have done, or that they get treatment at the institution they think has the best offer. Has SV at all calculated how much waiting time will increase if free treatment is discontinued? It is not difficult to imagine that health cows will increase significantly if you do not allow people to have that opportunity. It's okay that SV has ideological skylights, but why won't they even buy capacity from the private when the public capacity is blown up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e744	I cannot accept the premise that the queues will increase sharply with our policies. With SV's commitment to concrete strengthening of the budget, a strong strengthening of the specialist healthcare service, I think the treatment capacity will be greater and not less. We are also not free to choose hospitals, but we do not choose the user choice in the primary health service in the municipalities. It's not ideological skyscrapers, it's about managing community money as best you can to develop services on your own. We think it'll be best. But we are to buy services when necessary, in addition to the public health service. It's not true that we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e750	More stringent economic times are announced, with public expenditure from 2030 onwards exceeding revenue. There are wide variations between municipalities in demographic development. Some outlying municipalities will have an age-bearing capacity of less than 2, i.e. two working persons per pensioner. At the same time, a recent report shows the need for some 30 000 new lucky day care places by 2030. If all this is to be covered by nursing homes or housing, the investment costs will be close to 100 billion. kr. In addition to major recruitment challenges, municipalities face a major financial challenge. We in the Christian People's Party believe that the challenges are so great that at least there has to be discussion about and how the private and non-profit actors can be part of the solution. How does SV understand that the notified health and care challenges should be addressed, and is it at all interesting for SV to discuss a welfare mix?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e755	Yes. We do not exclude private non-profit actors, but the resources are limited, and it is despite all the limited resources to be used, whether it is in the public health service that is being developed municipally, in this case, under the authority of the municipalities, or it is to be used to purchase services from, for example, the local authorities. non-profit institutions serving households. After all, there will be no more money to split it up and involve private actors. I guess the challenge is the same either way. Then we see that the municipalities choose to do it in a slightly different way, and as long as the money goes to care, I actually think it's okay. But for us, the main line will be to develop the municipal services in our own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e765	In presenting this budget, there is once again reason to thank the Committee for its close cooperation this year. The factual, comprehensive change of words that characterizes our work both here in the house and not least in debates in other public channels, I feel as a fundamental strength in our welfare society. This does not mean, however, that there are no differences in the outlook for the health status of this country. General socio-economic developments over the past few decades may lead to the need to reorganise health services we are currently considering to be provided. The heading of this government is ‘a sustainable welfare society’ and we must constantly work to create mechanisms that ensure the best possible health and care services and that society is able to maintain and further develop in the longer term. We are experiencing increased challenges in the age structure of the population, as well as in mental health, especially among young people. The recently published child escalation plan and the mental health of young people fully illustrate the challenges we face in terms of the need for early intervention and prevention. Once the plan has been dealt with here in the house, it must be followed up by measures of both an economic and an administrative nature. It is my ambition that the health policy of the Left should be clear, sustainable, modern and forward-looking. Translated, this means not least the prioritisation of primary health services, prevention, early intervention and welfare technologies. In this way, I'm glad that the decision makers are now getting an additional lift. There is an effort left will work to strengthen in the years to come. The situation has to be addressed on several fronts. The system is under pressure. Decision-makers have been given more and more tasks, and the recruitment situation is problematic, even in the larger cities. It is a fact that a large majority of decision-makers want to work in self-employment rather than as municipal employees. Social economy is also a reason to consider this desirable. In the context of today’s recruitment situation and with the increasing expectations of the patient’s health service, a system of municipal staff alone determines the pain limit that the health budgets of the future can withstand in a short period of time. In line with the health policy of the Left, we are particularly pleased with the efforts made by the government to strengthen the general medical service. It's going to add up to 350 million. kr to strengthen the fixed medical system. In addition, an action plan for general medical services in municipalities is to be submitted during the spring of 2020. So for the first time since 2011, the number of LIS doctors, the former tour service, has increased – for the next year with 38 posts, earmarked for North Norway. However, the primary health service is more than the number of general practitioners, and the policies of the Left shall be characterised, inter alia. by preventive services such as health centres, school health services, health care providers and other professional groups continuously recruited in the municipalities. On the left, we are particularly pleased with the efforts that have benefited the Fontenehuset. In the current year's budget, we had a budget deficit of 4 million. kr to this action, which strengthens the efforts to get people with mental challenges back into work. Now the entry is increased by 10 million. kr extra, to 48,5 million. kr. Action in primary health care, mental health protection in drug care and prevention services are common denominators for the values of the intermediate parties in health and social policy. Of course, this does not mean that the efforts in the specialist health service are considered immaterial. We are facing significant investments in the hospital sector in the next decades, with investment frameworks different from what we have experienced in the past. In this respect, it is particularly important that everything is done to ensure that the funds are collected and used in the best possible way, that the medical environment can be good for resource use, and that the economic risk is reduced to an absolute minimum. In this picture, the efforts of the ideal hospitals are included, especially in the capital region, and I am particularly pleased with the signals that have come from the government in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e791	This is probably a budget with chronic underfunding of hospitals. The hospital budget does not allow for more tasks, the whole room for action is eaten up by demographic changes, and patients get older and sicker. Left wants to maintain Ullevål hospitals, establish hospitals in Alta and maintain hospitals in Helgeland. The problem is that the left has no money for this. We in the Workers' Party have a total of 1.4 billion. kr more than the government in our alternative budget. What has Left done to strengthen the hospital economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e806	The most important thing must be to improve the health status of Norway. In this way, it is the Left’s policy to strengthen primary health services — not at the expense of specialist health services, but by reducing the growth of specialist health services. I can't see that the current budget, the budget presented, is destroying such a commitment, and I'm essentially distanced from the reality description that the representative is presenting here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e811	The big issue in this health budget is the loan application for New Oslo University Hospital. We heard the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen tell in the line change that the Progress Party had given up the fight for Ullevål, among others. because the loan terms and conditions have changed. I want to ask the representative Grimstad whether the Left has also given up the fight for Ullevål Hospital, and I would like to hear a comment on what the representative thinks about this process. The first time we get the issue from the government, it's to approve a loan request, and without actually being able to decide on the structure at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e818	Now I didn't hear the representative Bruun-Gundersen use the expression 'given the fight', but I'll let that lie. You should be careful to express your dissatisfaction with finding room for 29,1 billion. SEK to improve the health service in Oslo. I am particularly pleased with the budget proposal for the construction of Aker Hospital. The issue of the left has been and is constantly the same, both in Oslo policy and here in Stortinget: we want an investigation that creates the greatest possible legitimacy for the violent investments that are being made, that we should get the most back on the money that is being invested, and that we should have a professional environment on these decisions, while at the same time reducing the risk of both economic and regulatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e825	I'd like to go a little further on the Ullevål case. However, when the Storting will today provide green light for the closure of Ullevål Hospital, backed up by the loan guarantee, it is nevertheless the Municipality of Oslo that may need to reregulate the property for a purpose other than hospital. The representative of Grimstad knows that the majority of the city council is opposed to closure, so are the representatives of the Left in the city council, and you can expect that you do not want such a reregulation. The representative Bruun-Gundersen of the Progress Party replied that the Progress Party at Stortinget will not interfere with the treatment of the Municipality of Oslo, but we know that according to the Planning and Building Act, the State has the opportunity to review the municipality's possible refusal in such a regulatory matter as this. Will the Left accept a decision from the Municipality of Oslo on the issue of regulation of Ullevål, or will the Left participate in overrun of the City Council, including the Left's representatives, in order to implement a closure of Ullevål?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e833	If Oslo City Council decides to say no to the regulation of both the Gaustad and Ullevål areas, we have a whole new situation. Then we have to take it as it comes. So I notice that in an interpellation, which now exists, the Left joins the majority of Oslo City Council to provide a better investigation. We have to take that situation gradually. It is okay to regulate Gaustad and Ullevål, but it is difficult for the government to regulate the sale of the land on Ullevål. That being said, the primary issue of the Left has been not to rock Ullevål Hospital at all costs, but to ensure that we get a better investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e840	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e845	The increasing class divisions are also noted for public health. One in three has exposed or dropped the dentist for financial reasons. As a result, many who have poor advice also end up with poorer teeth. We have to have a dental offer where it's people's needs that are most important, not their ability to pay. While the government is cutting in mounds for dental treatment under public health, Red wants public, free dental health and is in favour of a dental reform that from next year will provide over a million Norwegians cheaper dental health. Let's put a total of three billion. kr more than the government of dental health in our alternative budget. The health sector is also exposed to the appropriateness of the government, known as the ABE reform. Red reverses these cuts and forces together the hospitals by 1.6 billion. kr. This will ensure, inter alia, that: better manning and also better maternity care. We want to replace the use of rentals from recruitment agencies with permanent jobs, and we want to free the hospital sector from the business model and corporate economic governance. Instead, we increase basic support and are in favour of full framework funding for hospitals. Ullevål is the country's largest emergency hospital with a world-class emergency ward in the country's largest hospital complex. The government parties are now in favour of a loan guarantee that involves the closure of Ullevål and the sale of the land. Seven out of ten Oslo residents want to keep Ullevål as a hospital, and an overall trade union environment strongly warns against the plans for closure. Here is the large number of people in a violent way with the population and with the professionals at Ullevål. The provision of health services cannot be reduced to performance projects. The present plans pose a health risk and are also economically highly uncertain, based on a significant operational efficiency improvement prior to the move-in and further so-called gains after the entry into service of new buildings, i.e. based on discretionary considerations without a business plan. Today, the parties in the Stortinget can do as they have promised, and vote in favour of the Redt's proposal to ‘perform a full investigation into the preservation of Ullevål Hospital, so that the decision on the future hospital should be based on Ullevål or Gaustad is well-founded and sufficiently investigated’ – otherwise exactly the same as has been agreed by a unanimous representation in the Oslo Workers' Party. This is the Workers' Party's own wording, which they should be voting for today also in the Grand Duchy. In addition to health risks and economic risks, the Groruddals population is also failing. In the so-called target image from Health South-East, it is not until 2040 – perhaps – the Groruddal districts are located to belong to Aker. Then many people in Groruddalen will be throwing balls in health care for 20 more years. They should finally get Aker back as their local hospital. Red also promotes proposals today on the air ambulance. Babcock's got a billion-dollar contract without them delivering. It's a political responsibility to make people in the north feel safe again. There are five aircraft on the ground that have been in service in North Norway for years. The pilots who are now flying for Babcock have been flying these ambulance planes for many years. We suggest that the government, for the sake of public life and health, ensure that the five ambulances belonging to the former operator, Air Transport, re-enter North Norway. Now, government parties have to dissuade the prestige and ensure the health of the population in the north, and it has to do so as soon as possible. Red believes that the government could have avoided this crisis of service for the longest time by supporting the proposal that we had in the spring of 2018 to cancel the bid with Babcock, extend the contract with Air Transport, and in the long term provide for a public service. It is good that other parties today finally see that Red was right, and finally follow, but it is something late. But today we can ensure that we do not get a full collapse this winter, by supporting Red's proposal to get the five planes into service. There should be an overall increase in favour of, for the sake of the lives and health of the population. Put away the prestige and use common sense!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e862	Would the representative from Red take up his own proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e867	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e872	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e877	It is a serious situation that five out of eleven ambulances have been decommissioned due to technical challenges this weekend. This is now appropriately reduced to four planes, but it is equally completely serious. I understand that people are worried about the situation as it is now. The operator Babcock is now deploying two Swedish aircraft during the morning, so that a total of nine aircraft are currently being deployed in the air ambulance service. This is the same number of aeroplanes as on normal standby, but some of the aeroplanes have weather limitations due to the technical uncertainties that have arisen around the service's new aeroplanes. This does not apply to the leased aeroplanes, but not everyone is prepared for short-haul operations here. There is a lot of resources in place to remedy the situation. In the past, we've deployed the Defense helicopter, but we've also now deployed extra resources around the rest of the ambulance service. Additional crews have been deployed at the Air Traffic Coordination Centre and additional crews related to the helicopter service, and the car ambulance service has also been strengthened. The emergency situation is therefore reduced and not optimal, but it has been tested to the best of its ability by all those involved, not least those working in the North Health Service. Of course, I follow developments closely and assure myself that the air ambulance service assesses all possible measures along the way and, if necessary, scales up actions if necessary. The budget agreed by the government parties to which the Storting is to be addressed today builds further on the objectives of creating safe health and care services for patients. Waiting time for treatment should be reduced. Recruitment and competence shall be enhanced. We will build up under a sustainable health service by not least lifting national eHealth solutions and providing a basis for significant investment in hospital buildings across the country. The government has facilitated an activity growth in hospitals of over 15 p.p. Since 2013 and the results speak for themselves: We have achieved a reduction in waiting time by 11 days, and there are 63 000 fewer in hospital queues. Digitalisation and technology are key prerequisites for the success of creating a sustainable and coherent healthcare service, and in the budget proposal adopted today, there is a significant boost for national eHealth solutions, with a further 373 million. kr. The next year’s draft budget has increased the allocation of more than 2.4 billion through the escalation plan for the drug field. kr. The plan has led to an increasing number of addicts becoming involved in work and activity, and since 2016 there have been 2,500 more annual work in the municipalities that are now working on drugs and mental health. The government proposes 29.1 billion. kr in the loan framework of new Oslo University Hospital. The expansion plans in Oslo have their background in many old, poor, scattered, inappropriate and partially worn-out premises. In addition, there is an increasing need for capacity as a result of population growth in the metropolitan area. It has also been a prerequisite for bringing together the specialised functions of Ullevål and Gaustad in order to make better use of these important resources. Bringing together patient pathways will also strengthen quality, professional environment, education and research. With the government's proposal, it facilitates the construction of a new emergency hospital in Aker and a comprehensive and complete regional hospital, including local hospital facilities, in Gaustad. A collection of regional functions and specialised functions in Oslo will mean that the growth in the need for health professionals in Oslo will be less than it would otherwise have been, and that is not the least important for the rest of Norway. We have listened to the objections that have come along, and these have been taken seriously, although not all objections have been taken into account. When the project is to be planned in more detail, employees, users and patients must continue to be involved and contribute in a good way. A well-functioning fixed medical system is an important prerequisite for meeting the challenges of the future in healthcare. The government will present a separate action plan for general medical services in the municipalities of spring. There we will point to measures to improve and ensure a modern and forward-looking general medical service, a fixed system for the future. But in the 2020 budget, we are proposing another 350 million. kr in order to strengthen and further develop the fixed medical system, as a necessary measure already in place. The transitions we're facing, we can't just allow ourselves out of it. It's also about working in new ways, using technology, and not least mobilising the patient's own resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e899	The crisis in the air ambulance service is serious. Despite state aid, preparedness continued to fail far beyond contract requirements. If the extra measures had not been put in place, the failure would have been even greater. But exceptional measures are – they are extraordinary – and they are too resource-intensive to be the solution for a long, long time, as they have been. With what the Minister of Health said in his statement about the situation after the weekend it came for a day that five of the operator's aircraft were put on the ground, in addition to the challenges that were before – what does the Minister of Health have about availability and preparedness, as the situation is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e904	I get daily reports on the availability of the resources and assessments from Health North of the readiness, and I have received that as long as we have had extra measures. I fully agree with the representative that we need to move to a normal operating situation, where the operator performs the tasks under contract, as soon as possible. But the most important thing is to ensure the safety of patients, and that means that the government will, of course, maintain additional measures as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e909	The Health Minister has repeatedly said that he has received daily reports. What has been known is that the operator has a challenge of providing sufficient personnel. That's because you have to train them and check them out on these aircraft types. There is no solution until the next calendar year. With regard to the recent days — technical challenges — we now hear that these technical challenges have been known for the Air ambulance service since August. How long has the Council of State been familiar with the technical challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e915	As far as access to personnel is concerned, it is quite right that one has had challenges related to it in the past. Fortunately, a new agreement has now been reached with the pilots' association, which was approved in the roll-call vote, and it will make more pilots available to fly in the north, which has been one of the challenges. With regard to the technical challenges, it's true that they've been known since August, and that's something they've been working on. It is not that this has been kept secret or hidden. It's been working openly with the operator to solve the challenges, but when one couldn't solve it the way one had done before, it was the background for one to put on the ground the four specific planes that this applies to, to get assistance from the manufacturer to try to solve the problem. There is something that is now being worked on intensively, while restrictions are being imposed on the other aircraft associated with, among other things. the crosswind question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e920	The Minister of Health then confirms that this has been known to him since August, at the same time as the Air ambulance service was told about it. So as a replacement for the four short-haul aeroplanes that are now out of service, you put one up – if I have understood correctly. Is it such that the Council of State refuses to use other suppliers when Babcock fails to deliver, and has the Air Ambulance Service possibly negotiated the possibility of using other suppliers in its contract with Babcock? It would have been important for the Storting to clarify exactly those possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e925	We also consider using other suppliers, both national and international. It is part of the action package, if necessary. That means that including the aircraft that are in Tromsø from the former operator, this is part of what is being assessed as a measure. But what has to be done all the time is to put in place the measures that have the fastest effect. The assessment so far from the Air ambulance service has been that it is not what could have produced the fastest result, but it is something that is continuously assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e930	Four of Babcock's new ambulance planes are on the ground. The reason is that the engines cheat at low speed. On landing it is low speed. Anyone who knows a little bit about engines knows what it means when the engine cheats. One loses power. Here we're talking about planes that lose power on one of the two engines. Then it is difficult to keep the course straight ahead on landing. It's deadly. We have a short-distance network with short, narrow runways. So the council says now that this has been open and known since August. That's not right. That's wrong. But then, if that's right, why aren't all the planes put on the ground by the management of Babcock right away, when we're in such a critical situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e935	This is simply because these are aero-technical assessments made by the company together with its pilots and in close contact with the Air Safety Authority. It is in the situation in which the assessment of the appropriate measures is carried out. When one according to the operator does not know about this fault from other similar aeroplanes operated, one on the weekend chose to put on the ground four of the aircraft that have this specific challenge, while one imposed restrictions on the other. It is a right decision that I am very concerned that one does not criticize the company for, for one must always leave the safety of those on board the plane – employees, health professionals and patients – to be the most important thing. If there's doubt, one should put the plane on the ground, like one did on the weekend.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e940	The state council now does, is completely turning the matter upside down. Security is and will not be taken care of. The Council of State now says that he is familiar with, and that the Air Safety Authority is aware of, that there is an unknown error on new aircraft – an unknown error that makes one of the engines cheat, which makes it very demanding when landing, and then the management of the company has not intervened and put the aircraft on the ground immediately. Now only the four are on the ground – not the five others. Can the Council of State confirm once again that one was aware of this seriousness that we are facing, and still has not been informed that the planes are being put on the ground, so that safety is ensured? Because it's number one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e945	I perceive that security has been maintained all the way. Therefore, concrete assessments have been made since one became familiar with the problem – both by the operator, one has cooperated with the employees about it, and one has had the supplier of the planes since one became familiar with it. These are air operations assessments made by those in charge. I don't think either Lundtigen or I'm going to try to go in and try this out, because I don't think he or I have enough competence in aviation safety or engines in aircraft to try out that kind of assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e950	While the Council of State claims that there is a hundred percent preparedness, there have been a number of examples that there are patients who are not being picked up until too much time has passed. For example, tell the municipal doctor in Kjøllefjord, Jan Eggesvik about a lung and heart disease patient who had to wait eleven and a half hours before help came, and about small children who, when suspected of brain bleeding, have to wait three and a half hours – too long. According to Eggsvik, he has never experienced anything like it in 35 years as a candidate, of this 30 years as a municipal doctor. Is it the case that the people of the north now are going to be watered into a worse offer than what one had before the change that the council had before, when one went over to Babcock as an operator?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e955	The answer to that is no. That is why we make clear demands that Babcock comply with the contract, and the total contract currently concluded is a better contract than the old one in terms of preparedness. When the contract is fulfilled, there will be better preparedness and not worse preparedness. But as long as the supplier does not fulfil the contract, we have put in extra measures. As the representative had said, before this weekend's event, the preparedness in Troms and Finnmark was over a hundred percent, precisely because extra measures have been put in place. With this service, there will always be situations where you have to prioritize between different types of tasks. If an aircraft has been on a long mission, it will be put on the ground because the crew must rest. It may also be due to weather conditions. There are a lot of different relationships that play in. It is therefore not the case that the air ambulance alone carries standby, either in Norway or in the North. It is the overall preparedness that is crucial for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e962	The same has been said – that it will be better tomorrow – since this agreement was signed and there is no sign of any improvement. There's a problem with technical equipment, there's a problem with staff, there's a worry message from the Medical Association and the Nursing Association, there's a local alarm, and kids and adults don't get the help they need. How long should one then wait? We have asked – in the media and now also formally – for a proper distribution in Stortinget. In this respect, the Council of State answers that a distribution will go beyond the important work to be done — knowing that the Council of State has received daily updates on the situation of the enterprise, without having lost the job to be done. When does the Minister of Health realize that the Stortinget, the Norwegian people and, in particular, those in Northern Norway who are totally dependent on these services, will get a proper statement from the Council of State on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e969	I have said that I am going to explain the Storting in an appropriate way and at an appropriate time. But I think it's very clear that SV's wish that today I would put the people who are now working to deal with the situation, to prepare a statement for the Stortinget, would be a completely wrong priority, precisely because it would have gone beyond the work of securing the people of the north a good enough preparedness. That is what is wrong with the priority of SV in this matter. I believe that the Storting will get a thorough explanation, but then there must be something more than just telling you what the situation is today, because I can do that through this round we've had in Stortinget. I knew I was going to the Storting, and I wanted to answer questions about what we know here and now. But a statement will require something more, and the people who are going to make that statement and make the basis for it, are the same people who are now working to deal with the situation. Then it would be completely wrong to give priority to letting them now work with replies to the Storting rather than dealing with the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e977	The ambulance plane crisis is now acute. There are five fully equipped ambulances ready at Tromsø airport. They flew safely until July 1. They can land on all runways and have none of the restrictions that are now imposed on Babcock's own aircraft. They should, in our view, be rented in immediately so that we get a proper preparedness during the winter. This took up Red with the Minister of Health on 6 November. Red was then told that Red would primarily secure the company Air Transport as much money as possible. It's a record bomb. We want the state to take over the service in the long term. So it was a very demeaning and contemptuous response to those who are affected by the crisis in the north. I now want an answer as to whether we should not only get an assessment, but also get action from the government in relation to the five fully equipped ambulances at Tromsø airport. Will the government now have them hired to remedy the crisis, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e986	As I said in a previous answer, it is one of the measures that is continuously assessed, but it must then be assessed what gives the fastest effect. If this is an action that will take more time and resources before it actually takes effect, compared to the measures that are now in place, I do not think it is a wise solution. But we have a completely relaxed relationship with who contributes to solving these challenges. If the solution is to use the five planes, it's all right for me. I have said that this is also one of the measures to be assessed. But we have to be sure that this is the action that has the fastest impact. If it doesn't, it's not a good idea to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e991	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e996	In Norway, we have good health services. Our citizens get services of good quality, and the provision of health is well available. The state of health in Norway is good, we have high life expectancy, and we have low mortality after cancer, heart attacks and strokes. At the same time, there are also several challenges and improvement points. It is our responsibility to ensure that our children can have the same or even higher expectations of their health, well-being and care than we have today. Our common main challenge will be to use our resources in such a way that it extends to all of us. Japan is the country in the world that first met the challenges of an ageing society, where 28 pst. the population is over 65 years of age. The country is struggling with a lack of care for the elderly, and they feel that family members have to stop working in order to care for the elderly. The forecast for Norway says in 2060 that part over here will have risen to 19 pst. on a national basis. The challenge will hit the districts hardest, mainly because of demography. There are more older inhabitants in the counties such as Telemark, Oppland and Hedmark than there are in Oslo. And when we know this, it's obvious that the red-green high-tax solution is not a one-sided response to ensure our common well-being, health and care. Applying new technologies and innovation in the care of the elderly will be central to providing good care to the elderly when we know that there will be relatively fewer in working age. The 2020 budget represents a significant boost for national eHealth development with an additional 131 million. kr for the implementation of a national health analysis platform and SEK 84 million. to improve patient safety and interaction with standardised languages. Norway is far ahead. We have the very best intentions to succeed in innovation and more use of technologies in health services. This will be necessary in order to be able to maintain overall care provision, not just for the elderly group. Right is the concern that we're going to continue to learn. Municipalities have an important role to play in securing a secure future for their citizens. No one will be able to cope with this raised issue, and our ability to interact and share competences between different resource groups will be very important. The business community is forced to let go. We also need to learn from other countries. The government suggests 138 million. to strengthen the management and operation of national e-Health solutions and the Health Network. The proposal establishes a new funding model with the co-financing of the management and operation of existing national eHealth solutions from 2020. At the same time, privacy should also be strengthened through better transparency services, better opportunities to provide and withdraw consent and better traceability of the use of the information. The aim is to improve the use of Norwegian health data while at the same time being able to maintain both privacy and security, that it is strengthened. The Technology Council's report on technology and care for the elderly referred to Vesterås, who has been a pioneer in welfare technology. Their calculations show that for every penny invested in such technology in our homes, the municipality gets 5 kroner back. Central to the initiative is that the need for the individual is at the centre. For example, mobile alarms are cost-effective. Last, but not least, the most positive effect is that users are getting more satisfied, and that both them and their relatives feel safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1013	We live longer, and we become more and more older. That is one of the greatest successes in our welfare society. Many talk about an ‘fire wave’. It almost sounds like older people are going to flush into our country and make trouble. It's not like that. Most elderly people are self-reliant and resources that contribute to the community. Many older people also provide more services in need of care in the years to come. Through the Lifelong Reform, the government will help to increase the quality of the municipal health and care sector and to equip municipalities to provide good services in the future. I am therefore pleased that there is a great deal of commitment to the reform of the municipalities and that many municipalities are doing well in the reform work. Malnutrition is a problem for many older people. The government is concerned that older people will receive food that stimulates appetite, that more older people will get good food and home-made food. That is why we now have a grant scheme in place to get the kitchen back in several hospitals. The grant shall have an overall commitment framework of 400 million. kr. Sharing competences is important in healthcare services. We know that those who receive health care in the municipalities often have complex diseases, such as the atrocious disease ALS. It is therefore important that both health care and home care workers are increased by, inter alia: hospital accommodation, while allowing hospital staff to spread their competences and gain good experience by instituting community health services. So in the budget, we're putting out money to try out hospitation solutions. We will also use funds to test out new forms of work and organisation. It is important that municipalities plan that more people will need a health home in the years to come. It takes up to five years to build a nursing home. So it's too late to start construction when there's a need and older ports on the waiting list. I and the government are concerned that older people who need a sick place will get this. That's why we've increased the state grant the municipality gets, so the state covers up to 70 pst. the costs of construction. The municipalities have therefore never before had such good opportunities to build more and better lucky days. We want to continue our efforts through this budget. That is why we are proposing grants to around 2,000 more and better places of care for the lucky day. For the government, it's about providing our older good services – as they deserve. In this budget, we also ensure that we put in place Norway’s first senior ombudsman. John Alvheim and the Progress Party put forward proposals on this for the first time in 1990. The Ombudsman shall ensure that the elderly are given a clear voice which can speak their case. As we get older and the number of people in need of care will increase in the years to come, it is important to develop solutions in the care services that ensure good and safe services. Since 2016, the government has tried out a government funding scheme for care services in six municipalities. The municipalities that have participated report good results, and employees report that they experience being able to provide users with the services they actually need. Employees have also gained their skills. They understand the needs of users better, and user involvement has been strengthened. That's why we're now expanding the experiment both in time and with the number of municipalities. The municipalities that have participated will continue, and at the same time we will invite six new municipalities into the experiment. We know that many people experience solitude, especially young people and older people. We have to take this seriously. In the budget, therefore, we provide additional funds to support the good work of voluntary, non-profit and private actors in order to prevent loneliness. Next year, we're dropping over 43 million. kr to work towards solitude. Through this budget, we provide, among other things, for example: to allow the re-filling of the halls of several hospitals, to build more and better health homes and care facilities, and finally to give Norway its own elderly representative. This is how we want to help us take new steps to give our older people a good and safe old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1041	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1046	We believe it is very unwise for the government to cut the subsidy scheme to daytime activities places for people with dementia. We're just halfway to the goal of 9 200 day activities. The amount included by the government in the municipal framework is exactly that: half. The working party retains the grant scheme and increases the amount to take account of an increase in the number of posts in 2020. The government expects municipalities to provide people with dementia. Why doesn't the government set up itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1053	Now it is that this earmarked grant has been in place for a number of years, and we have put in several places, but as of 1 January 2020, all Norwegian municipalities have to offer day-to-day activities to people with dementia. This money has not disappeared, as the Workers' Party has given the impression in the public debate, but on the contrary they are included in the framework of the municipalities. That is why I expect Norwegian municipalities to now comply with what they are now required to do, namely to have day-time activities for people with dementia, and to facilitate a varied offer. We know that people who are fragile to bones and are older have a different need than younger ones with dementia, of which I have met many, and which it is not enough just to place in a chair of a nursing home. So here it's important to organize for different needs, and that we get good deals that relieve the relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1058	Governments didn't mention people with dementia in their posts. It is obvious to everyone that there is a lack of ambition in terms of offers to the dents, when one is only halfway to the goal in the frame, and thus has a zero guarantee that the money is just going to a daily quote for the dents. And the municipalities that have gone ahead and been good at applying for grants are hit hard. How does the Council of State feel that municipalities like Gjøvik, which lose 6.7 million. kr, Lillehammer, who loses 4.7 million. kr, and Oostre Toten, who loses 2.9 million. kr, will be able to maintain its good offers? They have been pioneers in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1063	I expect all the municipalities to have a day centre offer for people with dementia from 1 January and that they will make an effort to differentiate it as best they can. But I very much disagree with the description that we haven't done anything in the dementia area. On the contrary: Norway has had two action plans for people with dementia. It's just done an evaluation of the last one, which shows that we're really on the right track. We're just looking at the number of courses that have been held for employees in the care of the elderly, both Demensorgens ABC and Eldersorgens ABC. We have visiting schools and user schools for people who get dementia, which has been successful in the municipalities that have had it. We have had a positive development in the number of municipalities that have interdisciplinary teams with competence in dementia. Actually, it's now 90 pst. by the municipalities that have it. So I'm going to reject the notion that's being attempted here, that we haven't done anything in this area. We do, but of course it's a way to go, and that's exactly why we're now going to make a new plan of dementia, which is going to make sure that we take this one step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1072	I did not say that nothing is done, I said that the level of ambition is too low when one believes that one should be able to roll out this offer throughout the country for the same sum of money as one today spends in some municipalities. You're halfway. There are 9,200 day places that are needed, and we have something beyond 4,000 today. Then there is an insufficient level of ambition. Again, what are municipalities going to do that now lose as much money as what I said in the previous line? What are they going to do? The alternative is likely to have to cut off offers to others who need health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1080	Municipalities receive their transfers from the State. In addition, they get extra money through the tax entrance, which we, among other things, do. I have now looked at the tamp of the year has been very good. It is simply a matter of Norway going well – and I can take my own talk on this. But I totally disagree with the representative that the level of ambition is too low. On the contrary, we have great ambitions, and that's why we are. from 1 January, obliges the municipalities to all have this type of place. Then I believe that we need to work in the future to develop the services further. An area that is important to address is how people with dementia are met in hospitals. We know that too many people are very confusing to come to new places and be moved around. It's one of the themes we're going to address in the new dementia plan. We are going to continue to work systematically to improve dementia care in Norway, and we have to, because there are going to be many more with this diagnosis in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1089	The fact is that good daily provisions for demente are going to disappear as a result of the inclusion now being done only halfway to the goal, without adding more money. This is a serious situation, which even politicians assumed from the government parties, for example. where I come from, Gjøvik, seems very difficult to deal with when someone sees what these offers mean to individuals and their relatives in everyday life. My last question to the Council of State is: How much guarantee is there that the money that goes to the dents today, in municipalities that have gone ahead, will be used for dents when they are put into the big pot? It's probably in my questioning what I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1096	At least I expect you to follow up on having a daily activity offer for dements in the municipalities, as the law imposes from 1 January. And then I hope that the representative Hagebakken recommends to all the elected representatives of the Workers' Party in Norwegian municipalities that they actually spend this money on what they are thinking. The Workers' Party is now involved in managing very many Norwegian municipalities, so you have a unique opportunity to participate in influencing this in the right direction. I will at least ensure that the representatives representing the Progress Party take this with them and make it their priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1101	I heard the Council of State talk a lot about the state funding of the care of the elderly in its contribution. In Os kommune in Hordaland, there is a hospital that is constantly being pulled out by the Progress Party as an exhibition window just for state funding of the care of the elderly. In the fall, two more of them started to propel the Eldrebrül. They went out and told me there wasn't so idyllic in the hospital. They warned about an irresponsible service for demented patients because of weak staffing, about patients who die alone, about guards with only assistants at work, about mistreatment due to high work pressure, about patients who don't get proper dental care, about cold dinners, waiting for food, etc. What would the State Council like to tell those who work in and notify about these services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1106	I believe it is important that the elderly care staff further inform about the situation if there is something that should or should be done about. Of course, I expect the municipality of Os to take this into account. I have registered statements from the management there that this seems to have happened. In the case of state-funded care for the elderly, there has been a success in the municipalities where it has been tried. I would like to encourage the representative Toppe to take a telephone call to or visit the rapporteur, Vigdenes, from the Central Party in Stjørdal, who boasts of this project in the clouds and says that due to state-funded care, it has been possible to build a health centre in the municipality for nearly 300 million. NOK – if I do not remember correctly. It's been a great success. We also hear that several municipalities are interested in searching. What I don't understand is why the Center Party is so opposed to this, which is simply about earmarking money for care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1115	We warn our spokesmen and municipalities against going into this, for one thing that's certain is that it's going to be reversed in 2021. What's the question, is how a council can describe this as a success in the municipalities it's been tried, when we get this description of the reality from the municipality of Us. What was the idea of a state project was just to prevent it. It would not be possible to have such a reality with a state project that would provide good care for the elderly. Once again, I have to ask the Council of State – I would like to show other municipalities, but this is generally the case: how can a state-funded municipality of elderly care experience so much failure in the professional supply and when it concerns the welfare of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1124	Now I think the representative Toppe must have misunderstood how this project works, because it's not like the state sits and controls these hospitals, controls how many employees they have, and controls how they work. It is the funding provided by the State to municipalities, and the money is earmarked for care and care services – for it consists of far more than just the elderly, as the representative Toppe well knows. I record that the municipalities where this is being tried out are very happy and happy. It also shows the evaluation report that has come. I have visited three of these municipalities myself, and employees cannot get enough praise for this – not only for the financial, but also for the way in which decisions are designed, and for how to organise services. I recommend the representative Toppe to take a trip to Stjørdal and the other municipalities that have this project, and talk to them a little, so I think she also finds that it is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1133	I had expected when we got an elder minister, that we had got someone who had really fought for the care of the elderly. I was quite startled when the Council of State showed in the evening post that she was not aware that there has been a violation of the human rights of the elderly over several years, and that there have been many reports now of violence and abuse against employees and against residents. In March 2018 there was a study in Sykepleien, where there are so few employees at work that they have to both dope patients down and lock them in to do it, for example. if you are alone with 18 heavily nursing patients and in addition, the only nurse in 80 patients is in home care. That's the situation in many places. What, then, is the reason why the Council of State and the Government are opposed to setting a standard of manpower, so that we can ensure that there are plenty of competent and appropriate staff in place, so that older people can be safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1138	Now there is a somewhat strange perception of reality by the representative Andersen that I was not aware that there was violence and abuse at home. I don't know where the representative got it from. On the contrary, I have stated that I am well aware that there is violence and abuse at home. I have been responsible for the care of the elderly in Oslo for many years and am familiar with that kind of thing. What I said was that I was surprised at the extent of this. So now we're going to take a series of steps to do something about the situation. One is that we look at this with quality indicators. I believe it is time for more transparency about the conditions in Norwegian nursing homes. We know a lot about the schools our children go to, we know a lot about the hospitals, but we don't know much about the hospitals. I'm also going to look at where this has failed – and the county officials are going to look at the extent of violence in their county – and also look at how to work with aberrations, and which municipalities work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1145	There's no doubt that there must be more employees present, so that when you're sick and old, confused and maybe dement, there's someone there who has time to give care and calm down, that there might be two people at work when a situation becomes difficult and a patient becomes uneasy, and that you don't lock people in and maybe also experience that other patients are being subjected to violence. We do not know that there must be more employees in the care if this is to be successful. The councils said we even have to build more hospitals. Then more employees are needed. Now, the local economy is such that it has to be cut around in most places. It costs to have employees. No municipalities can conjure up, and they have to have finances to employ adequate health professionals, both at home and in the care of, for example: nursing home. Why does the Council of State not want to contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1152	It is absolutely right that, in some cases, more employees are needed and that basic manning is increased. We see that many municipalities have done so, with the result that you do not spend more money, but you get less sick leave and less use of expensive temporary employment agencies. I would encourage all municipalities to take a look at those who have tried this and who have had success with it. Then I completely disagree with the premise on the local economy. So the municipalities have been given priority under this government. What is also important, and as we now look at the tamp of the year, is that we have a record low unemployment – the lowest in ten years – which in turn means that we have a high tax intake, which benefits municipalities. That's why it's important that values are created and that we have good employment out there, because it's actually related to the local economy. Then it's wrong medicine, as SV will, to increase taxes by over 20 billion. This will affect those who create values in Norway and will affect the care of the elderly again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1160	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1165	At the milestone of this year’s health budget, it is clear that six years of right-wing government are setting noticeable signs. The Community hospital has had one narrow budget after the other, far from the initial promises made by the Right, and now the results show itself: Internal waiting times are increasing, and sick people are being printed and sent home under unworthy conditions to municipalities that do not have the capacity, professionals or the economy to care for them. Ambulance services are weakened, and there is uncertainty about the supply of food in far too many places. The capacity of decision-makers has been extended to the gap point – the decision-making body that is so important and that can solve small and large health problems, provide help and refer to it. The scheme is a service in the event of a notified crisis. We've seen it come, and we've said from. Too many ends and too few start in this service. Knock on the door of a fast game, and you'll hear the same story all too often. If the fixed medical service fails, it is those with the least resources that will suffer the most, while those who can pay for it can go to new offers that grow in the market. This government is passive. We have called for a clear plan to recruit several permanent doctors who can have a manageable number of patients on their lists. But the government seems the paralytic of action – yes, it is. There's a pattern in this, of a government that's put out in an ideological galley where the community's health care system splits up, where flat cuts hit blindly regardless of what task to solve, where they look for private offers with good advice, and where there's growing competition for critical health professionals between a health care system that's there for everyone, and private clinics, where personal finances determine who gets health care. In 2013, Health Minister Höie campaigned with a promise. With the so-called free choice of treatment, where our hospitals have to pay for the start-up of private clinics, the need for private health insurance would disappear. Today we have the fasit. It was more than a bluff. The number of private health insurances has reached new records. We're on our way into a two-part healthcare system. The crisis that is now taking place in the air ambulance is becoming particularly serious against this curtain. For what really is at stake when, month after month, there is unrest among people and the health professionals are on guard, is that people's security, basic security, is being challenged, especially in Finnland, where the population lives in a situation where they don't know if there are planes that can carry the sickest patients. When it gets stuck, it builds confidence in the welfare country. It's that serious. The management in the Storting of the vital task of operating air ambulances was highly critical. The State Council's presentation here in Stortinget testified to a process in which the most important disciplines were not heard, and the result was then. Before the weekend, five of the planes of Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance were put on the ground, and we are now reading this morning that the Norwegian Federation of Flyers asks that it be considered to put all the planes on the ground, given the situation that is now in place. In the back of our mind, we hear the Prime Minister's statement in the October debate: ‘It is therefore better prepared in the air ambulance service than it was in the past because we have strengthened the air ambulance.’ It's a mockery of the people who live with uncertainty today. The contrast could not have been greater to the reports coming in, from those who depend on knowing if there are planes to summon, about operations that need to be postponed, and about how the uncertainty now affects life and health of real people. In response to these reports, the Minister of Health is heard more as a press spokesman for companies that have put the planes on the ground than as a spokesman for patients who depend on the fact that there are aircraft in the air. It's unacceptable. The crystal clear message and expectation now is that he assures the Storting that all necessary resources, available aircraft or the Defence helicopters are made available to the ongoing preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1183	The President would point out that ‘bluff’ has previously been charged by the President and is not to be regarded as an acceptable parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1188	The proportion of older people is expected to increase considerably in the coming years, especially over 80 years. Demographic developments will have an impact and impact on several areas of society and will require new solutions and create changes in a number of areas. In Oslo, we have seen that political ideology is more important than the quality of services and the offer to the inhabitants. It is now giving up private suppliers as a result of the strong ideological pressure from the left. In order to support the use of stigmatizing concepts, such as: labeling private suppliers as welfare professionals. There is nothing to suggest that private services provide less health services than public services. At least as stringent requirements are imposed on a private supplier as on a public health home. In the municipalities, it is the municipality itself that supervises its own services. The municipality is both the goat and the oat trunk when they supervise themselves. When the services are provided by private and non-profit institutions, we get an appropriate distance between those from the municipality that carries out supervision and those who provide the services to our citizens. If the ideal and private offers had cost the public more per patient than the municipal offers, it would have been useful to exclude private and non-profit, but that is not the case. Several of the private offers made in Oslo have provided services of at least as good quality as the local authorities at equal or lower prices than the costs of providing the same services to the municipality. When that happens, it means that political ideology is more important to the red parties than the quality and content of our citizens' offerings. It is a strange allergy to private offers and a strange belief that everything provided by the public is so much better than what private people can do. The fact that private offers receive a profit is primarily about the fact that they are better at organising services. It may seem that the managers of private hospitals are better at exercising good management and human resources than many leaders in the public sector, among other things. are aware that private people throughout have lower sick leave than public health. In addition, studies show that users and relatives are as satisfied with the services provided by private individuals as the services provided by public authorities. For us in the Right, it's not that important who delivers the offer to our inhabitants. What is important for the Right is the quality of services and the public funding of the services on behalf of the citizens. Just caring-for-responsibility for municipalities and states is the most important thing to avoid a two-part healthcare system and to get good offers for all of our citizens. In Norway, municipalities provide most of the services to our elderly. But I think that the fewest local politicians actually have a knowledge of the quality of services. Because what is quality? Here's one example: fewer than half of the country's nursing homes have been surveyed for nutrition, while only 16 pst. by the users of home services were surveyed in 2018. The survey shows that as many as every four home residents who receive food from municipal kitchens are either undernourished or at risk of becoming such, while every third resident in a nursing home is either undernourished or at risk of becoming such. How many local politicians have an overview of the nutrition challenges among their inhabitants? I believe that politicians and employees in municipalities that have nursing homes run by private or non-profits have significantly greater knowledge of what is quality in the care of the elderly than politicians in municipalities that only have a municipal offer. When selecting a private or non-profit provider, it is not enough to look at price differences, then one must also choose from quality indicators and have a relationship with what quality is. The experience we have shows that municipalities that have extensive cooperation with private or non-profit institutions about health care and home-based care have the best quality of service. Two of the three municipalities that provide the best offer to the population, cooperate with private or non-profit institutions serving households. In addition, a study shows that private providers of home care are on average twice as long on visit as the municipal service. During periods, the Reds also accept that private activities are being undertaken in a joint effort, as under the 2003 Kindergarten Agreement, where there was a cross-political agreement on the non-economic treatment of municipal and private kindergartens. If we are to manage the expected growth of the elderly and caregivers, we must again encourage a common effort to get the best out of private, non-profit and public businesses. They have different qualities, which together provide much better services to their citizens. We should become a little less concerned with who delivers the services and more concerned with the quality of the services. The public has to pay, and that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1216	The most important thing we do for our citizens in the health field is to make sure that they get the right help when they need it, as quickly as possible and by professionals with competence at exactly what the patient needs there and then. Of course, it is quite natural that a debate on the health budget is largely about figures. However, health and care services are much more than figures or political competition to spend as much money as possible. Norway is a safe country to live in. We've been confirmed that several times. But money alone is not the answer to why we've got where we are. In 2017, The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, which conducts independent global health research at the University of Washington, Seattle, came up with a report that highlights just this. 195 countries were measured between 1990 and 2015, and Norway joined Sweden and Australia in a divided fourth place. Hardly any country spends as much money on health and care per capita as Norway. Nevertheless, in the report, Norway came out worse than countries that spend less money per capita than we do, but at the same time better out than countries that spend more money on health services per capita than we do. Under this government, the waiting time has fallen. 63,000 fewer are in hospital queues. We've increased the activity in hospitals by more than 15 pst. We're now continuing to increase patient treatment, but we're also doing more than that. New objectives will be achieved, inter alia: new technology. In addition to the fact that government parties are facilitating the continued growth of activity in Norwegian hospitals, we are also taking a big boost for national eHealth services. An important principle for the Progress Party is the principle of letting the patient or user decide for themselves. For us, it makes sense that the patient should be able to choose exactly the place and the therapist that suits his own needs — anywhere in the country. 25 000 patients have exercised the right to free choice of treatment, and the scheme must be called a success. The aim of the scheme is to reduce waiting times, increase patient choice and stimulate increased efficiency. By transferring power from the system to the patient, hospitals need to find new and better ways to provide good and fast treatment, and free treatment choices are important, because there are many good private offerings that would otherwise be reserved only for them with good advice. We believe that to be unsocial and unfair. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will complete free processing options. The consequences of this are that it is only the richest who will decide for themselves where to get treatment, while the others will have to thank the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV at any time agree that people will receive. The propulsion party believes that the patient himself has to decide where to receive treatment and whether to be with a publicly or privately approved treatment. For the Progress Party, it has always been important to be a speaker for the elderly. Ensuring a good, rich old age for both healthy and sick elderly people is one of the most important things we put on the agenda. The experiment on state-funded care for the elderly is extended. In addition to the municipalities that are included, we are now expanding the scheme with six new municipalities. I am sure that when the scheme is being evaluated, it will tell us that state-funded care for the elderly gives greater involvement of the users and non-discrimination of services regardless of which municipality you belong to. Unfortunately, we note that both the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will wind up the system. This may be due to the fear of getting an evaluation that says that older people deserve the same good quality of the offer regardless of which municipality they live in. I had hoped that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre could be more forward-looking than they actually are. Finally, I commend the government for focusing on solitude. One of today's major challenges is the growing proportion of people of all ages who feel involuntaryly isolated. Loneliness has become a major public health problem. Three out of ten young people experience loneliness, and four out of ten over 80 say the same thing. There are complex causes of solitude, and the consequences are great both for society and for individuals. I am therefore pleased that the government is dropping more than 43 million. to go to many good measures to combat solitude in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1244	I think it is alarming that none of the representatives from the government party have addressed the current crisis in the air ambulance service, in their posts – none. They haven't mentioned her with one word in their posts. She's completely absent. Only the Council of States itself defends the decisions made by the government. Neither party has any support. We had a good air ambulance service in the districts in general and in North Norway in particular. Now she has collapsed with Minister of Health Höie. We and many others warned and said that the conversion and supply cycle that resulted in Babcock was a terrible idea and would go out on people. We criticized the decision-making basis, we said it was syllable, that the risk with a new operator without experience, organisation and planes was too great, and that they set bad conditions for them to add. But with hardly any margin, Health Minister Höie Babcock pushes through. Now we see the result: there are many serious deviations, the plane is too late, it's too bad response time, it's missing personnel, it's missing equipment, it's planes that can't land where the critically ill are, it's health professionals that tell you that they're scared, it's fixed like their hearts in their throats, it's alarming, it's kids and adults who get health care too late, and it's anxiety messages from both the Medical Association and the Nurses' Association. And in order to close the emergency room, the Minister of Health has put in backup solutions from the Defense and other places, but not planes that have done the job before. It's completely blue when the air ambulance service comes back at a satisfactory level. The Minister of Health is making this 100 pst. coverage. It's creative mathematics at best. We had a good offer. Now it's collapsing. The fact is now that the service is so weak that life and health are put at risk unnecessarily. It's a national scandal. One could have expected Health Minister Höie to meet this in a clean and open manner, but no. Throughout the weekend, he has met it with arrogance of power. He refuses to give the Storting and people a quick and thorough explanation of the situation. He'll do it later in an appropriate way, at his own time, as he says. He even said to the newspaper that a payment would come in the way of the work to be done, and he also repeated that from the pulpit here today. But what he didn't mention was that he himself received daily updates from the company, but it has gone beyond the important work to do. One must understand this as the only reason he refuses to deal with the Storting is because he doesn't have a good answer to give. It's very serious. Had it happened elsewhere, e.g. in Oslo, that people had to wait 20 hours to get emergency help because the government had messed it up, this day was all about it. But because this primarily affects people who are far away, a turn on the arrogance of power. This matter is upsetting me. I think it's unforgivable that the government has flung the readiness that worked, and put so much at stake that life and health are put in unnecessary danger. It is disrespectful, and it is a gross discrimination against people in the districts in general and people in Northern Norway in particular. Governments should have taken action already in 2016, as concerns about challenges related to business transfer came. He should have addressed this in 2018, when we last debated this. But also then he denied, and he used the little plural he had then, to get through the solution he had carved out. Nor does he now want to change course. But we get right from the Führerbundet that all aircraft should be put on the ground because there is uncertainty about the aircraft – i.e. a complete collapse of the entire supply. SV supports the suggestion that one should return this to the public. We also support the proposals to deploy the five planes that have been used for the purpose before, and are now standing and not being used – while the planes are becoming increasingly useless. We also demand that people and big ones get a real deal. We can't understand and understand that we have a health minister who doesn't see the challenge in it, but is more concerned with showing arrogance of power and more concerned with dissuade matters, so that there won't be too much debate around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1265	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1270	When the State finances health enterprises, the State has a powerful governance tool. General and specific conditions may be laid down for the allocation of funds. The size enables large-scale corporate governance by laying down conditions for the adoption of the State budget and revising the national budget. The Ministry must then continue the conditions of the Storting vis-à-vis undertakings. The size may lay down specific and detailed conditions for the allocation of funds. This means that the State can carry out a concrete and tight management of the activities of undertakings where it is politically desirable. Owners can instruct the board of directors in all matters – both general matters and individual matters. This may be done at any stage of the case, whether the case is under administrative review or has come up with administrative proceedings. What I just said is from the motivational text of the bill in 2012, when Stortinget clarified the Health Business Act. It is important from this speaker to state that the Stortinget has not given up the right to govern what is decided in our regional – or other – health companies. The widespread misconception that the Boards of Directors or the Ministry of Enterprise have been given legal protection against the Storting being able to take the decisions it may wish must be clearly refuted. I am not that the Storting should interfere with the current working day of our health companies, but the recalibration of the hospital sector in Oslo with such extensive investment decisions to be made for generations does not mean that these are small things. The size must be incorporated into these matters. On the other hand, we can see that the budget statement presents a description of the future based on the fact that the Storting should not be presented with a complete investigation, where physical and economic elements have been added together to a mature and complete basis for decision-making. That's cause for concern. The size is invited to passively accept the closure of the country's leading emergency hospital, Ullevål, which has a heated trauma center based on excellent specialist surgery in its vicinity. In my opinion, the person who wants to tear up an organization must lift a heavy burden of proof, and what has come so far is insufficiently described for such an opinion. With such a theoretical approach, it is no wonder that the outgoing director just failed to get a common reality with the employees, both at Ullevål and at the Rikshospitale. If the inadequately prepared organisation and construction project is implemented, the realities will subsequently become apparent in the form of exceedances, delays, impaired professional environment and poorer hospital provision. Those who are then in charge will later have the choice of cutting down on the offer or proposing to the Stortinget significant after allocations in the billion dollar class.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1283	Now there is a proposal in Stortinget for which the representative Tetzschner has been invited to vote. That is a good suggestion. We have now heard an elder minister who puts tax reliefs to the freshest and most prosperous among us, in front of a safe and good and quality assured offer to the elderly and sick. Local politicians around the country are told that they have to cut in order not to end up in ROBEK, and this has been the case for many years. They have cut and cut, and then the government boasts that the municipalities have come out of ROBEK. But it's because they've cut a lot of things and maybe the little extra that makes you have enough employees, that you have activity opportunities for the elderly, and that you can help relatives who have dentures in their family, for example. Sick leave increases when you have too few jobs, says the Council of State. Yes, that's right, it does. That is why more employees are absolutely necessary. SV is not afraid of earmarking money for the care of the elderly, we have never been – we are not afraid of it. We believe that we need to label the money we are sending, so that we are sure that they will get where they are going. In the care of the elderly, this is necessary because the government has systematically underfunded very many reforms into the community sector: kindergarten reform, drugs, mental health, care for the elderly — especially resource-intensive services. This government has cut over 1 billion. kr in particularly resource-intensive services. Patients are being printed out with a rather hard-handed printing policy now. It is the same whether the patient is treated in hospitals or in the municipality, there must be employees there doing the services. For many of them, it takes almost a small hospital ward and a lot of complicated equipment, for these are patients who would otherwise die. What happens in the municipalities? Well, they have to do this, but it goes beyond the care of the elderly, the general care of the elderly and the disabled, and not least to those with developmental disabilities, which we talk too little about, and where there are major shortcomings both in the community follow-up and also in the specialist health service. So the description that the Council of State now has of the situation in the care of the elderly is a mere disclaimer. Never has this country and this government we have now, had so much money at our disposal. It would have been completely possible to do as SV does, prioritizing over 6 billion. More to the community sector and earmark very much of the money for the care of the elderly, because it means that the elderly deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1296	Today, hospital waiting times are almost two weeks shorter than they were in 2013. It means a lot to patients who are in line, which means that they can get back to their everyday life faster. One of the reasons why waiting times have fallen is that the economy of hospitals has been strengthened. Since 2013, the government has arranged for the growth of activity in hospitals to increase by a little over 15 pst. In 2020, too, we are creating a higher rate of activity than the demographic growth would be expected. The most important thing is the patient. That's what the health care system is for. It is therefore very positive that there are now 60,000 fewer in hospital queues. Many of them have been treated in a private or non-profit hospital through free treatment options. Instead of many good private offers being reserved for those who have good advice, we have given everyone the right to choose what offer they think is best, and the public takes the bill. When the free capacity is available to private individuals, it should be used. Then it'll be shorter queues for everyone. There is a cross-political consensus that we should have a strong public health service in Norway, which has the primary responsibility for the provision of health services to the population. It is a strength of Norwegian democracy that we agree on the great tasks. We also have a cross-political understanding that we are facing a number of challenges in the future. We get older, and we live longer. This leads to an increase in diseases such as dementia and cancer. We get fewer employees per pensioner, and we get lower revenues from oil and gas. At the top of it all, we have a population that is getting higher and higher expectations of what public services can deliver. If we're going to keep working the same way in the future as we do today, we're not going to have enough people or enough resources to solve these challenges. That's why it's a shame to see that the opposition parties are unable to rethink in their alternative budgets. We have a hospital budget of 158 billion. kr. The major challenges are not solved by increasing the budget by 1 billion. kr. It is easy to see that the money has already been spent several times. We don't get better patient treatment. Free treatment choices, package pathways and other new solutions that both benefit patients and use resources more effectively are essential for our public health systems to be sustainable over the years to come. I miss a debate on how we can think smarter to create the best healthcare system for patients in the future, and ensure that everyone has equal access to equivalent quality healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1309	A small new round of Ullevål Hospital: As several have said, the government will have a large stake in a new hospital structure in Oslo. Ullevål is to be laid down. Houses have to be built. Then Aker is to be upgraded, and a large hospital is to be built in Gaustad, maybe an investment in a place between 60 billion. kr and 80 br. kr. The people of Oslo say no. The trade unionists say no, and the majority of Oslo City Councils also say no. On the city board, you want a new investigation. There is no majority in favour of re-regulation of the Ullevål from hospital to housing. Representatives from the Left and the Progressive Party have said in reply today that they naturally support this, but at the same time they are a little pending considering whether they believe it is right for the government to review any regulatory issue in the City Council. It seems then, as I understand the Minister of Health, that he is ready to review a regulation made by the City Council, that is to say to use state regulation, a type of coercive regulation. In reply to written questions from me, the Minister of Health said that he was concerned that Oslo should be a predictable partner. That means that what you agreed on before, that is years ago, has to be on the right track now. Now there's a new majority in Oslo, which will be completely different, and then we get some interesting democratic debates. Are we going to follow the old majority of Oslo City Council, or are we going to follow the new majority of Oslo City Council? I might have agreed that we should follow the old if this had been started, if you had started digging and building. Now it's still at the design level, and there's still room for us to listen to the new majority, which will be completely different from what the government wants. We have to ask ourselves whether it is right for the government to trump through a decision that the city is against. I want to warn the Minister of Health against that, because I think that if he does, this government will in the future have major challenges in defending the business model. There should be an element of a certain democracy here, but if people – there are almost a million people affected by this – feel that there is a small majority in the company who are about to premise the hospitals in the city, this will of course be reacted very strongly to. Then I want to support Michael Tetzschner, who has just left the hall. What he says, I very much agree. He says that there must not be such a mechanical perception that health care companies should premise for the government and thus just run it through. I think that's very nice, and if he was here now, he would have heard that I encourage him to vote against the proposals that we are now going to deal with today, which are just about bringing this matter back to treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1323	New Oslo University Hospital, for which it is planned, is Norway's largest land-based construction project and Norway's largest hospital project. The project involves new construction on the so-called Gaustad area, new local hospital in Aker, while Ullevål hospital is to be closed. Furthermore, the plan is that the Ullevål plot should be sold for the purpose of readjustment to dwellings, and that the part of the Aker plot that the municipality sold in 2001 should be repurchased. The government has not wanted to go further with a combined expansion of Ullevål-Aker. Professionals with many years of experience in medicine, hospital planning and quality assurance of public building projects recommend this solution. The construction of Ullevål-Aker is probably cheaper, and it facilitates a more flexible – and possibly stage-by-stage – development on Ullevål. The regulatory challenges are significantly smaller. Health South-East has plans for investments in many of the hospitals in its region. The centre party believes that there is a real opportunity for the other investments to be pushed out in time to provide space for the completion of the Gaustad project. In its 2018–2035 development plan, the Hospital Østfold states that from the opening of a new hospital in 2015 to the current date, May 2018, the acute reception has faced capacity challenges and the area should therefore be extended and adapted to the activity and operating model. It has not yet happened. The hospital currently has fewer beds per capita, 1.4, with the exception of Akershu University Hospital, which is located on 1.3 beds per capita. This, combined with future scheduled growth in laydays based on demography up to 2030, gives rise to serious concerns for the access of Eastfold citizens to hospital beds when disease strikes. The giant plans at Gaustad can therefore have a major impact on investment and expansion at the other hospitals in the South and East. There are major capacity challenges at the Hospital Østfold today, and there is little evidence that this will be improved without any expansion. The centre party believes that the solution with Ullevål-Aker will provide room for the necessary investments in hospitals outside Oslo and thus strengthen the health provision in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1340	The Labour Party has shown in its alternative budget what we want to give priority to. We wish, among other things: to give more money to hospitals, hire more permanent staff and provide better dental care to ordinary people. Politics is about prioritizing. The right-wing government wants to give priority to those who already have the most, at the expense of those who have the least. We see that in the budget, where the government tightens up social benefits for dental regulation to many thousands of children. The Minister of Health will not support what he calls ‘cosmetics’, which will contribute to increased body pressure. It's nice to see the Minister of Health get into the body press debate, but here's the minister on wild roads. The consequence of government policy is that families with dental advice can give their children their right teeth, while families with less advice cannot give the same to their children. There are unfair policies in practice. The most important thing for the Workers' Party is that everyone should have equal access to dental care, no matter who you are, and no matter where you live. As long as the teeth are part of the body, it's hard to understand that it's not covered by the fear of the people. That leads to inequalities. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have a gradual extension of the public dental scheme. That is why we are proposing in the budget to extend free dental care to 19-, 20- and 21-year-olds and to give half the price of dental treatment up to 25 years. In addition, the Workers' Party will provide them with less advice, because it should not be the case that people with dentistry do not go to the dentist because it costs too much. It is disappointing to see that neither the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party or the Left have mentioned dental health in one word in their initial remarks in the attitude of the Health and Care Committee, but then the policy of dental health is certainly not something to boast about. In the Working Party we know that dental health is important for a good life. That is why we have given priority to extending the public system and want to reverse the social cuts proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1353	The Workers' Party is taking a power cap for people with dementia in this year's alternative state budget. We take seriously that we can expect a doubling in the number of people with dementia diagnosis in the next decades. In a few years more than 140,000 people will be affected by dementia, and around them there are many families who need support, relief and security. Unlike the government, we continue to invest in the grant scheme for day-to-day activities and set at 400 million. kr for this purpose. We believe it is very unwise for the government to include the grant in the municipal framework when we are only halfway to the goal of establishing 9 200 day activities. The government expects municipalities to set up for people with dementia when day-time activities are regulated from the New Year, but the government does not set up itself. The inclusion of the grant scheme comes at the top of a municipal scheme which is the most stringent of 15 years. We need to take care of ourselves and organise for the many older people who will live at home, even when health poses challenges. This requires that we get new technological advances out to the people. We propose to increase the pot to the health technology system in the municipalities by 100 million. NOK so that we get a change of pace for GPS tracking and safety alarm. We also need to think about housing and look at opportunities to create positive generations' meetings. For many older people, culture and volunteering are important, both as an arena where they fill the days with valuable activity and as a source of help in everyday life. That's why we're going to bet 20 million. kr to the cultural walking stick, an action that has given older beautiful cultural experiences throughout the country, especially older people living in nursing homes. Volunteer centres are central to finding each other by volunteers and by finding each other. The Labour Party is opposed to the inclusion of the grant to volunteer centres in the municipal framework. We want to keep the volunteer centres as a separate post on the state budget and increase the amount of funding so that volunteering can get even better status, in line with, among other things. The Pensioners’ Association and others present as important for local volunteering. Finally, I have to go to the hair-traveling disclosures in the media in the last few days, revelations about how we take care of elderly, fragile patients in our hospitals, and about the state of municipal care for the elderly. Manning's too low. In order to take care of the elderly, the troubled and perhaps the outrageous elderly, people, professionals who cost money are needed. Therefore, it is reassuring that the government's response to the major challenges of the care of the elderly is to deliver the most severe community scheme of 15 years and to continue the chronic underfunding of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1368	Think that the government parties today are going to approve over 29 billion. kr in loan guarantees to go further in the completely insane process of building Gaustad Hospital and laying down Ullevål – against the will of an overall professional community, against the will of the vast majority of the population of Oslo and only with the support of two parties in the city council. Then we can start talking about what all of us who are soaking up to other hospitals in Health South-East think about the crazy investment in the Gaustad project, for this solid investment that is currently planned to cost nothing less than 44 billion. For the time being, of course, all other hospitals in the healthcare company, both patients who need them, the employees and the communities around them, will be financially affected. We talk, for example: about hospitals on Notodden and in Skien, in my Telemark, where the employees are now very concerned. And we're talking about the hospitals in Westfold, in Buskerud, in Oppland, in Hedmark, in Akershus, in Eastfold, in East Agder, in West Agder and other hospitals in Oslo, which in the future will have to be down-prioritized financially, when building Norway's most expensive hospital ever in Oslo, in combination with the huge cost of putting down Ullevål instead of just modernizing it. I don't understand how the government will force this through after so much protest. But it has become a trademark not to listen to people and those who are affected, just forcing through hasardious and unwise decisions such as coercion of states, shut down the FM network, shut down services and training provision in the districts, or making sure to privatize the welfare state, the last in the ambulance aircraft crisis. In the latter case, I registered a very small admission from the Minister of Health in the newspaper in Finland yesterday. Then he finally said that what Babcock now delivers in the northernmost states was not good enough. There is, of course, a great understatement, but in any case a sign that the minister may still be able to put the prestige aside in this matter when it has become so dramatic for people's lives and health in the areas concerned – for prestige, of course, is not a good goal to govern the country after. I would therefore recommend the Minister of Health and the rest of the government to also drop the prestige and turn around in the matter of building Gaustad and putting Ullevål – at the best for the hospital offer and for all of us who are soaking up it throughout Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1379	We need to ensure good public health where we prevent and work for better mental and physical health in the population. Health policy should give people a good life. Measures such as physical activity and free fruit and green for students are important priorities for the Centre Party. In addition, we want more for outdoor purposes than the government. The Centre Party also proposes a greater commitment to health centres in the municipalities, which contribute to meeting places and promote health. We want to strengthen the community economy so that public health and prevention can take place where people live, throughout the country. One of the biggest challenges we're facing is antibiotic-resistant bacteria. They are a great threat to modern medicine. National efforts are still needed to combat the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, and the Centre Party wants more to prevent them. The fact that we have antibiotics and other medicinal products for treatment is important. Early and good help is a security we the people want, but cannot take for granted. We have to take care of that. Equal opportunities are also important for all those who experience disease or have disabilities to receive the help they need. The health efforts of voluntary organisations are valuable and provide far greater value than the cost of supporting them. The central party further believes that the government is pursuing a policy of centralisation and privatisation of health services, which go beyond ambulances, food supply and several important health services. It weakens the preparedness and security of local communities. The free choice of treatment does not give freedom to everyone. The centre party will strengthen public hospitals and ideal providers and guarantee the health offer near people. Specialist health services cannot be reduced without the local authorities having the necessary facilities and capacity for the caregivers and nurses. The government has proposed a tight hospital budget for 2020. Public hospitals are required to save more money to cope with investment while more money is going to go to private health services. That's why we're going to go against the new Oslo University Hospital loan request, against laying down Ullevål hospitals and against spending tens of billions of dollars on a solution that professionals strongly warn against. Oslo City Council asks that the Gaustad Plans be put on hold until the continued operation of Ullevål is sufficiently determined. The Inland Hospital, which needs new and improved premises, needs to streamline and save enormous sums, despite the fact that they are already very effective at today's goal. This is where you need the trust promise of the Center Party. In the 2020 budget, the Centre will give priority to public health, emergency and food services in hospitals, an uplifting of community care and a strengthening of mental health care. We need good health throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1396	If there is one country in the world that should have made sure that children were not hungry at school, it is Norway. If one had had quiz in the United Nations these days where they would mention one country in Europe that did not have national school food policies, I am absolutely sure no one would have written Norway. In a public health perspective, it means a lot if you're hungry or saturated in school everyday. Food has a socializing effect. It contributes to less anxiety, and it seems socially equalizing. The Labour Party is clear that we want a universal arrangement for all children to have a school meal, not their own arrangements for those who are poor, as our Minister of Public Health thinks is a good idea. I'll take you home to Rogaland and to Hå Municipality. They have school food, simple bread on a long table with two to three different orders. But the most popular is school milk. They call it hotel milk – ice cold milk is bottled in glass. Good eating habits are created early, like physical activity. What makes the government so stagnant after the Storting decision of one hour of physical activity every day? We know enough that good public health through a long life begins with physical activity, good habits for which we can easily accommodate in a school day that is most characterized by sitting still. It has not been quiet from the professional environments around children and the mental health of young people since the government presented its escalation plan for children and the mental health of young people this autumn. The reason for this is that there was no economic escalation. An assessment – 13 pst. of the proposals made by the Government is only an assessment. One would think that one had assessed before one presented a stepping-up plan. In the 2020 budget, there is also no evidence of escalation for the mental health of children and young people. The government has removed its supply to the Storting, and the absence is led by economic escalation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1415	I'm taking a stage shift, from the older to the younger. It is only a few weeks since we stood here and debated two representative proposals relating to the provision of birth and maternity in Norway. Norway is one of the world's best countries to be pregnant and become a mother. Child mortality declined sharply in the last century due to competence, research and, more importantly, access to skilled professionals when we are about to give birth to our children. But we have to defend a good supply of food every day, and now I'm afraid that something serious is about to happen to our birth care in our country. This has been expressed through the involvement of the peasant guerrilla, who has become a popular movement for a good food supply throughout the country. As I said at the outset, the skilled professionals have been critical of the quality of Norwegian maternity care, but now many of the professionals are about to leave their post. Five out of ten midwives at Drammen Hospital are considering quitting. Three out of ten midwives at Stavanger University Hospital are considering quitting. At Ahus, my local hospital, there are six out of ten midwives who are considering quitting the job. These are alarming numbers. What's the reason for this? Well, it's because of an excessive work pressure. This is because there are too few midwives at work, especially at the large maternity wards. This is because the food departments are not well funded, because there is no need for preparedness to be in place – regardless of whether the birth is successful or whether complications arise. The Labour Party, together with the opposition we promoted a few weeks ago, showed in this alternative budget that we are taking the fight for a better offer for the country's midwives. One of the things we are particularly proud of in this year's budget is that we secure all midwives in the municipalities full position through a grant scheme. This is important because the accompanying service may determine whether the woman has a safe birth or not. Today there are 77 municipalities that do not meet the requirements of this service. This is a matter of urgency. What we're proud of every year is that we're keeping our hospital vows in 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals during this period. We will stop the chronic underfunding of our hospitals because it also violates the offer to the country's midwives. When both employees and birthers call out for caution, we must take it seriously. In that case, the government parties on autopilot cannot answer that Norway is the world’s best country to live in. We have to defend a good supply of food every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1430	An important breakthrough for the Christian People's Party on Granavolden was a bet on the non-profit sector. In the proposal for a State budget, the government is following offensively up promises in the Granavolden platform. The platform is the most obvious signal and commitment to the non-profit sector in recent times and follows up the long lines of the Storting decision to invest in the non-profit sector. Ideal actors are civil society’s commitment to well-being and mobilise voluntary work. Furthermore, non-profit actors have an important organisational and professional function as a yardstick and corrective. If society is to derive the greatest benefit from the participation of non-profit actors in welfare, it is necessary to have a policy that allows the potential of the sector to be realised. It is therefore important that the government has now determined that health establishments should not build up competing offers under their own regime where non-profit operators already have an established offer. The government has determined that 10 pst. of the overall healthcare service shall be organised as a non-profit activity. This implies a growth of about 5 pst., a doubling of the overall health and care services. It is of great importance that the government has given regional health companies a clear order to engage in strategic dialogue with the ideal actors, in line with the formulations of the Granavolden platform that non-profit actors should be equivalent. The dialogue needs to be organised in the light of how their task portfolio can be developed, so that it is both sustainable for non-profit actors and contributes to the overall societal performance of the regional health enterprise. It is positive that next year the government expects significant payments from the grant scheme for activities with historical pension costs at state level. This is of major importance in principle since it is public authorities which have initially imposed those obligations on the non-profit operators by means of operating contract requirements, etc. This principle relationship also applies at municipal and county level. It is important to continue to establish a framework for how non-profit actors who have provided services on behalf of municipalities and county councils can also have their historical pension obligations compensated. In the request decision No: 82 for 2018–2019, the Government of Stortinget asks ‘to determine the economic consequences of covering the historical pension costs of NPISHs for the municipal and county sectors with a view to being covered by the municipalities and county municipalities’. The decision has not been followed up so far, but it is positive that the government has announced that they will come to the Stortinget with a matter of this quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1443	First of all, a tribute to the representative of Stensland, who actually said something we knew – that the Workers' Party had the best hospital budget. But it was good to hear it from a government party. One of our major challenges in today's welfare society is the social inequality in dentistry. That's why we in the Workers' Party have a goal of gradually expanding public dentistry, and we want to start with what's most important: screen groups with special diagnosis, weak finances and poor dental health for large dental expenses. We also pay particular attention to young people's dental health. Here, too, the government's cut policy leads to increased social differences. Instead of helping those who really need society, the community, to stand up for them, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party make the situation worse. They create greater social differences in dental health. I just don't understand that this is true. We in the Workers' Party have protested loudly against the cut in the support of dental regulation carried out by the government parties. In our alternative budget, where we have a great commitment to dental health, we propose that this benefit be maintained. But the government parties have no scruples and moves forward with their cut policy. In the Granavolden platform, the government says that they will further develop the dental services and gradually extend the protection systems. These are empty words, because with the tightening-up they are proposing – and which unfortunately the government parties are providing for a majority here today – 150 million disappear. kr to dental health annually with full power from 2024. Finally, I must remind you of the Labour Party's representative proposal on Norwegian dental health, which was dealt with in Stortinget well and well one year ago, and which ended up asking the government to come to Stortinget with a case that ensures that more people can afford the necessary dental treatment. The Christian People's Party was part of that great crowd, and here the Christian People's Party must make sure that something actually happens. This is an important issue for many and is about doing something for minor differences in today’s Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1458	I visited the Church Hospital last week. We met employees and management there. The hospital is completely new, but is still not finished. It will probably go with considerable sums to get the hospital completely completed. The distances in Finnmark are enormous, for example: Between the Kirkenes and Hammerfest hospitals it is approx. 50 miles. It's about as far as Oslo to Trondheim -- it's actually a little bit further. When it's often very bad weather, and roads are closed, airports are closed, you can't carry patients. You have to do the job where they are. Plans have been put in place, but they can't be implemented. Today, the hospital is at level 1 in intensive care. The hospital is staffed for this. When it has been suggested that patients cannot be moved according to a plan, you have to use yourself disproportionately. As a result, many of the employees are now completely destroyed. The employees do a fantastic job, and the Church Hospital has a very good reputation. The employees believe that there should be a crew of approx. 12 more in the intensive care unit. It is important to get adequate treatment at level two. That's about. 80 miles between the Kirkenes and Tromsø, that's the next option to send patients. Even there, it can be difficult to get patients in, especially if they are critically ill. I see I have little time left, but I want the Stortinget to support proposal No. 37, so we get a proper treatment in the Church Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1470	There has been a lot of crisis debate today, and that is what it must be when it comes to as serious matters as the emergency crisis in the north and the air ambulance scandal. It's actually a product of an ideological overconfidence in privatisation and outsourcing as one way to salvation. We also want to use a health debate to talk a little about the positive promises that SV has made visible in their alternative budget. We have had a little earlier in the debate on the need for better basic staffing and more full and permanent positions in care. SV provides funds for this both in the specialist health service and in the primary health service. Recently, we have seen new notices of violence and abuse against residents and employees in the care of the elderly, and there is an urgent need for a plan to meet this. I refer to the representative proposal from Karin Andersen and myself last week, which also Karin Andersen had in mind in an article earlier today. There is, of course, a need for more and different measures, but this is also a question of the need for adequate and qualified staffing, and SV is not afraid to designate measures for such purposes when needed. The debate has been a little toothless. It has been sharp, but teeth are not many who have talked about, a few exceptions have been. We think we've talked long enough about the teeth as part of the body – without expanding a dental health that takes this slogan seriously. This is still one of the health areas where social inequality is most pronounced, and a reform is overtime. Our goal is that no one should pay more than NOK 2,500 in dental expenses per year. This will cost, but SV will take the first step in its proposal for next year’s budget through a solid expansion of the public dental service for young people and for the elderly. We think that's the way to go. It shall be free for young people up to the age of 20 and less expensive than currently up to 30 years. And the older people over 75 years have to get back free dental check-ups. Of course, we don't want to take support for dental regulation from children who need it. All of this is covered by the SV's draft budget, which we would like to see adopted. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 31 of case No. 1 as SV is left alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1481	The representative Torleif Hamre then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1486	Russ and mental health is a priority area for government, and with the 2020 budget proposal, one meets the economic objectives of the 2.4 billion escalating plan. kr more for the 2016 to 2020 rush field. Its right objective is to provide people with serious mental health problems, including those with drug problems, with quality, good and coherent treatment. Interactions across services are essential to improve cooperation between users. We see that it's demanding, and we see that it slips. It shall not happen. The Russfield is a priority through the escalation plan, with emphasis on early intervention, better treatment and prevention. More people should be helped with their problems, and assistance should be provided earlier and adapted to the needs of the individual. User involvement is central both to the system and to the individual level. Psychiatric health is not necessarily about being free from symptoms. Psychiatric health is also the mastery of living with the challenges, of having a good time, and of finding joy in everyday life. In this way, work on drugs and mental health is being taken into account in the area of responsibility for several sectors. More homeless people now have a place of their own to live, and many of these are just addicts. New calculations from the Husbank show that the combined effort towards homeless people and people with drug dependence for 2016–2019 is actually significantly higher than previously estimated. Collecting the appropriation for housing for people with drug dependence amounts to between 500 and 600 million. kr. This has been done, among other things. through the provision of rental housing and investment grants to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. Without a dwelling, the road to the outreach can be frighteningly short. Only when human beings meet their basic needs, such as taking care of their heads and money for food, will they be able to accept the necessary help. Only then can they use their own resources to move on in life. For this reason, the efforts made by the government in recent years have been correct, and it is important that we adopt today a health budget to help achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1501	I will not owe the Minister of Health or other speakers from the Government Party any bad hearing, bad vision or poor reading understanding. On the other hand, the Health Minister and the Government Party seem to be building their policies on talking most to well-paid directors and directors. In addition, strong system-tray and ideological skyscrapers block important knowledge. Life has at least taught the sign that a very important source of information is the ones who do the job in the first line service. By talking to them, they get one of the most undesired truths about how things are in practice. Numbers and percentages can be presented and used in so many ways. We all know that. My advice is that one should talk more with locals, nurses, ambulance workers, pilots, and join cooperatives such as police and fire and rescue, to find out how the preparedness is in practice, how the everyday life is in emergency situations where there are minutes to be able to save lives. People in Finnmark, and in North Norway, are unfortunately not alone in feeling that security is in play, even though it is just now most dramatic there. When hundreds of people in Larvik call about their ambulance, it is among other things. because they feel tricked by the government party in the so-called near-police reform. When part-time firemen threaten to stop, it is because they have experienced in practice that the police are coming later than before, if they are coming at all. These part-time fires won't stand alone with all the responsibility because the nation's people didn't come forward when something happens. When the county doctor in the West warns against tragic events before psychiatry because of lack of drugs, this is rejected by the Minister of Health. It's safe. But it would have been even more reassuring if the Minister of Health talked to those in the police and health services who experience everyday life more demandingly compounding than he looks on the Council of State paper at his office. A short time ago, a person in Sogn and Fjordane was run at night 25 miles to be seen in the Bergen arrest. The car took six hours, three different police patrols, three medical wards and an ambulance were involved. The Chief of Police in Sogn and Fjordane say it's a good example of the challenges we're facing, and I can add: after the close police reform. All of this is not the Minister of Health's responsibility. But it's now once and for all that everything is related to everything, and it's the government's responsibility to make sure that their people come and be able to do the job they're going to do when urgent events happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1516	For the Progress Party, strengthening the supply of mental health has been very important. It has been one of the major initiatives for health policy with just the Progress Party in government. The work has been followed up in a number of ways, including: through increased appropriations for the mental health work of municipalities. School health services are strengthened by over 1.3 billion. kr from 2013 to 2019, and we have arranged for more psychologists in the municipalities. It is necessary to get in early in order to help raise individuals so that they can get quick help. Preventive and early action is very important for the Progress Party. To succeed in the work on mental health, we are totally dependent on individuals being seen and listened to. Therefore, increased appropriations within this field are absolutely necessary. Good mental health is important for good quality of life, to master everyday life, school and work. The threshold for assistance shall be low and the assistance must be available in the community environment. However, there is one thing I would like to draw from the pulpit today: the cooperation between health care and child protection. It's very important. Children and young people under the care of child protection can suffer both physical and mental health problems. Some of those who have problems are also associated with drugs. Ensuring good health services for children in child protection is a high priority in the Progress Party. Children and young people with child protection measures have exactly the same health care rights as other children. Nevertheless, we know that cooperation between child protection and health is still not good enough, unfortunately. Children and young people in the field of child protection do not have their health care needs identified — not always sufficient, at least. If you don't identify the need for help, you don't get the necessary and proper treatment, and it's been very important for the Progress Party and this government to do something about. Last week, state council opened the Roppstad Lunde treatment centre. It illustrates very well what the government wants to do with this: we want to strengthen committed cooperation and the professional understanding between health and child protection employees. Why? Yes, because we want to, for example. services providing children and young people with the help they need where they are and seeing the overall needs of children and young people for care and health care. This is just a little bit of what's going on, and I'm looking forward to the continuation of this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1529	Nordlys reports eight adverse events in Health Nord due to flight deficiencies. The air ambulance operator has had to put five of the eleven aircraft on the ground, and this is at the top of the problems that Babcock has already had. The papers are taped with contributions from municipal doctors, and we've had a population reaction for years now to keep the ambulance service, to keep the plane ambulance. Trust in health care is declining in the north. Security for residents living in non-hospital areas depends on the functioning of the ambulance service. Often counts minutes. I myself have experience in the use of fly ambulances in the acute illness of the family. Fortunately, it went well – the ambulance plane got the patient to the university hospital in 45 minutes. People in the north are pissed and scared – afraid of getting sick. Now winter is at hand, with closed roads, and the need for planes is most present. Enough is enough. The people require action, and that must happen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1538	The President reminds the representative that bans are not parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1543	It's good to have Finnmarks on the intercom here. I'm not going to talk about the Church Hospital, even if it's tempting. I'll talk about the plans for the hospital in Oslo. In this budget, the government asks the Stortinget to approve a loan application for new Oslo University Hospitals on Aker and Gaustad. We're talking about an investment of between 40 and 60 billion. kr. I think it's worth remembering how much money it actually is, because even if it's budget time, we don't have to be speed blind to billions. This is Norway’s largest hospital expansion ever, and there is considerable uncertainty about the costs. The final investment cost estimate has so far increased significantly in a short period of time. A prerequisite for the project is a high degree of efficiency prior to development and a high level of ex post performance achievement. Experience from other, similar hospital functions, such as the Hospital Østfold, shows that this is not realistic. Actually, there should have been great joy for the plans. We need to invest so much money for better hospitals in the Oslo region, because everyone agrees that there is a need for large investments and increased capacity at hospitals here in Oslo. Nevertheless, the protests against the plans that are now on the table are great, and it must make the impression when employees and the trade union community come up with so many and strong objections. It is very critical that the government asks us at Stortinget to take responsibility for approving a loan application for a project that is so large that it will bind resources and determine how the hospital offer for future generations will work both in Oslo and in the region, without getting a concrete and comprehensive project on the table. If it turns out that the investment budget is too low, or the efficiency requirements are too high, which is not impossible at all, we risk this expansion going beyond the budgets for operations and necessary investments in other parts of Health South-East. It is we who are responsible for the seventh and last, not the directors and the board of Health South-East, who are asking us to approve this application, and as Minister of Health Bent Höie pushes ahead. Of course, the future hospital structure and future financing of hospitals are a political responsibility, and it is a responsibility that government council Höie and government parties do not take. SV opposes the approval of the loan application in this budget. I believe that we need to get a concrete case with the entire project to Stortinget, a project that will meet the objectives of health, legal, on-site and economically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1554	The representative Torleif Hamre had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1559	One last visit to the municipal economy: we do not believe that government-run care for the elderly in the municipalities is the way to go, although the state obviously has to finance its own reforms and also wants to earmark funds for specific areas of activity. But the experiment with state-run care for the elderly in the municipalities has brought out something very interesting. It turns out that the funds don't go there either. In other words, when the State has to provide municipal care for the elderly, it sees that it is more expensive than intended. And then what happens? Well, we're getting a proposition with changes in the state budget for the current year that gives us 41,5 million. kr to the experimental municipalities. As: ‘The expected additional consumption is assumed, inter alia, to be related to the increased need for services in some of the experimental municipalities.’ I am sure that the need is real, and that the money is needed, but is there reason to believe that it is different in municipalities that have not funded state care and that do not receive post-payments that turn out to be larger? This could have been a teaching piece in municipal economy for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1566	Today we were told through the media that on Sunday a concern message was sent from the Norwegian Flyerverband to the Air Safety Authority. They said the other planes that Babcock operates should also be put down. The pilots have for a long time felt an insecurity because of the lack of improvement in service, and federal leader Yngve Carlsen says that they have experienced crisis conditions ever since the takeover on 1 July. So these are the pilots who talk: they have our doubts about the situation. They think it has our lack of security in the new planes. We already know that health professionals, both from the Nurses' Association and from the Medical Association, have sent concerns to the County of Troms and Finnmark that the medical-professional dimensions are not on their care. We hear stories from solids that tell us about children who don't get emergency help when they need it, that it's too late. There have been a large number of serious deviations because help is too late. If the plane has to be grounded, they don't have enough pilots, and there's a big problem with technicians, then the question starts to arise about this agreement with Babcock, which means anything at all. When should the government consider whether that contract is worth anything – when one is unable to deliver any of the service contents? It's very insecure. It has been a weakening of emergency preparedness for large parts of the country. When will the government consider making the fatal decision that one took in 2016, when a concern message was received, when one ran it through in the Storting, and after largely what can creep and walk by professionals in the field, warn against doing so? So here one runs on ideological skyscrapers and runs through a solution, and still thinks it's going to be cheaper and better, as we see it, it's going to be drier and more expensive for every day that goes. I noticed in the last article in the little line exchange that the council had, where he pointed out that those who wanted to have a deal on the Storting, yes, they were the ones who were at risk of working with the patients. It represents the greatest arrogance I have ever experienced from a Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1578	It is an aspect of the world’s and Norway’s health situation that is much discussed in international trade unions, but which has been discussed in this Chamber to a small extent, and there is a relationship between climate change and health. There is now a major climate summit in Madrid. In this context, the World Health Organisation has presented a new report in a series of actions on their part to draw attention to this. One of their proposals is to develop targeted national plans to meet climate-related health challenges in the coming years. We have talked about planet health for a long time, but what is increasingly seen as evidence is a link between climate change and human health – that there is a direct link. You can see, for example: infectious diseases such as zikaviruses, dengue fever and malaria have been observed as far north as France, and they are moving northwards towards us. Extreme weather events, such as floods, droughts, hot seasons and forest fires, will both have direct health effects by being hit by them and can create indirect effects, such as: when floods lead to flooding of fresh water sources so that water becomes useless to humans, etc. So you can see that diseases spread to people who are not used to them and who do not have immunity, resistance breaks down, and extreme weather events weaken the response systems, health services and emergency services, the ability to react. This is already an acute phenomenon in many countries. Doctors without borders are among those who have pointed out that this is something they experience where they operate, but we also hear from e.g. The Medical Association, in a report from The Lancet and from the World Health Organization, that these are things that will also concern us. It would be interesting to hear whether the government has thought about this, and what you mean to do about it – if you like. wish to develop their own national health measures to meet the new challenges. In the worst case scenario, you can see that a generally positive trend in global health can be reversed because of climate change, and I think it's better to start taking it before it hit us than when the crisis is a fact and it's too late to think about the response.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1593	The waiting time for drug treatment has almost halved since the Progress Party came into government. By introducing free treatment options, including in the area of drug treatment, both reduced waiting time and increased freedom of choice for the President have been provided, no regrets – for the patient. Individual drug addicts should receive good help and proper treatment. Those who want help in a life of restlessness should also receive a strengthened support and follow-up to do just that. Therefore, the government continues to strengthen care, in particular rehabilitation and aftercare, and to strengthen the fight against overdose deaths. In 2014, the government reintroduced earmarked funds for municipal drug work to ensure that municipalities continue to give priority to this work – together with a scheme of around 480 million. kr in 2019. In addition, a five-year national strategy on overdoses has been presented. I remember very well a project we had in Bergen, with naloxone nose spray. In 2019, it is deployed in 35 municipalities. Naloxone nasal spray is now also placed in e.g. prisons, police cars and weighting services. There is no doubt that this saves life. In its new policy platform, the government has focused on multiple drug treatment, both through the continuation of the escalation plan for the drug field, the extension and strengthening of LAR treatment and the launch of a new drug reform. For me, it is nevertheless important from the pulpit today to stress the objective that those who want to live a life of rest should also be given greater support and follow-up to it. A few years ago, I brought Finance Minister Siv Jensen to a unique project in Bergen – what we call the heroin vaccine, which is a long-acting near-traffic injection that can be given to patients who are struggling with opiate dependence. The main findings of treatment are that long-acting naltrexone significantly reduces the use of other drugs. It's not addictive, and it doesn't give abstinence. Also, Naltraxone is not meant to be given as a lifelong treatment, as other LAR medicine is, but you can have a clear head to get out of the trail you're in. I've met a lot of people who are in this project. I've read about them, last week in Bergen's Official Journal. I really hope that this is something that can enter the LAR when the national guidelines are revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1612	The President can delight the representative that he has done well without treatment so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1617	In this budget, we ensure that Oslo can finally start building new hospitals in Aker and the Rikshospitalet. This is urgent if we are to ensure Oslo’s citizens a good health service in the future, because as it is today, the city has some of Norway’s worst hospital buildings. It's time we started building new ones. Oslo needs new hospitals. The only thing that's certain is that new rounds will guarantee even more delays, and it will affect patients. But it's not just Oslo's inhabitants this will go beyond. We also need a new hospital in Aker because we have a very large population growth in Akershus. It is therefore alarming that the Centre Party will remove the entire loan allocation from its alternative budget. Regardless of the discussion about location on Gaustad or Ullevål, the cut of the Center Party means that there will be no new hospital at Aker. That the Center Party is cutting Oslo is nothing new, but cutting Aker hospitals will go out on everyone who has Ahus in Lørenskog as their local hospital, and that means that the cut also goes out on everyone who lives in Rome and in Follo. Ahus was built to serve 340,000 inhabitants. Today more than 530,000 inhabitants are soaking up to Ahus, and in 2035 it is expected that Ahus will be a local hospital for 690,000 inhabitants. That the Center Party is playing this game is completely incomprehensible. The project for new hospitals in Oslo means that the capacity of Aarhus is to be built up step by step. In this way, in fact, Aarhus can gradually assume population responsibility for the Oslo people who today are soaking up to Ahus, from Ahus. Akershus is growing, and in order to care for the population and enough capacity in Akershus we simply need a new Aker hospital in Oslo. It is the patients and also the hospital staff who pay the price and bear the costs, because the hospital is as crowded as it is. The fact that the Center Party knowingly and willfully cuts a new large emergency hospital on Aker from its budget therefore has considerable consequences for people other than Oslo. Therefore, in order to ensure good health care in the years to come for the whole of the East, it is good to decide to build new hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1628	Last speaker, Turid Kristensen, used big words against the Center Party. I would urge the representative to listen to Michael Tetzschner's comments to get more serious about the matter. State Council Höie countered the active transfer of business by professionals, both pilots and technicians as well as aircraft and technical equipment, in the air ambulance service tender. Babcock did not have an operational organisation at the time of the signing of the agreement, but the Council of State nevertheless thought that the quality would be good enough. It's strong, when Babcock didn't have experience and could show what they could deliver of quality. Professionals who know the aviation ambulance service told us that the risk of the emergency response under the contract requirements would fail was very high, because there are a number of gears to interact with each other in aviation readiness. If one gear doesn't work, the service doesn't work. This is demanding. But the Council of State only swept aside such knowledge. Yes, the Council of State said no later than 10 September to the VG: ‘The only contribution of the Central Party in this case has been to create completely unnecessary concerns in the population, especially in North Norway.’ One should not take into account professionals, yes, much less the Center Party, who had close contact with people. Now there are four Babcock planes on the ground. Norsk Flyerförbund sent yesterday a statement of concern to the Air Safety Authority asking them to assess whether all Babcock’s ten new propeller aeroplanes need to be put on the ground. The pilots report problems with several of the systems of the planes, but the failure with engines that cheat is the most serious, as I described in the line exchange. The errors have occurred independently of each other and therefore the Air Operator’s Association believes that the Air Operator’s Authority must consider whether this applies to all aeroplanes, not only to the five where the fault has already occurred, for neither the aircraft manufacturer nor the Babcock knows the cause of the error. But the interesting thing is that the Council of State told me in a row that he had been familiar with the problem since August. I ask the Council of State to come up and explain to whom he told it, and document how it has happened. It's vitally important information that we have to get. I would also like to say that the proposal of the Central Party No. 34–36 discusses what needs to be done in the critical situation we face. It is the Council of State that has led us to this after a lengthy debate where the risk has been pointed out, but how risk has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1652	There are concerns about the emergency situation in North Norway, but it is not that the air ambulance service is exposed to competition, which is the problem. It is precisely an advantage to have a private operator operating the air ambulance service because the operator can be held responsible for the contract concluded. Some parties in this room seem to believe that everything that is public is good. Let me just remind you of Trondheim municipality's care for the elderly, which according to the Workers' Party was supposed to be an exhibition window for a municipality where it would shine with the care of the elderly. In 2011, there were 26 000 breaches of the Working Environment Act. I would like to see that Red and SV had used the same arguments against Trondheim municipality at the time and demanded that the elderly care in Trondheim municipality be privatised. The same can be seen in the municipality of Oslo, with 53 000 employees who have a breach of the Environmental Protection Act. Had Nav been a private company, I am absolutely sure that the opposition would have been quite clear that it had to be municipalized. There's no resemblance between a service being public and that it's good. What the Progress Party is concerned about is that the air ambulance is now getting better preparedness in North Norway. The only thing that matters is to get the standby in place. So there's no merit for us in this contract. Only the safety and safety of patients is most important. The progress batch is therefore committed to the delivery of the air ambulance standby according to the quality requirements to which the operator is obliged by the contract. We want to use the five ambulances that belong to a former operator, which are available in North Norway now, and which can be put into service. The most important thing is that the Minister of Health is using resources to remedy the situation, to use defence aircraft, but also from other actors. Finally, I would like to point out that it is a great advantage for us that this actor is private, so that once the emergency situation is in a normal situation, you can follow the breach of the contract and that it has consequences for the operator.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1663	I understand that people in the north are angry and afraid. The air ambulance service for our citizens is not at an acceptable level. Various reasons have created a worse offer than we want and expect. So this weekend, five planes were standing on the ground, and I see that several politicians are trying to maximize the political points of a technical error. I have been a professional aircraft for 22 years and have been flying a lot all over the country, and I have called for a more sobering debate. The fact that there is a political disagreement about the air ambulance to be operated by civil airlines or not is okay, but taking a technical error to income for a political view is going to be completely wrong in my view. It was particularly pathetic to hear the representative Lundteg railing that the engines are cheating. The engines cheat at low speed – all those who know something about engines know that they cheat at low speed, said Lundtegen. No, because the planes don't have piston engines. They have turbine engines, and they don't cheat at all. If I understood the press conference yesterday correctly, there is an error in the gearbox, which is between the engine and the propeller. That only four planes are on the ground, and not all of them, is because only the four planes are wrong. If this error is a risk to all aeroplanes, the aircraft manufacturer will require all airlines operating this type worldwide to park the aeroplanes on the ground. In Norway, the Air Safety Authority is responsible for ensuring that it is technically maintained, and they keep up with it, regardless of whether or not the Norwegian Flyer Association is taking the initiative. Four of the five errors Babcock had this weekend, according to the press conference, due to a technical fault the operator is probably completely innocent of – a technical error that would probably have occurred regardless of whether air transport had won the bid or whether the State had taken over the service. The fact that Babcock is part of a large international group provides an opportunity that neither air transport nor a state-run air ambulance would have had: Babcock is moving aircraft from Sweden to Norway to replace the aeroplanes on the ground. This flexibility did not have air transport when operating the air ambulance, nor would this flexibility have had a state air ambulance operation. To require Babcock or others to start flying the old aircraft of Air Transport is not a quick fix. It can be a medium-term solution, but no short-term solution. Babcock must provide evidence of procedures and technical maintenance. This is time- and resource-consuming and will take resources away from what they are doing now – getting the planes back into the air in a safe and good way. In addition, the documentation shall be approved by the Air Safety Authority before the use of the old aeroplanes takes a long time. Such conditions are today, return to air transport or transfer to a state carrier will not solve any problems. On the contrary, it will create new problems and extend the period of problems. If the state takes over, this will be a process that takes a very long time, maybe as much as two to three years. First, the State must recruit and employ personnel who can write documentation and lay the groundwork for establishing an airline. Finally, I would like to stress that today's offer is not at an acceptable level for our citizens, and I really hope that today's operator will be able to solve the problems as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1682	I would like to come back to something that is starting to interest me more and more as time goes on, namely what I have to look forward to when I get older and even more fragile than I already am. I guess I'm the one who's the closest to being able to get to a nursing home, not as a relative – as I've been – but as a resident. Then there's one thing I think is scary with the left-hand thinking: that when I get to a nursing home because I'm physically poor, but relatively up at the top – if I get dissatisfied, I've lost every right to opt out of the nursing home I'm in, to get to another one that I think is better. Throughout a long life, I and everyone in this congregation have chosen. If we're dissatisfied with REMA, we go to Kiwi. If we're dissatisfied there, we go to MENY. We choose from suppliers who do not have good offers, who are not service-set, or with whom we are not satisfied – in all areas. But when we get older, maybe get to a nursing home and are physically fragile, we lose the right to choose freely. We want to remove the possibility, says the Workers' Party, that those like me can say that if things don't go better here now and I get a shower at least four times a week and not just one, I move to the competitor 1 km away, as I can do here in Oslo, and then the 800,000 kroner that this nursing home gets from the Municipality of Oslo will go to the competitor. Maybe we could also welcome more people who established hospitals? As I see it, the hotel industry in particular could run with a nursing home. They've got everything, except for medical help. They can do anything, except for medical assistance, and they are service-set. As far as the hotel industry is concerned, we know that there are usually free rooms. President, now I'm a little confused, because the clock doesn't show how much time I have left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1693	You have 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1698	I can't see that, so I'm asking for enough time to finish. I would like to see, in both the VG and the Evening Post, an ad: Free space at the Rican Hospital, we ask relatives who will soon need this for their elderly, to come and visit us. Why in the world can't we have over-capacity in hospital places, so that the health home operators fight about us as customers, instead of now in Workers' Party-led Oslo, where we have to stand by the hand and thank you for what is right for the leading politicians in the city to offer us?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1708	I'm sorry, the big timer stopped when Carl I. Hagen took the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1713	I stood and wondered for a moment if the time had stood still! For another theme: Freedom is among the core values of social liberalism. We have a basic belief that a free human being who is good chooses to be a positive force in society. So we know that people's lives are largely shaped in childhood and youth. Infringing children and young people is a recipe for creating unfree people. People in the maturation phase must have access to intelligent reflection in life’s choices, not coercion, not uninhibited discipline, but also not so well-known that good role models disappear from sight and are replaced by bad ones. In the escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health, I note in particular a statistics showing that mental health disorders for this age group in 2017 were the main challenge for over 60 pst. by Norwegian municipalities with regard to public health and prevention. Six years earlier, the proportion was below 50 pst. On this basis, I understand that the plan received a mixed reception when it was presented, to put it mildly, from the hearing bodies that reported to the Stortinget earlier this autumn. Nevertheless, the plan cannot be seen in isolation from what has been done in recent years. The government is working on three major cross-sectoral reforms: the equivalised reform, inclusionism and child reform. The last one aims to give all children equal opportunities. The action plan for the drug field was met and over-financed this year, and the plan of action against violence and abuse has been constantly strengthened in the budgets. A survey report was recently submitted: Close — early and inclusive community in kindergarten, school and SFO, Report. Paragraph 6 for 2019-2020. These are policy areas that need to be seen in the context and move in the same direction. We're going to have a team around children and families, we're going to have good health centres, kindergartens, schools, SFOs and a leisure time that builds up the individual human being. That's good health policy. Many municipalities are now building a really good first-line service for children and young people’s mental health. It shows that we are on the right track with the efforts of this government, and that the knowledge of the important first years has come to an end. It helps to talk about early interventions and prevention, that children and young people have a mental health to be protected well about, and that violence, abuse and other care failures create unworthy life situations and must be avoided at all costs. It is this increased awareness that has prepared the basis for the escalation plan for children and young people's mental health, and which in many ways is a pamphlet for the great and important work we have ahead of us, which must last for many years. I would like to say to the representative of Hagebakken, who intended to assign a representative from one of the government parties that the Workers' Party has the best hospital offer. No, the representative didn't say that. He said they had the most expensive. It's pretty close to the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1728	It's starting to get far in the health debate. In fact, for us in the Workers' Party, it is still the most important thing that we have a solidarity healthcare service. Good health and quality of life should be equally accessible no matter who you are or where you come from. There are fewer and fewer people who think that the policy of government in this area is good. The system of determining quacks, manning and working conditions in the service is exacerbated, and today VG reveals major deficiencies in older multi-sickness, which is released prematurely from the hospital and left to itself. Then we have the crisis in the air ambulance. It's serious, and it's not just the five planes that are now on the ground. The other aeroplanes in operation also have strong limitations. They can, for example, do not land on the short-haul network when there is more than 15 knots of side wind, which is often in the north. I must say that when I heard the representative Bruun-Gundersen defending the operator, I almost didn't think my own ears. She said that now it was an advantage that we had a private operator who could be held responsible for the service. Choose that the toolbox of this operator is empty. They don't have planes to put in. Standby's weakened. The pilots’ Association today asks the authorities to consider placing all aeroplanes on the ground until the fault has been found. This is a profession that doesn't have the habit of frightening opinion. It must be considered a good professional advice, which I assume the Council of State and the appropriate authorities are listening to. Then I will take an explanation of vote from the Labour Party on the solutions that have come in. We are going to support the proposals No. 31, 33, 36 and 37. We will subsidiaryly support the proposals No. 32 and 34 as they look a little bit like our proposal No. 38, if it does not get a majority – if it is now adopted, we should be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1739	I would like to take the opportunity to say something more about the situation related to the air ambulance service. As I said in my main post, there is a serious situation when one on the weekend experienced that five of the eleven ambulance planes were taken out of standby due to technical challenges. It's right now, as I said, reduced to four planes, but it's just as very serious, and I understand that people are becoming alarmed as the situation is now. There's a lot of work to do to find out why the technical challenges of the four planes are and to get this fixed, and that's also what the supplier's main priority is now. At the same time, as the responsible authorities, we need to assess what additional measures are needed to compensate for this. The supplier has deployed two Swedish aircraft today, so that a total of nine aircraft are deployed in the air ambulance service. This is the same number of aeroplanes as normal standby, but, as one is aware, some of these aeroplanes have weather limitations due to the technical uncertainties that have arisen around the new service aeroplanes. This does not apply to the leased aeroplanes, but here it is that one of these cannot take short-haul operations and thus relieve the other aeroplanes of this. Additional resources have also been put in place to remedy the situation. As one knows, Health Nord chose to ask for the Defense Helicopter – which the government followed up earlier – stationed in Kirkenes. One has also deployed additional crews at the Air Traffic Coordination Centre and additional crews related to the helicopter service, and the car ambulance service also assesses an ongoing reinforcement. In addition, there are additional crews associated with the air ambulance service helicopter in Tromsø, so that this could be more operational than usual, e.g. in case of increased use. This means that the emergency situation is reduced and not optimal, but Health Nord is working with all the possibilities to achieve it to the best of its ability, with all those involved, and that means that a continuous assessment of the need for further action is also ongoing. Health Nord has just concluded a press conference on the situation in which they have informed both of the measures they have taken, of the situation and assessments they are making. Of course, I am going to follow the situation carefully and will come back, as I have said, and give the Storting a thorough briefing at an appropriate time, but I believe it is not right today to give priority to the resources to make briefings. We will come back to that at a time when we can give the Storting a good answer to the questions that Stortinget has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1752	There's a crisis in the Norwegian air ambulance service. This crisis was a warning. It was obvious that Babcock would not be able to deliver. What we warn against has happened. Babcock took over operation on 1 July, and after that, the emergency plan has replaced the emergency plan. During the weekend, five aircraft were on the ground, and today the Führer Association asks the authorities to consider putting all the ambulance flights on the ground. Health North is in a state of crisis. For two years, Minister of Health Höie and the government have devalued the situation; for two years, the government and the Minister of Health have not admitted that the company or themselves have done anything wrong, not regret it, but on the contrary, the claim of preparedness is better than before. What the Minister for Health has done well for today are no new admissions, no new measures. Everything should continue as before, they should work as best they can – i.e. no guarantees for a service that is reliable, which has stability, that gives security to the population. The centre party asked for an appointment this summer. The council then replied that one would find out about the standby in the air ambulance service when the Stortinget met in October. I have requested that payment and have received a reply that she came to the state budget. So now the Council of State has to give a briefing. This is not holding. We have more questions than answers after the debate today. Should the government continue to subsidize Babcock, a non-contracting company that needs help every day from the public? Did the Minister of Health know that there was a technical failure already in August? I actually think that's very serious. It's not just the error we've been talking about today, which has happened, as the representative Larsen pointed out. It has been a mistake on faults and a lot of technical failures since the change in operator in July, including what no one has talked about here, as we knew: that there has been a total failure in recruiting staff. We also know that will be a big problem far into next year. We need a proper statement from the Minister of Health. What does this cost society? Who's gonna pay for it? What have been the consequences for patients and for healthcare? Can the Council of State promise that he will come back with a complete distribution for Stortinget — a complete review of the entire supply process and the emergency situation in the air ambulance service? I want an answer to that before this debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1767	There is no doubt that preparedness in the north is seriously weakened, not only by what is happening now, but also by the fact that the government has greatly reduced the helicopter volume on Bardufoss – against the warnings. And the emergency response being deployed does not meet the need. The company that has obtained the contract does not deliver on the contract. There's a need to see if the government can now put ideology aside, and look at how we're going to build up patient transportation in such a way that it doesn't have to be continued with constant offers, which makes so many things go into play. It's not that the public always does everything right, but then it's possible to control it, because it doesn't help patients if you put someone in charge afterwards; it's going to work every day. I would like to say the same about hospitals and the appropriations we are invited to adopt here. When it is not a complete, concrete proposal that is on the table, it is irresponsible. Some of us live in other parts of Health-South-East, and we also need hospitals. Now it's completely blue how these expansions can be secured in the future. So here, both the patients in the Oslo area need a safer offer, and the patients in the rest of the country. There are many things that should be strengthened in the municipal sector. SV has proposed 300 million. Dr. to a low-threshold offer in psychiatry and that you might have it after the model developed in the Stange municipality, Stangehelpa, with a decent low-threshold offer where people get help. We have also invested more money both for the drugs field and for several employees in the care. I have not seen any particular involvement from the Minister of the Elderly. If we had done this, we would have had a lot more resources to release into the care of the elderly, as needed. Finally, if I had a week's time to get hit by a car, I am not entitled to user-controlled personal assistance. I think that's a shame. That scheme needs to be extended, it suggests SV, and we also propose to contribute money to the municipalities, so that they have the opportunity to use this good resource both for the younger and for the older. It is rather sad to hear that the government is not interested in it. On the contrary, the representative Hagen goes up to the pulpit and clearly believes that we should finance many hospitals that are to be empty around – so that people can choose. Then I would like to invite Hagen to Engerdal to see how it is likely to put this offer in place, both economically and practically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1780	As everyone knows, health is crucial to people's quality of life. For the Workers' Party, equivalent offers across the country are crucial if we are to be able to meet this. We fully understand what's going on in the North, but we also know, we who come from the West, that we have to fight for years to get our rightful share. It is important in the work in progress in the future – we have got a lot of input into the challenges here in Oslo – to ensure that, in the future, there will also be equivalent funding regardless of which healthcare company is involved, and to compensate for long distances. When I was on the Health Committee, I learned that 80 pst. health services are provided in municipalities. Then it is gratifying that ALIS and municipal teeth, as I would like to highlight, in the municipality of Masfjorden, one of the smallest municipalities in Hordaland, made a proposal on how to practically renew the training within the fixed medical system, which has really proved to be a success both in the districts and not least in the cities, which now also lack the qualifications. One of the areas where I have worked most is mental health, and especially for children and young people. We have an increased incidence. I visited the BUP in Health Bergen, and they have done an amazing job identifying the twelve treatment methods that are most evidence-based. I hope you can transfer this to other parts of the country, because it is also important here that we have equivalent offers around the country. They have also started new research into intensive treatment of anxiety and also on the use of VR glasses in psychosis treatment. Many have challenged me: Does it benefit in psychiatry? Yes, it is beneficial, both treatment and the fact that clinical research needs to be facilitated more precisely in order to develop new methods aimed at a patient group with major challenges. One thing that surprised me is that most of the treatment in child psychiatry is in public. Nevertheless, some have opted for private specialist schemes in this area. They've lost two of their best children's psychiatrists, who have gone over to be private specialists. The same thing happens in psychology. It is absolutely vital that we provide equivalent offers, that we ensure that we have enough public services at least, so that all children and young people receive equivalent offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1793	It was the reading arrangements from the representative Kjerkol about care for the elderly that got me to speak in the health debate today. There she used my municipality of residence as an example, and she wrote: ‘It was so little successful that Ap, together with the Right, now withdraws the care services in Austevoll to ensure the safety and high quality of the services.’ Let me just say that the reason why a re-communalized person in my municipality of residence, is not that it has given us a small, successful offer, that is because of ideology on the part of the Labour Party. Had it been a little successful, why would the councillor in the municipality have suggested a new round of competition? Well, because he sees that's what creates the best quality. The experience after six years that we have is that it has been stable and careful for these six years. There have been more activities in the hospital – more activists than when the municipality ran the services. There is a choice in the offer: one can choose which one to have for dinner, and one can choose which one to offer, in a completely different way from before. The beavers are more satisfied, showing surveys. The absence of sickness has been dramatically reduced by a private operator who takes care of them in another way. In addition, the municipality has had financial control, which means that one can operate the municipality without a property tax. I think the Labour Party is bold, which uses this as an example of a lack of success, at least when we look at what will now be offered to the elderly in this municipality. The representative, Hagen, spoke of wanting enough sick homes so that he could choose. Then at least one cannot travel to this municipality, which the Labour Party now rules, because their grip is to coerce recommunalize and cut the number of sick home places by eight. There will be more elderly people in need of a sick home place than there are sick homes available on 1 June. At least then the model that the representative Hagen and I want us to do is not working, that there should be enough sick homes, which means that those who need them can choose. Not only does a cut in hospital places reduce the number dramatically, but it also reduces the number of people added dramatically. It'll be nine years less. Then a good question can be asked by the Labour Party, which has done this both locally and now uses it nationally as an example: how does it become more secure and better quality? How are the eight people who today have a sick home place, but who the municipality does not have a place until 1 June, to feel security? And how should people experience a better quality that there will be nine annuals less to care for the elderly in the future than it is today? I thought the Labour Party should stop thinking about ideology and start thinking about the elderly, who need a warm and good care for the elderly. Then one should not destroy what works in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1811	Preparedness is the basic task of the State. The central task of the state is to ensure your and my security – the security of the inhabitants. The air ambulance is a public responsibility, such as police, fire and ambulance. What's a little paradoxical when you start looking at the numbers of the different emergency seats, is that it's the municipal, close emergency seat of the fire department that takes more and more of the emergency missions. If you look at an average from 2016 to today, in 2016 the fire service took less than 50 pst. Of the assignments – they were first at the site of the damage – but today they are not until almost 55 p.m. of the missions. Many communities around Norway feel that the police are coming later, and that the ambulance is coming later, but that it is the local, close – what the government has often ridiculed little, little, little robust – that does the job that the government should do, whether it is the police or the ambulance. Today, we have discussed the ambulance – and the air ambulance – which is a hundred percent public responsibility, even though it is a private actor who is set to do the job. Two years ago, the Stortinget warned about what is now happening. Marit Arnstad, the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, took it up. She challenged the Council of State Bent Höie and asked: Do you have control, is it safe, are they well thought through, the processes that are now happening, or are they not? Unfortunately, it turned out that Bent Höie was wrong, and the Central Party parliamentary leader was right. Nothing would have been better than if it had been as safe and well as Bent Höie had assured Stortinget at a later time. Last week of the election campaign in the fall, Bent Höie chose to go out and say that the Center Party was running Scare Propaganda. There is no crisis in the air ambulance in Norway, everything is on the lookout – according to Bent Höie then. But when we see today's headlines in the media, Health Nord has put crisis losses. The last time you did that was when it was ash cloud. If that's Bent Höie's standard for what he thinks is on care, it's bad. The problem in this discussion is that it affects safety and preparedness – for patients, for those who work, whether they are nurses, doctors or pilots – and anyone who has spoken to people who work in that service has been exposed to alarm messages. State Council Höie said in Political Quarter today that he would not explain now. I can see that, because the crisis is acute, and you have to clean it up. But then at least my clear call and recommendation to Höie is that once he thinks it's no longer a crisis, he comes to the Stortinget and explains – thoroughly explain what's actually happening – and that he is now initially creating security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1822	I was very happy when I heard the Council of State in Listhaug earlier in the debate today saying that we older are a resource and not just a burden. It is absolutely right that most people are a resource and not a burden, although some are, at least in terms of economics. When I read the paper, and especially today's business, it happens that I look at job-free ads. It's rarely something that really fits, but the other day there was actually a job vacancy that looked very interesting. It said you had to look at Visindi. I went into Wisdom and read. I had all the qualifications, and I had all the things to do for that job, but then there was one more thing that stood there – the age limit 70 years. Then I thought, Is there a lower age limit for the senior officer? No, there was an upper age limit of 70, so I'm too old to apply. Then I thought it might be time that we looked at the age limits – when we are older a resource – and that we are not blocked from being able to participate in the work. I also went in and looked at what was referred to in the same information – that we had to look at the law on age limits for public officials. It says in Section 2: ‘The general age limit is 70.’ There is not a lower limit for certain jobs, such as senior agents, but an upper limit. My first question to the Council of State, Listhaug, is whether she could think of looking at that law. After all, this government and this majority have succeeded in increasing the limit in the Working Environment Act for when you can cancel people because of age. It's increased from 70 years to 72 years. The progress party wants it to be 75 years old. Personally, I want it completely gone. It would have been interesting if she could think of looking at and assessing whether we could maybe do something about it, so that in public too you can continue a little longer than 70 years. As a former relative of a mother in a nursing home for many years, I have also asked for something, so that's my next question to the Council of State, Listhaug. In very many areas, we have organisations or associations for users. We have it in the schools, there are many kindergartens that have parenting, but in the nursing homes you don't have it. Could it not be an idea to consider, if it could be reasonable, also from those who run hospitals, to have a union of relatives of those who are residents, and who may be demented, so that you had someone to communicate new ideas, new ideas with, also to channel any suggestions for improvement? And to what it says in the paper – maybe you could also channel complaints about any bad behavior, because there are some things that are now said not to be good. There is no one to communicate with today, and that is why I think it would be a good idea to have an investigation of the need and desirability of having relatives at all the hospitals in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1838	At the end of the day – it can definitely be an idea. That's something we'll look at in the context of the family strategy that we're working on. When it comes to the elderly and this job situation, I think it's interesting to see the American presidential election campaign. There's almost no one in the room here who had been old enough to attend it, except for the representative Hagen and a few others. It really says something about the perception of old age and what kind of capacity society sees that he and that age group have. That's where I think we actually have something to learn from the United States. Then you might say that the average age there is very high, but at least you have a different view of it with age and what resources the older ones represent. As far as raising the age limit is concerned, there is something in the Granavolden platform. It is under the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It's a topic we're discussing – when it's going to be implemented. I want to take some other points. The working party is talking a lot about the two-part healthcare system and the care of the elderly. Their policy will lead to it, because it will deprive all the opportunity to choose, except those who have a thick and well-filled wallet. You were in Hå municipality and school food. It's great, but there's a system that's going on without state money. I am told that the municipalities will do well, but this government wants to give priority to the elderly and not children with parents who are responsible for ensuring that they get enough food. Then go to SV and the representative, Andersen. I find it strange that you stand on the platform and boast that you are proposing to earmark money for care for the elderly, while at the same time refusing to have a state-funded care. It is actually earmarking money and a system that ensures that there is the need to control how much money the municipalities get – not the economy of the municipality. This is quite out of touch, and it would be interesting to hear the representative explain it. In the case of BPA, this government has strengthened the scheme. We legislated that arrangement. Yes, we've done a lot of what SV never did in government, so we're on the right track. But now we have a sample that's going to look at the whole scheme, and I'm sure will make a lot of good suggestions. I think it has been a good debate. I think everyone agrees that we want better services, and that's what we have to work to do across the country. It's the local politicians around who are now running the economy and many of the services we're talking about here. I hope that everyone in this room will be able to influence them locally to take this responsibility and give priority to the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1858	With this state budget, government and government parties are adding to the closure of the country's largest emergency hospital. There are strong protests from the trade union community and to strong protests from both the citizens of Oslo and the majority of the City Council in Oslo. To the representative of Stensland, who is the main figure for the Right in this case: When I heard his post and the reply earlier today, I could get the impression that the people of Oslo did not understand their own best, and that the trauma environment of Ullevål, who warns against being split, does not understand its own best. Seven out of ten in Oslo say they're against this. A majority of the new metropolitan government in Oslo is opposed to this. By November at the latest, the representative, Mr Bruun-Gundersen, said that new information had come that allowed the party to be in favour. The representative of Bruun-Gundersen should listen to his own leading health politicians in Oslo. Last month, Aina Stenersen went out and said, "The incredibly beautiful professional environments to which the Minister of Health has not listened, we're going to lift up." She was standing with three out of four government parties and the majority of Oslo City Council and demanded that this madness be stopped. We have to take care of Ullevål hospitals. We have to develop Aker, get it as a local hospital for the whole of the Grorud valley, and then we have to scrape the plans for the gigantic expansion of Gaustad, which is both professionally and economically built on clay feet. One has made sure to run through a project, the largest hospital investment ever in Norway, without adequate financial assessments, without adequate impact assessments. One runs it through as a performance project for strong warnings from those it touches, including us representing the areas around Oslo. What happens is that getting Aker as a local hospital for the whole Grorud valley is pushed into the dark with the government's model. In addition, essential hospital investment elsewhere in Health South-East, for example in Aarhus, in both cancer treatment and psychiatry, is pushed into the dark. That's why it's very unwise, what's now happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1871	The representative, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1876	I drew myself so late that I thought I would use the opportunity to thank for the debate, but it might have been a bit premature. Actually, I should have been so experienced that I should have understood. But I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to thank you for the debate. I think there have been very many important areas of health and care that have been raised in the debate. I am very pleased that the representative Kjerkol among others. promises the sickest of the oldest that are printed too early, and much of what has been revealed in the media is simply unworthy. So to the representative, Toppe, who is asking for a statement about the preparedness: I feel that the Council of State has responded confirmatoryly to it. He wants to come back to Stortinget with a statement. From his posts I also hear that very much of what Kjersti Toppe wants in such an explanation, will be explained. I hope it doesn't take too long for us to get that statement, because preparedness in North Norway is something we're all concerned about, and the acute situation that has arisen now needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1883	Proposal No has been submitted by the Central Party. Thirty-five. The core of this is the termination of the contract between HF and Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance. Why do we ask that? Yes, because the company is unable to deliver what they have undertaken under the contract, and this is not a new situation. Furthermore, the proposal states that we ask the government to ensure that the state takes over the air ambulance service. The reason is that we need to build an operational organisation over time that can provide a solid air ambulance preparedness that is dynamically able to address the ongoing requirements for a full alert, not least in North Norway. The representative Kjerkol informed by his explanation of vote that the Workers' Party will not support this proposal, and unfortunately it is in line with what the Workers' Party did in May 2018, when the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party did not support a similar position from the Red Party, SV and the Center Party. If the Workers' Party had supported it that time, together with the Christian People's Party, we would have been in a different situation today. Otherwise, it is strong to hear that the Council of State Höie says that preparedness is ‘reduced and not optimal’, and that in a situation where Health Nord has put crisis loss — something that does not happen often, fortunately. One has set a crisis loss for an indefinite period of time. Managing Director Vorland says this in a strong and clear way: ‘The situation is worrying’. I think it is strong by the Council of State to call this a not optimal preparedness, and it shows that the seriousness has not come strongly enough into the Council of State. I want to repeat my question about how and from whom the Council of State got information that the planes were defective, with the lack of engine power at low speed during the landing. There is an error that also now affects those aeroplanes operating under strong restrictions. I ask that the Council of State can document from whom and how one was told, and also how the Air Safety Authority reacted when, according to the Council of State's statements here on the interlocutory, they had the same information. What did the Air Safety Authority do in that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1898	The most important resource we have in health is the people who work there. But skilled professionals need modern hospital buildings and equipment to create a good health service. Investments in construction and equipment are therefore important in order to provide patients with the best possible response to healthcare. There is now a significant upgrading of the country’s hospitals in all regions. Overall, health enterprises are planning to invest about 15.9 billion. NOK in Norwegian hospitals in 2020. Investments are now at a higher level than in the past. There are large sums, and there is a great deal of activity in investments in the hospital sector. This is absolutely necessary because it was a significant lag after the previous government. The average level of investment in health enterprises in the first six years of the Solberg government has been around 9.6 billion. kr. In comparison, it was invested for about 7.2 billion. kr annually in the last six years of the Stoltenberg government. The investments currently made are not just about construction or equipment. It is about facilitating research and developing new services. Technological development is faster than any of us really are able to understand. There's an incredible amount going on in medical research. Personalised medicine and gene therapy are only in the starting pit. None of us can predict what the needs will be in the future, but we can make sure that they can make room for development, whether it's about new ways of organizing work on or new digital and technical solutions. The Government proposes to grant loans to new Oslo University Hospital in the State budget for 2020. There is a great need for new construction for both patients and employees at Oslo University Hospital. It's about giving the citizens of Oslo a good hospital offer. Now we can start building a new, big emergency hospital in Aker and get a new medic. We also get a combined and complete regional hospital, including local hospital functions, at Gaustad, and in addition, the Radium hospital is to be further developed as a specialised cancer hospital. A comprehensive competence environment at Gaustad can be the driving force for better treatment and can also provide the basis for research and innovation. Together with the new Life Science building in the Research Park, Oslo will now have an arena for a strong environment in research and health. Overall, this means new and modern hospital building for the citizens of Oslo, and that means that we are facilitating innovation and new solutions. It's good for the people of Oslo and the rest of the country. A rematch will lead to delays. We've been back and forth since the 1990s, and those who lose the most on this are the inhabitants of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1911	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1916	First care for the elderly. The difference between the Progress Party and SV is that we put money on the table to strengthen it. What the government is doing is they're taking money from all the municipalities to make projects in some municipalities. When the few municipalities say they need more money, they get it, but they don't get other municipalities. SV will strengthen the local government sector. We're proposing $6 billion on the other side. kr more, and we also want staffing standards and quality requirements, so that we actually get good elderly care for everyone. So for user-driven personal assistance. After the government took over, a worse arrangement has been made. Fewer sheep. The scheme has been examined – it has become worse. This is because the government and the Council of State, Listhaug, have opposed the regulation so that the municipalities are not able to scald and choose with the scheme, so that there is a great difference between municipalities and municipalities and very many do not receive user-driven personal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1923	The representative Ingvild Kjerkol has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1928	I take the floor alone to the representative Lundtägen's completely incorrect presentation of the Workers' Party's vote in June 2018, where he assigns responsibility to the Workers' Party for the conclusion of a contract with the operator Babcock in the air ambulance. It's completely wrong. The representative Lundtigen has to learn how to calculate votes in this room and figure out who the majority is. That being said, we are not voting in favour of the proposal of the Central Party to cancel the contract with Babcock today, in the midst of a crisis in the service. Collecting all available resources from the old operator would not be sufficient to meet patients’ needs. We in the Labour Party think that is completely irresponsible. We don't want to put Norwegian patients in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1935	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1940	A SV explanation of vote: when it comes to the proposals on the air ambulance service, we will primarily vote in favour of all our own proposals, and where there are advocacy proposals, we run secondary support for the other proposals. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the proposal of the Centre Party. This has been a culmination of a crisis that has become worse and worse as time has passed. Only today have we been given the right that Health Nord has seen a crisis loss, without the Council of State itself being willing to call it a crisis. The airline team thinks that all the planes should be standing, which could make the situation even worse. It has gone from being a crisis to becoming an acute crisis, and the Council of State has not shown sufficient willingness neither to see the seriousness nor to take action in this serious situation. It's a dramatic situation, especially for the people of North Norway. With that, I would like to inform you that SV will follow the Council of State's management the next few days of argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1950	The Kjerkol of the Workers' Party said in its last 3-minute post that for the Workers' Party it is important to have a solidarity of health care. That's good to hear. That our health services, that our care services, that our sick and our elderly are going to have good, safe services funded through the community, is a support bar in our society, and I don't see very many people calling for anything else. But when the Workers' Party talks about solidarity, they draw the concept so far that they also think about government. Many warm health hands in private institutions face an uncertain future if the Workers' Party wins with its view that sick people will not be allowed to choose their own treatment. So we're discussing the health budget for 2020, but we have an opposition that will draw the country into a socialist, communist mindset, where private businesses are a fior, and where everything is to be done by the state. Freedom of choice shall be limited to the maximum. The state must decide, and with socialist thinking, there is of course a sign of equality between state and socialism. Carl I. Hagen had a very good post earlier today on the freedom of choice in the care of the elderly – an offer we all now have the opportunity to make a truly good offer of solidarity, where the public provides funding, but where the user decides which hospital he is going to have, where it doesn't matter if the hospital is run by a municipality, by a non-profit organisation or by a private enterprise. The cost of the big community is the same, but the nursing homes will then compete to have the best possible offer to get customers. That is the vision of the Progress Party. Some of the debate shows that the socialists in the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre stand as far away from the goal of putting users at the centre as possible. In any case, the Progress Party will work towards the objective that our older people will have the freedom to choose for themselves, paid by the public in a genuine solidarity way. This is not about letting anyone have a suction tube into the common safe. This is about letting our citizens choose what is best for them. But it may be too much for socialists to understand what real freedom of choice is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1961	If someone at the beginning of the 2000s had said that in 2019 it was on one day that the state had to pay to run the Bergensbanen, and that the state is in a pinch where you can't provide air ambulance coverage for people in North Norway, you would have shook your head and said that such poor governance of our country would not be possible. But that's actually where we ended up in 2019. There's a red thread going from just Vy to Babcock and a lot of what's now happening in Defense, because the ideology on which this government operates has gone in such a far-reaching direction that you're not willing to take responsibility for the basic security services of our people. It's very serious. It actually happens at a time when, as a country, we have a historic amount of money, but we have a government that takes historically little responsibility. It seems like you don't want to use politics to create safer and better lives for our people. At the top of it all, we have historically many government councils that get historically little done. We have to put a big question mark on what Erna Solberg really is doing in this situation. It's been warning for a long time against the failed air ambulance coverage in North Norway, and it's a very nice thing to get in place. Our country has done much bigger and more complicated things than make sure people have access to ambulances. Somewhere we have to make demands, because there are some things that have to be in place. I'll ask the question: Had Erna Solberg ever accepted that the ambulance coverage had been so bad in her own town, Bergen? Of course she didn't. There's a deep difference in the way we treat people we're now witnessing. The government must tighten up in fields after field. You have responsibility, and we have to expect that people who are going to be in charge of the country will actually take it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1972	We have a health minister who has repeatedly assured that despite Babcock's failure to carry out their mission, the readiness is good. At the latest today, he said early in the Political Quarter that it was over 100 p.m. It's the state council that talks like that. But when a responsible person speaks to the media, managing director Lars Vorland in Health Nord, he says: «The most challenging thing is the uncertainty both we and the population feel». People often say in a position of power that the population is troubled, but that the unrest is unfounded. But here, the people responsible for the preparedness that they themselves know the same turmoil. If you read on in the same case, which is from the VG, the person responsible for the ambulance service, Øyvind Juul, says that there is no doubt that there has been a longer journey time and that he is uncertain about the health consequences it has had yet. He won't be clear on that. The two most responsible, those who have operational responsibility, say straight away that they know a great deal of uncertainty and turmoil about what is happening, but once you've heard the Council of State Bent Höie, it seems that he's been more concerned with the political game than with the preparedness of people, especially in the northernmost states. This happens with a government that has three government councils talking about being responsible for preparedness – an emergency minister that no one understands what's going on, a minister of public health and a minister of health. They should start working on the specific issues and listening to people and the professional environments. What is so terrible about this matter is that it has been warned against this for two years. Some of the speakers have said that it is an acute crisis, but it is a notified crisis. It's been warned against that time after again. The centre party took it up very actively this summer, and what was the Council's response then? Let me quote from the Newspaper: ‘The Central Party has raised concerns about Northern preparedness to lower its votes.’ It was Bent Höie's feedback this summer when we noted that there could be acute things happening in the Norwegian air ambulance during the winter – and so it happened. It is time for the Council of State, Bent Höie, to put an end to the electoral campaign – now he is leaving as a Vice-Chairman in the Right Soon – and to take responsibility as a Council of State. The most basic task we have as a state is to secure yours and my security. Then it's time to put away rhetoric, slogans and condemnation of other parties and see how we can remedy the situation of those in the acute crisis that we now see in a very important part of the country. There's been trouble for two years. They need peace, they need security. I believe the Central Party's response that we should in the long term get away from a tendering system and go to government is the only right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e1990	The government parties defend the health business model, while the Center Party and many others are critical. The reason for this is that the model is based on measurement-based management, where complete and good patient treatment comes under the shadow of unit price financing and DRG points. Heavy and important decisions are taken behind closed doors in corporate governance and members of the board must not be held accountable to voters. Decisions that largely concern the population are not treated democratically in the Grand Duchy, and that is what we think is unfortunate. The business model also goes far too far in having a purely commercial focus, and patients, relatives and trade unions feel that money and earnings are more important than the services offered. Patients must be treated with a profit in order to invest in hospitals, and it should not be necessary to do so in Norway. The centre party is criticised for not supporting state-funded care for the elderly. There were, moreover, no lots other than the Progress Party which initially wanted such a solution, but a test scheme has come into place. The country's municipalities were invited with, approx. 20 were interested, but most drew, except six. We believe that this is not a fair arrangement, and we believe that the pot should be returned to the community. In our alternative budget, we propose to wind up the procedure from 1 May, and we're adding 666 million. kr for all municipalities in the country. Finally, today, the air ambulance crisis in the north has been the subject of a lot of debate, and it is entirely in place. If the saint's situation had been an isolated incident with a company that had otherwise lived up to expectations, it would not have been such a strong criticism. If the Minister of Health and the Government had taken some of the strong signals that came in connection with the tendering process seriously, this might have been avoided. In the debate on the cancellation of the tender in June last year, the Council of State rejected the claim from the Central Party that Norway was in a state of health emergency. The council also said that his and the government's main responsibility in the matter was to help the population feel as secure as possible that they have normal preparedness. The people of the north have not felt safe since 1 July last year. We all knew that Babcock cut less on standby than the competitor, but still won the tender because of the lower price. Now, one-and-a-half years after — after a nearly continuous emergency crisis and many, many additional measures — you can ask yourself if it has been worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2005	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2010	There was a heated debate on the tender in May 2018. It was not limited to the question of transfer of activities or not. I can count. It was the voices of both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party that meant that one did not get the agreement that one should get at the time. Proposal No. 35 from the Central Party does not agree that the State should assume responsibility from today. Sólsag — sólsag — is not in favour of it, for now there is a critical situation, where Health Nord has put crisis losses indefinitely. The reason for my post is that the representative of Kjerkol says in Dagbladet: ‘Now that the State has to take over the job as a private operator, it is down to Babcock. The working party is that the state will take over the air ambulance permanently in the long term," says Kjerkol to Dagbladet today at 0 p.m. 09.55. Now it's five hours later. I had expected that statement to stand by.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2022	The representative of Tryve Schlagsvold Vedum is trying to create a picture that I have not taken this situation seriously, and that I have a different language to that of the management of Health Nord and the HF. That's not right. I started my article in the budget debate today by saying that this is a serious situation, and I have underlined the seriousness of the whole day today and in my comments yesterday. What the representative refers to related to the Political Quarter was a description of the situation before this event happened on the weekend. Then it was correct to say that at that time we had a standby in Troms and Finnmark that was over 100 pst. with the additional measures put in place. But that the situation is serious, I've been clear all along. It also falls on its own unreasonableness that we have not taken this situation seriously in the past. There is a reason why the government has deployed the Defense Helicopters in Kirkenes, and there is a reason why I have asked for daily reports on this. I wouldn't have done it if I thought everything was fine. I am pleased that the Center Party also agrees that it is the right time to have a briefing on this and a review of this to Stortinget. It'll be another time, when we've been given the opportunity to go into this. So there's been a misunderstanding about what I said in the question round earlier. The concrete technical challenges that caused the planes to be put on the ground, we got to know each other this weekend. But there have also been other technical challenges with the planes. I want to come back to what times we have been informed about the various other technical challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2033	The representative, Barth Eide, was concerned about global health and climate. It's an interesting debate that might be even more interesting when we get abroad. However, it could be useful to remember that Norway is making great contributions to the CEPI, Gavi and The Global Fund, and it is also not new that we have tropical diseases in Europe. It is said that one of the few things that Mussolini did was eradicate malaria from Italy, where 15 000 to 20 000 died every year a hundred years ago. There's been a lot of talk about ideology and air ambulance tenders. This service, as long as it has been a State service, has been on tender. Since 1988, when Tove Strand Gerhardsen filed a state service case, this has been under tender. So when we're attacked because this is ideology, it's a complete bomb shot. This is the continuation of a policy that has remained in Norway for 30 years. Then I'm not surprised by the discussion about Ullevål, but one jumps elegantly over that this has been a process that has gone on for very many years. Many professionals have been inside, and there is agreement that it makes sense to gather the professional environments at Ullevål and Gaustad, and then there is disagreement in parts of the trade unions. But the consequence of not doing anything is that we continue the situation where we have a large concentration of professionals in Oslo, and where we have an overweight of superiors and specialists in Oslo, which goes beyond other parts of the country. I think it's pretty significant that the Center Party thinks it's perfectly okay not to do anything about a situation where a patient at the OUS costs 20 pst. more than one patient in Health Bergen. It's an important part of the discussion, as it jumps elegantly over. Yes, this costs a lot of money. It's an investment of over 30 billion. kr. But the OUS has an operating budget of about 25 billion. kr per year. So in the light of the current operation in the OUS, the investment is not so colossal. It hasn't come out either. Otherwise, I think the most significant thing about the debate is the interesting new word change we have had between the Centre Party and the Labour Party. When the Center Party takes lines at the Workers' Party, and we get a very open argument about what really happened, between the two parties, it's spectacular. This may indicate that there is no red-green community in the health field anymore. Otherwise, in terms of the issue we could see now at the end between Lundtigen and Kjerkol, I share the reality of Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2046	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2051	To the so-called loose proposals on the air ambulance service: we are going to support everyone, some subsidiaryly. We have a proposal that the Church Hospital should be completed, with intensive care at level 2. To the Ullevål proposal: I want to say to the Right that we are making proposals that are in line with what the majority of the inhabitants of Oslo support, including the plural in the Right, according to the recent investigation. For distribution: I hear what the representative Bekkeword, the chairman of the committee, says. And then I hear what the Council of State says, but I feel that the Council of State says ‘orientation’. We're asking for a deal, and it's – for me, at least – a little bit more extensive. I'm not aware that we think it's going to come at a very different time. It's kind of going to apply now. I understand that this is not happening today, but I asked for a deal this summer, and we have not yet seen it. We can't wait until it's ours and summers again. It must come quite immediately, if not today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2060	The representative Tryve Schlagsvold Vedum has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2066	It's a crisis we're in. Unfortunately, it's not acute. It is a notified crisis, and the Council of State Höie has not taken that crisis seriously. In the summer, State Council Höie said, ‘I can’t see that the Central Party has any other motive with the crisis rather than trying to get some extra votes in North Norway.’ And the title is ‘No Air Ambulance Crisis’. Unfortunately, there is an air ambulance crisis, and there has been an air ambulance crisis, and Bent Höie has forgotten to listen to those who work in the service every day. We've been listening and seeing this for two years now. So this happens, and then there's so much prestige in it that you're not willing to do the grip. We have said that we will not force a statement today, because we want you to be able to do the job, but it must come quickly. In that case, the parties to the government should actually support our proposal No. 36, where we ask for an independent review of the entire air ambulance supply process. The government shouldn't fear knowledge, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2073	The representative of Stensland was up here again at the pulpit and argued that it is wise to lay down Norway's largest emergency hospital, Ullevål Hospital, on a very failing basis, and where resistance is not only great but increasing. It is not surprising that people around Norway are concerned about health, safety and preparedness when even those who are walking away from Stortinget here in Oslo are not listened to. Torch trains outside Stortinget are not even registered on the part of government parties. The majority of the elected members of Oslo City Hall, including three out of four government parties, are not being listened to, they are just being run over. The government parties say no, we know best, we know how this should be. Other disciplines, such as Akershus, Akershus Medical Association and the Aarhus Medical Association, also warn against the plans that are being run through here. It is the largest hospital investment ever in Norway, without a sufficient financial assessment, without an adequate impact assessment of what it is in favour of and without a willingness to raise and assess Ullevål as an alternative for the future. The one request is just how to make the best use of the resources already available to you in Ullevål Hospital. So in Ullevål Hospital, it's approx. 11000 sqm with either new date barley or refurbished to today's standard. So it's just going to have to be equal to the Earth. Instead, a building house must be there, and then a huge investment must be made on a site in Gaustad which warns very many that it is too small for such a giant investment. I also have to say that I am disappointed that the Workers' Party is not willing to go in and at least participate in further investigation into this matter, but instead lie down in the back of the government and make sure to give a clear signal to a loan framework of almost 30 billion. kr through the treatment of this State budget. It's unwise. It could hit important investments in the rest of Health South-East and in the rest of the country also if a seafarer does this project, which has no good anchoring, neither economic nor professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2084	The representative Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2089	To clarify, I was talking about bringing together the trade unions in Oslo, that's what this case is all about. We need to put that in place, both for the sake of operation and for the sake of having available professionals, to have a future-oriented hospital offer in Oslo and to be able to raise the investment in Aker. The consequence of not doing anything is that nothing happens on Aker either. The representative Gülsvik is talking about leveling buildings with the soil on Ullevål. Well, the consequence of protecting the hospital on Ullevål, which Gülsvik claims, is that we have to do the same thing on Gaustad. Then it's obviously okay for the Center Party to level with the soil of the Rikshospitale and the buildings of Gaustad, but it's not possible to level Ullevål hospitals with the earth. There will be a lot of symbols and strange images in this discussion, but this is actually about building a hospital structure that can withstand meeting the future in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2096	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2101	This is where the representative in Stensland is talking about bringing together the professional community, but the one that adds up here is the exact opposite. One should split up a trauma environment that's on Ullevål today. There are strong warnings from those who are in reality, from the professional community, the population of Oslo and a majority in Oslo City Council. In addition, a few more important things should be done: to provide a sheep Aker as a local hospital for an overall Groruddalen, both to be able to take away capacity that is currently at Aarhus, which is overcrowded and needs relief, but also to provide better health services for the citizens of Oslo. We're also going to take care of the Rikshospital with the functions that are today. So you have to look at what's going to make the future better. However, the solution now chosen is a poor solution for both Oslo and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2108	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2125	At the request of the Business Committee, the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be the possibility of changing lines of up to four lines with replies from the main number of members of the government, and six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, it is suggested that those drawing on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2136	I would like to start by thanking the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. One might say, however, that it is easier to work with the budget of the Committee under a majority government than under a minority government. I would also like to say that it is positive that some adjustments have been made during the Committee's proceedings. It doesn't change, however, that we're left with a multiple that goes into a bad budget to make use of the whole country. The Centre Party focuses its alternative state budget on Norwegian jobs. We focus on value creation throughout the country. We're taking it seriously. And not least, we are putting forward a green budget – a budget that takes climate policy from the bubble of symbolism to a policy to cut emissions and increase value creation. I'm going to spend a little time on the central party's policy, because there's a part that has problems understanding him – not out there in people, but in this room. The central party's business policy is much more than what we are discussing today. It's about good communities, about services close to people, about road and rail bets, and not least broadband and mobile coverage. It is about education, it is about taxes and taxes – not least the need for a more business-friendly tax regime in Norway, as a counterpart to the government’s tax programme. I would say that the Central Party has presented the greenest proposal to the State budget. It is important that we get away from symbolism policy and into a functioning climate policy. I'll do some examples. The government fronts as climate action that will increase the CO 2 charge for our fishermen. They're putting in place a compensation scheme. She should be temporary. So we're not talking about a permanent solution, we're talking about a temporary solution. So the question is, do we have a fishing fleet that is able to convert on the basis of this? Or is it a do, just to bring more money into the treasury? This will challenge other fisheries policy objectives. We're talking about expanding the season, we're talking about fishing in less profitable species. It is clear that when fishermen get a tax bomb from the government, it will be harder to get an increase in fish throughout the year and in the less profitable species. The center part has a more focused action. We want to add 60 million. kr for conversion measures and fleet renewal and climate change measures for the smaller part of the fleet, i.e. the fleet below 15 metres. It is a concrete climate policy. Another area is the forest. There's the protective tank very strongly in the government. The answer from the Center Party is an active forestry. We want to plant more forest. We want better care of the forest. We want concrete measures to increase the use of wood. We've seen 10 billion. kr to a fund to support the industry linked to green carbon. And perhaps even more importantly, we will continue the tax exemption for biofuels. The removal of the tax exemption for biofuels will give 700000 tonnes in increased emissions. Now one has, as I understand it, maybe postponed this for a few months. There must be an admission that the measure is bad, but one still implements it – not from 1 January, but from summer. The center party disagrees with that. We will make good conditions both for industry and for those who are about to make the change. Another suggestion that hits business in our alternative budget is that we want to set off 1 billion. NOK in a CO 2 fund for industrial transport. But it's a paradox that in the discussion about being in favour of or against climate, a very suspended one is that the Senter party wants the fuel charges down to the red-green level again. That's what clearly defines whether a lot is for or against climate. I strongly disagree with that. We have far more targeted measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and not least to bind CO 2 in the forest. In the agricultural field, there is also a climate debate. Agriculture is subject to many climate measures that agriculture has nothing to do with, for example: reducing food waste. That's good, but it's hard for the farmers to do something about what's happening at the store. A concrete measure taken by the Centre Party is that we want to have a climate fund set up for agriculture. This is a measure that all four government parties have been in favour of, but they do not. I think a climate fund would have a big impact on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. Then get ready. It has been an important matter for the Storting to put in place the stockpiling of cereals, to take a national responsibility to secure the preparedness of our country. We had a Christian People's Party on the team. There was a multiple in Stortinget for this. The state budget is coming. They put a line over it. And I have to say that I'm reacting to the foundation: the government wants to bet on cereal cultivation in the third world as an alternative, it is said – combined with the assumption that the same thing happens, trade and trading systems will work. It can only mean that in a crisis situation, it is obvious that an African grain should be purchased to meet national needs. That seems to me to be a rather inconceivable policy, which I strongly disagree with. I am very pleased that the opposition party at Stortinget is gathering behind this proposal. It has also been a discussion about lead leads. The government wanted to delete the fishing effort in the budget and transfer the funding to the fish stocks. The Minister for Fisheries has argued heavily for this as a good solution. Then there were negotiations at Stortinget, and a feeling that the lead was afraid. But then you get the setting. It says: ‘The majority believe that the introduction of a new scheme should take place over time.’ At the rate you have in the reduction of the flow rate, it's gone to next year. The frontend is not afraid, it is only suspended. Seafarers are close to the heart of the Center Party. We have been working with Stortinget for years – and finally we got it – to find out if it is possible to introduce Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters. The answer from the then government was that this is not possible, so we don't have to figure it out. Now we've figured it out and found out that it's possible, but the government still argues with the reason that it's not desirable. The central party believes that the seafarers are an important basis for the maritime industry in Norway. So there's something new in this year's budget. So we're going to spend 160 million. kr for the purpose of decommissioning a profitable export industry. Only until next year should be considered 160 million. NOK to this. It is the very symbol of a business policy that has punctuated. We should use resources to focus on industries, not on disincentives. In addition, the compensation scheme, which is now finally established, is very poor and will give million losses to many farmers. People are freaking out for Christmas. We have had two Agriculture Ministers from the Progress Party who have said that no one should lose financially on the closure of fur animal nutrition. We now have an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party who says that it has never been planned to give full compensation. It's a matter that's upsetting me, and I think here you can't push the pussy in front of you. Here, the Greatness of Man must rise and ask what moral responsibility we have toward those who are at the mercy of this. We'll probably come back to that. I would like to address the proposals made by the Centre Party, with the exception of proposal No. 19th@item: inlistbox It is not possible to record now because it has been voted over in connection with the processing of the financial position. I will end by saying: Let's turn climate policy and industrial policy into two sides of the same story, and where there is no meat and diesel tax at the red-green level that is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2190	The representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2197	It may seem that the Center Party has taken a little bit of Møller's tran when they have set up their alternative state budget. They want to present themselves as rescuers and women of the districts, but when it comes to reality, they have in their state budget many cuts that affect district work places. Among other things, they cut 11 million. kr to the Competition Authority, they deposit the Election Directorate with 25 posts in Tønsberg, and in particular they will cut the consultancy, which will affect, among other things. Altin and more in Brønnøsund. What we've heard in response from the Center Party is that the problems are to be solved either by the Stortinget or in the departments. Is this the real district policy of the Central Party – moving posts to Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2202	We try as often as we can to take a dose of Møller's tran in the Center Party. It's healthy for both the brain and the body. I have to say that I am a little surprised when the Right makes it to streamline the public sector, to cut down on state bureaucracy, like centralization. It is right that we cut something in the Competition Authority. That's because we think they can solve the problems they're set to do, by 110 million. kr instead of 120 mill. kr. We don't think it's necessary for us to have a special election directorate to control choices every two years. I think it's a task a few people in the department did very well. When it's about the Brønnøsund Registers, we have a plus there, so it's not like we're cutting flat. In addition, the central government budget will more than compensate for the number of workplaces in municipalities around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2211	Another important area, which the representative did not mention in his inaugural statement on time, is the position of the party in relation to the EEA Agreement. We see in the budget and in the debates that the Central Party will terminate the EEA Agreement and replace it with a free trade agreement. To believe that a free trade agreement from 1973 will be the solution must be to believe in Christmas at this time. Is there anything company managers and many employees both in industrial enterprises and not least in aquaculture farms that I have visited in Northern and in District Norway have said otherwise, it is how important the EEA Agreement is for jobs and employment in the districts. Most of what is produced at the workplace in District Norway is exported through the EEA Agreement. Does the representative believe that these managers or employees, who are concerned about their jobs, are at risk from the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2216	I think I have more faith in Santa Claus than I have in the government – I must honestly admit that. When it comes to the EEA, we're working for now, to get a statement to see what the room for action is. It's typically right to protest at it. When we wanted to bring forward the action space for Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base, one said: No, there is no point in finding out – there is no answer; we have received an answer; it is possible. When we fight to preserve the Home Rule, the solution of the Right was: No, we can't, here we have to stretch our hands in the value of Brussels. We took the fight, and we won. We want to, and have proposed it for Stortinget – and I am happy to, among other things, us. last received the Workers' Party's support on this – that we need to find alternatives to the EEA Agreement. It's not a good idea to claim that the Center Party will play district workplaces. After all, our whole party is built on developing the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2223	It was quite clarifying from Pollestad, that he has more faith in Christmas Eve than in much else. And I've known that for quite a long time. When one says that a CO 2 tax does not matter to the fisheries, I have to ask: is it not a product to be sold? Is it not also about what is in a market? He speaks nicely of the care of the forest. Yes, what is the Central Party's policy in that area? Is it such that then one should plant anywhere without pushing after, as I have seen in between around the country? But what was most interesting here was the exchange of lines with Ebbesen. When the representative does not have a clear answer about the EEA, and we know that North Norway, the whole coast, is doing so well because of the EEA Agreement, while the Central Party really wants to put it at risk, which is really going to go beyond district jobs: is the Centre really credible in terms of district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2235	When it comes to the party's trustworthiness, we can only say it to me, and then the representative of Skkelstad gets to say what he means. Then it's up to the voters to evaluate who they think is trustworthy or not. When it comes to our use of climate policy and forest as climate action, I fully believe that there is too little used tool, and that we have a great potential for planting, driving and mowing more forest. We do not believe in protection as a solution for forests as climate action. This probably separates our two parties quite significantly from each other. When it comes to fishing fleet discharges, yes, we want to reduce fishing fleet emissions, but we don't want to do it in a way that borders on other fisheries policy objectives, nor in a way that further attempts to structure our fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2245	The central party and the Christian People's Party are two parties that stand very close to each other in value. That is why I am all the more disappointed when the representative Pollestad makes it a problem that this year the current government has chosen to strengthen the aid budget by half a billion dollars to improve food preparedness in some of the world's poorest countries. I find it hard for the Center Party to problemate such things, and my question to the representative Pollestad is: Where does he think we get the most food security again for half a billion dollars – in the high-cost country of Norway, or in some of the world's poorest countries in the third world?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2250	I thank you for the question. I have spent the weekend reading the book «Hareide's Case», so I feel very included in the inner processes and in the direction that the Christian People's Party did there. And it is clear that if the Christian People's Party had not chosen to join the government with the Progress Party, I still believe that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party would have been allies in the matter of establishing emergency storage in Norway. Of course, one should do both. One should focus on agricultural aid – it is very important – but as a rich country, we also have a self-responsive responsibility for our own preparedness, and cereals are very important in this way. Norway will not establish a framework for emergency storage. My criticism is that the combination of this with production in the third world and the well-functioning trading system gives a result that I think is illegitimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2257	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2262	We are in the middle of a time when the Norwegian economy is to be transformed. I think there are in particular three challenges that address industrial policy: greenhouse gas emissions need to be cut significantly, differences between people need to be reduced, and the proportion of jobs needs to be significantly increased. That is why we need a policy that more than now facilitates a development in which several of the great opportunities we have as a country are exploited to create forward-looking and secure jobs across the country. We also need to significantly strengthen the businesses and the opportunities that lie there for us to produce goods and services that increase our export revenues, improve the trade balance and thus stabilise the very foundation of our welfare society. ‘Let us always bear in mind that we are living by each other’s work, and I underline each other’s work, not others’, said former Minister of Finance Erik Brofoss in the 1940s. With a falling employment rate, we now lack 50 000 employees to be on average in the last ten years. In other words, more and more people live by the work of others than by the work of each other. During this budgetary debate, we will clearly hear from the government parties that this budget is well adapted to the situation. We heard it in the finance debate, and I guess that speech still hangs in the government parties. But that's not true. I expected that at a time when we needed to change, we had got a budget that was much more eaten and focused on the many opportunities in business. We can already see that we have a government that is better able to talk about conversion than to facilitate conversion into Norwegian business. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we propose a number of important measures that we believe will strengthen business opportunities. In the maritime sector, we propose a package for the renewal of the short-sea fleet. It's about a concession scheme, it's about top finance through GIEK, on which the government can't deliver, and we have this with better depreciation rules. These three measures, in our view, would help to bring up the activity related to the renewal of the short-sea fleet. It would also improve the climate, it would improve the chances of getting more goods across the sea, and not least it would create more activity at Norwegian shipyards at a time when the activity is low. In addition to maritime policy, we state in our alternative state budget that when Norway is now to be further developed as a maritime nation, it is time to demand that Norwegian wage and working conditions apply to Norwegian seas and seas. We have promoted a Document 8 proposal on this together with the SV and the Center Party, and I welcome the consideration of this in Stortinget. What is the government doing? I believe that the government's industrial policy is almost absent. Where efforts should be strengthened, efforts should be weakened. A good example is Investinor. The Government proposed to remove the mandate for direct investment. I have not heard anyone who is concerned with business development, wish or suggest that one should go away from the direct investment of the Investinor. No matter who talks out in business, there's access to capital that's essential. We need more and stronger arrangements, not fewer. We need arrangements from early-stage capital to venture capital, and also in some cases equity. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we propose a number of measures, including: strengthening the clustering programme, we propose to strengthen Siva in several areas, but specifically targeting the catapult system, we propose a stronger commitment to health and, of course, we propose that direct investment to Investinor be continued. We believe that we have a set of important measures that need to be continued, and we also believe that the state is an important partner for industry and business. We want to play on layers of business in the green shift. We believe in dialogue about the margins and opportunities and that we can also discuss those things that may limit. But what does the government do? Well, they're introducing things overnight without having perspective on what's actually happening. Removing exemptions for CO2 tax is a good example of that. The possibilities through it are delineated and sacrificed. As a contrast to the government in that area, the Workers' Party would have an agreement, an agreement with industry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, enabling industry to address the challenges. Norsk Industri and Stein Lier-Hansen have described this as follows: ‘The consequences can be so dramatic that industrial production as we need for the green shift will not be able to develop further in Norway. This is a hopeless climate policy and a miserable business policy.’ This is what Stein Lier-Hansen said. Hopeless climate policy and miserable industrial policy are, in fact, a good summary of that. Yara's ammonia production on the island of Here Island could now have increased costs of 25 million. NOK and 65 employees may be challenged. The Minister of Economic Affairs corresponds to Telemarksavisa that he is not concerned about closures because of precisely this change. I wonder if the Minister of Industry actually understands what it means to run an industrial enterprise – and with the demanding margins. I also wonder whether the Minister of Industry in the budget negotiations when the government adopted this was present, and whether he also said at the time ‘I’m not worried’, because at least I had been. We have unique conditions in this country for growth and innovation, including: in our industry, through access to renewable energy, leading competences and the Norwegian working model, and not least access to capital, if we choose to use the capital of our companies and our industry. But then we have to bet more on our businesses. This is why the Workers' Party is proposing a strong increase to Enova and not least to the Eco-Technology Scheme under Innovation Norway. These are good instruments that should be further developed and strengthened. With our proposal, we would have 1 billion. kr of the Eco-Technology Scheme. It would have been positive for the companies, and it would have been positive for the climate, the jobs and the future. This means that, with the Workers' Party's alternative budget, the chances of success with the many possibilities would have been greater than what is now unfortunately the case. But this fall has contained more than just business policy, which I have been to so far. It has also included important parts of agricultural policy and policy, and one of the themes that have been fur animals, which have affected us quite strongly. When we discussed the issue of the fur ban on 13 June this year, there was no doubt: a large majority did not want to cause economic losses to fur farmers. I think a total big deal agreed on that. Michael Tetzschner concluded an article in which he reasoned very well about the issues that existed, as follows: «The end result, a full compensation, is the only one that applies when the Stortinge gets this back and sees if you have lived up to the standard that we are adopting here today.» But is that what happened? Is that a full compensation? Was it finally «a good order», as the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen said in the same debate, so late as in June this year? What we've been given is not a good order. The size should have the consequences of the regulation assessed before it was implemented. The Minister of Agriculture said in his presentation of the regulation: ‘There have been major changes since the hearing.’ This means that more breeders are getting significantly better." But it is no more important than that it is so immaterial that the regulation did not have to be sent out again. With regard to the change in regulation that is now in place, there is no doubt that many people believed in the good words of June 13 – good words that are now nothing but good words, because they are at least not part of the regulation that applies. Finally, if we are to succeed, business needs predictability and business needs predictability. The games that governments and government parties have been doing are not good. When one day you close the direct investment to Investinor, then the next one to open them, it's not predictability. When one day you cut leadership subsidies, which will hit the coast hard, and introduce it again on the other day, that is not good and predictable policy. One day when small cuts are made in welfare schemes for fishermen, it is introduced again the next day. That's how you can keep going and keep going about what's unforeseeable from this government. Unpredictability is a striking word in the government's budget harvest and in the government's party's budget. We need the opposite: predictability and a stronger will and ability to use the many opportunities that are there, which can best be solved in a good interaction where the state is a good partner for industry and business. We can't get that with today's government. We will only have that with a completely different government than the four parties that govern the country today. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 16–18, from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2300	The representative of Terje Aasland has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2307	I would like to hear representative Aasland's answer to the following questions: Why is it right that Jernia should pay property taxes, while Biltema should be released?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2312	When we have the tax system we have in Norway, it's thoughtful, and it's basically good. It is such that it ensures that most people are involved and cover our well-being. Then there are some statements in the wealth tax that can be well discussed, as the Labour Party has also said, but it is not that we want to remove the wealth tax for that reason. When I hear a right-wing representative talking about the wealth tax as a starting point for business, I'm a little surprised, because there's someone who's really talked a lot about removing the wealth tax, but who hasn't done it at all, it's just right in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2319	Yes, it's true that we've lowered the property tax, so it's clear to everyone. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party will increase it by 5.3 billion. kr. That is, Jernia has to pay even more, and Biltema has an even better competitive advantage. But I can use another example to take it a little bit closer to the representative's place of residence. The beer of the Lundetang, which I suppose the representative can enjoy in the Ski, is subject to property taxes, while the Ringnes, which stands next to it, and I believe it tastes exactly the same, is not subject to taxes on wealth. Why does it have to be like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2326	The Labour Party is open that we want property taxes and that it is right to have a property tax, and then we can discuss some of them. But I don't realize that the Right manages – tall and dark – to go to the pulpit in Stortinget and talk about the wealth tax, when they sit with power and could remove it. The biggest problem of the loin tangent is that the right is talking about the property tax without doing anything about it. I really want to encourage the representative of Løvaas to go home and do the job at home with other Right-wing representatives and make proposals that will allow the government, if necessary, to remove the wealth tax, which they are so deeply concerned about there. But the property tax now paid by the Lundetang, they pay on the basis of a tax rate set by the Right Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2333	The Christian People's Party has, for a number of years, programmed a device of property taxes in which a distinction is made between taxes on private property and working capital. After the government change in 2013, both the current government and the NHO have realised that this is a wise arrangement of the property tax, among other things. because it discourages the competitive disadvantage of Norwegian companies in relation to foreign companies that exempt property taxes and because the tax is an extra burdensome burden on Norwegian business at a time when there has been a slow down. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party proposes to increase the wealth tax by 5.3 billion. kr. This means that the reliefs in the taxes on wealth on working capital, which have helped Norwegian companies – among others. The shipbuilding industry in my home country, Møre and Romsdal — through years of low profitability and high indebtedness — is being zeroed out with a pen stroke. Does the representative of Aasland think that there is proper medicine for a shipyard cluster that is still kneeling after a period of tough conversions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2340	I think there are other things that could greatly alleviate the yard industry, not least one of what I was in my post: having a proper conditioning system for old ships, having a top finance scheme through GIEK and, not least, better depreciation rules. I think that in sum it had created more activity at Norwegian shipyards. The second thing I think we should think about more is if we're going to add special leads to the tools we have, so they actually end up with activity in the Norwegian yard. Enova is a good example of that. To the wealth tax: It is therefore not the Workers' Party that has said that we want to remove the wealth tax – it is the parties that the Christian People's Party identifies itself most with now. Then I believe that it must also be the task of the Christian People's Party, internally in the government, to argue for the removal of the property tax, if that is what is the saluting thing about the activity of the Norwegian yard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2350	I listened very much to the representative of Aasland, who started his speech in praising the father of the plan economy and went over to tell us about the need for capital access. At the same time, the party is willing to impose additional restrictions on business by adding even more taxes on wealth, to a few. To follow up on what the representative Eidem Løvaas said: How does the representative Aasland think it is to have a two-part system that turns out so unfortunate? Car themes, which were used as an example, then have a different tax pressure than the equivalent and even non-resident owners. Does the representative of Aasland think that there is a good deal of money tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2357	Now I can repeat that it is not that the Workers' Party has the utmost desire to remove the property tax. It's the other parties that have. And the wealth tax doesn't hit the businesses, it hits the owners of the businesses. I think that if a travels around and talks a little bit about business, there's access to risk capital you initially demand. It is done very often, from a very large number of teams, and there is no doubt that the devices and the tools we have – which work well on the way – could be both more powerful and stronger precisely to underpin the many opportunities we have around in Norwegian business. It was some of what I tried to find in my post. We now need – at a time when Norway is to be converted – more opportunities and more access to capital. I think some of the important thing to succeed is that the state is a much more active and good partner for the many good ideas that are out in Norwegian business, so that we can further develop Norwegian business – instead of focusing unilaterally on property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2366	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2371	A representative from the Workers' Party started his post by notifying them that the government parties wanted to talk about the success of Norway, and that it was wrong. Now I'm going to start by saying that it's going well in Norway, and that's right. The economy is flourishing, fewer unemployed, employment is increasing, and urban and rural areas are creating values from the smallest individual enterprise to the largest and traditional companies both at sea and at sea. Before today's debate, I want to mention what I heard today's news early. For 15 consecutive years, the United Nations has named Norway the world’s best country to live in. It's okay to have as a backdrop for today's debate. In good times we shall also equip ourselves for the future, and therefore the Right is well pleased with the budget. It is steady, it is sober, and it facilitates increased value creation and competitiveness. Four out of five new jobs have come in the private sector, and so must it in the future. Norway has already won the public sector world championship. Private sector value creation is the basis of the welfare society. When we talk in the Right about a sustainable welfare society, it's about a society that is sustainable for the environment and the climate, sustainable social, but not least economically sustainable. Without a healthy economy and without growth, we will not achieve our objectives in either climate policy or social policy. We have to realize once and for all that we are in a great transition, and probably it is that in the future it will be a continuous transformation. The development of biotechnology and information technology is now moving faster than we can take in. The most creative, the adaptive, the fast – they are the winners of the future. Norway has a great advantage there. We're creative, we're quick as people. We are very adaptive – a inherited instinct through generations to create a lot out of little – and we are fast. A small nation, with resources, highly educated population and digital maturity — factors that make us have a head start in many areas compared to many other nations. The right and government parties will underline the importance of a good tax regime for business. We are now changing the option tax to make it more relevant to even more start-ups, and we will consider further adjustments in time. A few more words about the property tax: there is a criminal tax on Norwegian ownership. Property taxes on working capital are, to say the least, a major disadvantage for Norwegian owners competing with foreign actors. The tax is distorting, and it is of great importance that tax-based incentives for private ownership be strengthened strongly in the coming years. We're on it, but we're not on it. Border trade is also a growing challenge. The estimates are now close to 17 billion. kr leaked out of the country, which gets direct results for both producers and trade. Next year, a border trade barometer will be launched, and I look forward to it. It will provide us with a broader knowledge base for a review of how border trade can be slowed down or reduced. Right will also work on this in the process of our major election programme for the period 2021-2025. There are a few product categories that are the main drivers of border trade, and common to them is that they are subject to excise duty. There is also some concern about the freedom of customs duty on textile products. We have registered that professional organisations and individual shops warn that this can turn out unlucky. That is why we also ask the government to follow this development closely. Five minutes is not enough to present our full argument, so I would also like to refer to several of the Right Members of the Committee who will later highlight in particular two major areas for which there is no time in this article: agriculture and fisheries/fisheries. That being said, many framework conditions are important for the whole of business. I would therefore like to conclude with a little about the EEA Agreement. This is Norway’s main trade agreement. To give the impression that small Norway can negotiate better agreements is to seduce the Norwegian people. For anyone who wants an investigation of the option to the EEA Agreement, I would like to point out the ongoing process in the United Kingdom. There's the investigation, please. Over the year, I have visited hundreds of businesses from the highest north to the deepest south. No one, not a single one, has suggested that they want anything other than the EEA. Today's measurements indicate that a new government constellation will consist of lots that wish to tear this agreement into pieces. In addition, when you take into account that the workers' party's rich uncles, i.e. the trade union movement, are closely divided in the middle of the question – yes, we already see the outlines that the election in 2021 can be a yes or no to the EEA. Here is Right-wing clear: on behalf of the Norwegian business community and on behalf of Norwegian employees, we are honoring the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2397	One of the industries that I think we are going to invest in in Norway in the future is the tourism industry. In the budget submitted by the government for 2020, it is cut in one of the main muscles of travel, namely the marketing of Norway, by more than 50 million. kr. It is also cut in cultural activities on national tourist roads and in the regional development funds used by the counties to a large extent for tourism activities, including tourism. Arctic Race of Norway was well supported by the three Northern Norwegian states. I wonder what the government's budget for 2020 is going to do to make it easier for us to get a commitment to travel life as a future industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2404	Travel life is not just a future industry; it is, to the most extent, an existing industry that is going incredibly well. That is why there is still considerable funding in this year's government budget for a further investment in travel. But it's also the way that when we look at the use of the instruments, your money and my money that we're going to distribute to others, we're going to use them in places where it's most accurate, and where it gives the most effect and most dollars back. When a diet is getting better and better, you may need to turn something down on that switch and rather turn up a little on others. It's not like you just keep throwing money after a business that goes well. So I wonder a little bit, because the representative represents the red-green side that in several areas tries to limit tourism to Norway – they want tax on tourism, and they want to limit cruise calls: why should you market more to bring people to a country when you obviously want to try to keep them away?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2411	The answer to why we're going to market more is that we only have 50 pst. coverage at our accommodations, so it is clear that we need more to visit our beautiful country. At the national meeting in April, the Labour Party decided to open up local tourist tourism contributions for municipalities to finance local community goods. It was very negatively received in April this year when we adopted it, but in a debate last week on this topic, there were some new signals from a colleague of the nutrition committee, Hofstad Helleland, when it came to the possibility of local collection of contributions to local action. Will the Right contribute to the government investigating how it could possibly be implemented, so that we can get an organisation for growth in travel life also locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2418	I think we can establish that today's policy is firm throughout this process of enlargement. Then there is no current policy. What's happening in the program processes of the different parties, we're just completely at the beginning, and there can be interesting discussions – even in our own game. But there is talk that this cut is about turning the crane back again and stopping marketing. That's not right at all. Firstly, there are still significant funds left, and secondly, marketing, and not least the way customers inform themselves, is in a completely different way. And that's what surprises me, because it seems like you're going to choose a static approach, instead of saying that it's actually the way customers use the Internet and digital solutions, and they might not be as briefing themselves through travel agencies and the old-fashioned channels. The fact that there were doubts about what worked yesterday, yesterday and ten years ago, and saying that it's the medicine for the future – well, that's not how we in the Right don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2425	In the districts, tourism is very important, and a berbebel for travel life in the districts are hotels and district hotels. These have experienced a 50 pst with today's plural. increase in VAT. The representative has previously, in his speech, been concerned with the issue of taxes on wealth, and then my question is: Has hotel owners in the districts of this government been significantly reduced in wealth taxes, or has they been greatly increased in wealth taxes with this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2430	I think it's important that we look at the whole thing. I noticed that the central party in all its communications around the budget pointed out that they lowered a good deal of fees. It's totally correct, but they're increasing a good deal of taxes, and the sum of business, whether it's a small hotel, a big business or a single man's company, is that the tax burden of the Central Party's alternative arrangement would actually increase. Then you can hit each other in the head with one charge here or the other tax there, but I think those who have the shoes on, and who get up every day and go out to create values, are most concerned about what's left at the bottom of the right column when the year is up. And there, with the arrangement of the Center Party, you're actually in the situation that you get a more challenging everyday life, a more difficult competitive situation and probably a worse bottom line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2436	When it comes to district hotels, at least it's not exactly what the representative here claims. I also did not get an answer to my question. The representative has previously been very detailed on single companies, such as Jernia and Biltema, in his articles and in the lines. When I now ask a question about a district hotel, you have to expect an answer. So I ask the representative to answer the question, as with property taxes for hotels: Has he gone up, or down sharply, with this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2441	I think it is also important to remind the representative Pollestad that this is a line exchange and not a question time. But regardless of that, I want to repeat what I said instead: I think the total burden is what's important, whether you run a big or a small enterprise. In the case of taxes on wealth as such, this government has reduced the rate. If I remember correctly, it's lowered to 0.85 pst. I personally and right are not satisfied with it, and believe it should go on down. The bottom subtraction has also been increased. But for the individual hotel I do not have the details today so I can answer the specific question, but I will be very happy to be able to answer the representative at the next crossroads, when I have those details.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2448	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2453	This year's budget is a moderate budget. The reason for this is that the Norwegian economy is doing well, and new jobs are being created across the country. Four out of five jobs are established in the private sector. Half of all private sector employees work in a small or medium-sized enterprise. Half a million Northmen dream of starting for themselves. Unfortunately, sometimes it may seem that the public is allowing sports to make life as difficult as possible for those who want to create their own job. In Dagbladet on November 23, this year, we were able to read about the founder behind Oslo Street Food. He described to the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Digitalisation the jungle of forms and regulations he has to navigate in order to run the food market at Youngstorget here in Oslo. It can take the reception from someone each. If we, magnificence and government, really want to encourage people to start and run their own business, we have to do something about bureaucracy and form jungle. The government has understood this, and the new strategy for SMEs is a good start. We are on the initiative of the Minister of Industry. Storting representatives should be the ombudsmen of the people. As a member of the Business Committee, I want to be the ombudsman for those who want to start up, run, and who work in a small or medium-sized enterprise. One of the problems faced by many start-ups is a lack of capital. Adequate access to capital in the various stages of development of start-up enterprises is crucial for growth. Small businesses that want to expand need to attract skills, but often lose in the fight with larger companies that have the opportunity to pay more for their skills. Small enterprises may use options to compensate for lower wages and salaries. The option scheme introduced by the government for small enterprises is a step in the right direction, but it needs to be further expanded to include more companies in the growth phase. In the 2020 budget, the government proposes to extend the option regime to companies with a maximum of 12 employees and increase the option benefit per employee from DKK 500000 to SEK 1 million. kr. This is good. However, I believe that the government should consider how to adjust the option regime in order to make it even more applicable to crop holdings. It will make more money in the long term in the form of increased tax revenue. I look forward to working with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry to make the option system even better. The Color Line case clearly showed that the Advance Party is the seafarer's party, even though some tried to draw it into doubt. The net pay scheme is another example of this government being on the part of seafarers. Under this government, the scheme has been strengthened, extended and regulated. In 2019, the scheme is approximately 1.8 billion. kr. This has led to a net increase in the number of seafarers covered by the subsidy scheme from 2017 to 2018, despite challenging times for industry. At the same time, it is a record ship flying the flag of Norway. I note that the opposition has already concluded that Norwegian pay and working conditions are to be imposed on Norwegian pedestal and Norwegian waters. I understand that the intention is good. The opposition has the best interests of Norwegian seafarers. However, we need to carefully assess whether Norwegian pay and work conditions will be favourable in the longer term. The Progress Party is and has always been on the side of the seafarers and is concerned that action should work to the best of the seafarers. It will also be our position as to whether we should have Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base, or not. We are committed to taking action that works, and have therefore not taken a decision as to whether it is actually the best solution for Norwegian seafarers. For example, it will. is not a good solution if the result is an increase in costs which in the longer term will lead to a reduction in the profitability of the companies and lost jobs. We must not get hurt in order to weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian maritime industry for a short-term gain. The study on the possibilities for Norwegian pay and working conditions was completed in May of this year and then sent to the hearing. The issue of pay and working conditions shall be addressed in the maritime growth message presented next autumn. The Progress Party will follow up on this matter, but we will not draw conclusions until we see the overall impact of this action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2485	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2490	I can point out to the representative that in the case of Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters, in the case of Norwegian seafarers, it is more than the intention that is good, because there is also the will among the three parties that have promoted the proposal. We intend to actually implement what two reports show that it is fully feasible to implement. My question is really very simple: will the Progress Party help, assist or participate in the proposal that has been put forward, where a request for a party-based selection to obtain the conditions necessary to obtain Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters, when the government promotes a roll-call notification about the maritime?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2497	The party of progress is and has always been the party of the seafarers. We work for the sailors' well and well. The Progress Party has also been working and has had an impact on an investigation into the consequences of demanding Norwegian pay and working conditions. We haven't concluded yet, just as the Workers' Party seems to have done in this matter, but we're going to make sure that we're still on the side of the seafarers when we conclude in the paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2502	It's going to be interesting to see if the Progress Party is a talk party, which just talks and keeps people in good words, or whether they're actually a party that's going to do something for ordinary people. Now we heard about the seafarers. Another theme that has taken place during the harvest is the fur farmers. We have heard the agricultural policy figure of the Progress Party use quite strong words about what has been presented, that it is unworthy of the fur farmers, etc. He also said it very clearly in the debate which was held in June that the Progress Party lost when it came to the prohibition of the law, there was the Left who used to, but he assured them that they would get into a good system. He said that they have at the same time been clear that they will follow up the work on the preparation of the regulation, so that it becomes in line with the intentions of the government parties. Then my question is: is the system that now includes compensation to the fur farmers, in line with the views of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2511	My main field is fishing, so I'm on a little deep water when we talk about fur, but I'll answer on behalf of the Progress Party. We've fought for the fur animals. We have wanted to have further operations for the fur farmers, but we lost that matter in government. There is one thing that we had to negotiate away. We've also followed this compensation system, and we've been very, very dissatisfied. We're not quite in the goal yet, we're not quite satisfied yet, but at least we've fought for the best for the fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2516	I'll follow up the previous line a little bit. It applies to fur animals. Two agriculture ministers from the Progress Party, both Dale and Hoksrud, have said that no one should lose on the winding-up decision. Morten Ørsal Johansen of the Progress Party has been quite clear on the same subject, but we can also see in the press that the Minister of Agriculture and her Secretary of State are fighting for the best possible order. It is quite obvious who they are fighting against – they are warring against finance ministers and party leaders in the Progress Party, Siv Jensen. Then my question is, when the Progress Party has so many standings in this matter: Does the representative think that the offer made to the fur farmers is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2523	Now I don't know what kind of wars are going on inside government negotiations, and what kind of wars the Minister of Agriculture has with regard to the compensation system. What has been our stand on this matter is to fight from Stortinget against the government to get the best possible compensation scheme for the fur farmers. We have significantly improved it in the process, and we are still working to minimise the damage to fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2529	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2534	The starting point for SV's work on the state budget is that Norway is facing a huge challenge that we need to address now. We've immersed our work on this for green, new deal, and it's made up of three elements. Firstly, we have to cut the national greenhouse gas emissions by 60 pst. by 2030. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of new jobs need to be created in the future-oriented industries. Finally, we want to do this while reducing differences and strengthening well-being. Reflecting on our policies is the government's course. They have just delivered a government budget where they admit that they will not now have Norway’s commitments in 2020. It's all in blue if you want 2021, 2022, 2023, etc. until 2030. The government has absolutely no plan for how to get ashore with Norway's share of greenhouse gas emissions. The government doesn't seem to be particularly interested in implementing it either. While there is no effort to reduce emissions, we see that there is no green shift in business. Earlier this year, we saw among others: figures from the SSB showing a certain increase in investment in industry, but it increased only in the petroleum industry. For industry, it was either a decline or a standstill. So there's no green shift in the Norwegian economy. This occurs as the use of oil money increases. We are becoming increasingly dependent on revenues from the petroleum industry and the level of investment there, and no new industry is being built to take over these industries. Then it's just to say that by 2040 and at least by 2050 we're going to be carbon neutral. Then there will be no emissions in this society. The government doesn't seem to have any idea how this is going to happen, and it's on the wrong side of history. They have a policy that favours pollution, favours ownership speculation rather than investment in new industries, and favours finance rather than investment in new industries. In SV's alternative budget, we deliver a package of 11.4 billion. kr to be allocated to Norwegian economy conversion. It is for both environmentally friendly transport, business conversion, climate adaptation and nature protection. It includes, inter alia: a commitment to research. Where the government has a reduced investment in research in dollars and dollars from last year to this year, we have an increase. We have a commitment to the environmental technology system – which is underfunded, there are far more qualified seekers there than there are funds – of 700 million. kr. We capitalize on what the government calls Nysnø, but which is currently a snowflake to count. We're raising it by 1.1 billion. SEK, including 385 million. kr in risk capital. We have a reinforcement of Enova by 1.5 billion. kr, and we also strengthen the depreciation scheme for the purchase of new machines in industry by 2 billion. kr. That's the new money. At the same time, we use the systems we have, and we turn them around. Either it's Norway's Research Council or Innovation Norway, we'll wind up the investment in oil exploration that only intends to extend the oil age, and turn these funds over to another type of project. The same applies to Innovation Norway. Why should public actors finance actions that undermine the state and society's work on the green shift? We're going to turn this kind of scheme into where it needs to be. Then we make demands, whether it's for the conditioning system or the supply ship, aquaculture, or it's public procurement. We're looking at this as a tool for change. This is also a good business policy, because if an industry is to remain in the future, it must be as environmentally friendly as possible. And if Norway takes positions in these areas, looks at the possibilities in the maritime sector, looks at the possibilities in the bio-industry, the use of the large biological resources we have as a society, lies in the future for Norway there. I'm dealing with the suggestions SV is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2555	The representative of Torgeir Knag County has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2562	A short question to SV, after listing all the positive measures: why would SV make it less profitable to invest in the development of renewable energy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2567	I don't think SV does. If so, can the representative elaborate on what he is doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2572	SV increases company tax. It hits all power plants, small and large, wind like water. At the same time, it has been common practice to adjust the rent tax on large power plants so that the total tax rate is not increased. In the document to the SV, they state that the rent tax should not be changed, i.e. that the total tax rate should be increased for all power-producing units. It'll probably mean a few hundred million less to the municipalities and a few hundred million dollars less to bet on renewable energy, after checking some typical examples. Then it might be a good thing to ask, because there is a little bit of confusion in this: what is the total tax rate for large power plants with SV's alternative budget, including both the increase in ordinary corporate tax and the rent tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2577	What I assume Nilsen referred to is the SV's position in the power tax selection. This is not a field that lies within this committee, but we have been beyond the theme before. The main point is that it is important to ensure that municipalities are left with significant revenues from power, precisely to create an incentive to establish new renewable energy. This is a discussion that is currently well received at a NOO level, but that will enter the Storing afterwards. The SV line is that we don't want a renewable energy tax system that makes it less profitable to invest, but makes it more profitable to invest and not least for municipalities to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2582	In its budget, SV increases taxes and levies by 22.8 billion each year. kr. It means, in practice, that the party wants to reverse the fiscal cuts the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister has carried out since 2013. SV will make it more expensive to fly, SV will make it more expensive to drive a fossil car – SV will at all, for the most part, make it more expensive to live and live in the country. Does SV want to depopulate the districts of the country, and then perhaps especially Troms and Finnmark, the states from which we come, the representative County and I? And is this a signal of red-green collection, which SV has been out with, that this is the policy that will be pursued if there is a change of government at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2589	Thank you for your question. SV's tax line is that we want to reduce the tax on work, and then we want to increase the tax on wealth and increase the tax on pollution. We have done calculations for our budget – what is the impact for ordinary people in Finnmark and Oslo? We've looked at all of the different parameters there. With SV's tax arrangements, people – ordinary people – will come out better than with the government's arrangement, because the government has invested so enormously on those who are on the big fortunes, the ones who are on the big capital. It's those who have our government's stakes. SV wants to increase the taxation of both wealth, capital and pollution, but then we make sure to compensate it by reducing the tax burden on work and on ordinary people. We mean it's both forward-looking and – not least – for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2596	A few months ago, I had an interesting experience when I attended the Coastal and Port Conference in Honningsvåg. It was very interesting to be there, a small coastal community that is totally dependent on the EEA Agreement, not primarily because of the content of the agreement itself, but precisely because of an important exception, namely that the management of our fishing resources was not part of the EU system. The representative of Knag Fylkesnes is also among those who share the view of the Christian People’s Party that there should still be an active import protection for Norwegian agriculture – once again a very important derogation from the provisions of the EU internal market. Then we're going into a 2021 campaign. SV requires renegotiation of the EEA Agreement. What will the representative of Knag Fylkesnes say when he comes to Honningsvåg, where SV made a fall-back election, and he must explain to his constituents there that the European policy that SV stands for will be a blow to business in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2603	I don't think I understood that connection there, because SV's policy is really in favour of coastal communities like Honningsvåg, both in device and in content. Back to the port conference: In this area, the government has cut massive bets on ports – at fishing ports, on ferries, etc. – for a longer time, which is probably the starting point for too much of the irritation at these conferences. When it comes to the fisheries policy, which we will probably have plenty of time to talk about afterwards, we have a policy that will really lead the fish to come back to the communities that are in the vicinity of the big fish resources, such as Honningsvåg. When it comes to the EEA Agreement, we in SV were very pleased that one could at least keep the fish out of the EEA Agreement. It has been very, very important. But that our option is to integrate the fish into an agreement at some point in time, has never been true. We want to step down and develop the operating space in the EEA, and, of course, also terminate our connection in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2613	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2618	A strong, diverse and competitive business is essential in order to maintain a good level of well-being in the future. High welfare is absolutely essential for people's freedom to live free and independent lives. This is important for people to have the freedom to choose their own everyday life and future. The left is concerned with Norway leading the global transition to green growth and the low-emission economy. We will facilitate the development of solutions that are required in the green economy by the Norwegian business community. This will give Norway a simpler and better everyday life and create new good jobs and businesses that we have promised in the future. To ensure competitiveness and to contribute to the creation of new industries, access to capital for start-up enterprises is crucial. For many enterprises, capital access is demanding. The investor plays an important role in increasing value creation through their offering risk capital to internationally oriented competitive companies. Thus, the investor plays an important role in the development of new businesses. Many start-ups seem to be struggling to succeed in further development and growth in Norway, and options can in many cases address the lack of necessary capital and help businesses grow in a start-up phase. We always focus on new businesses and on small and medium-sized enterprises. I am pleased that options are extended to companies with a maximum of 12 employees, and that the benefit per employee increases to 1 million. kr. We know that this is not enough, but there are important steps on the way. We're going to work to make even better arrangements in the future. The government is also adding increased climate investments to this budget, and I am pleased that it is proposing to add 700 million. fresh krone for Nysnø – climate investments in 2020. This almost doubles the capital of the company. Norway has strong housing and labour markets in both cities and districts. This gives people the freedom to work and live where they want to. A strong, green, forward-looking business provides good communities where people can thrive, and districts go reasonably well, even though some want to give a different impression. The economy is crucial for living communities, and the maritime food industry is one of the most important industries contributing to this. This day, we passed 100 billion. kr in exports in the seafood industry, and we can do more. This is quite adventurous. It is incredibly inspiring to travel along the coast and meet both coastal fishermen and people in the farming industry and hear their plans and contribute from the Storting to solving their challenges. In this year's budget, I am pleased that the government parties have decided to maintain a 14 million lead grant. to the fisheries in the budgetary procedure. It is important to contribute to the transport of raw materials in areas with more widespread localisation of the reception of the fishing fleet. In short and hectic seasons houses welfare stations the fishermen. These are important meeting places for the fishing industry and the local population. Welfare stations are operated to a large extent through local initiatives with a support of 2.5 million. kr, with which we at Stortinget secure these meeting places, which are important for individuals, but also for communities along the coast. Both leadership grants and welfare stations are important for keeping lights in the houses along the coast. In Norway, we are so lucky that we have large sea areas with fish resources that provide the potential for value creation that is far more sustainable than the petroleum revenues. It is the responsibility of the Community to manage marine resources within a responsible and sustainable framework. We need to keep our seas clean for plastic and provide our fish with sustainable feed. For the Left, it is important that the resource take-off is to be determined by public authorities and that all fishing activity is to be carried out in such a way that it does not contribute to the over-taxation of fish stocks. At the same time, we need to facilitate the further development of the industry in order to maximise the value of marine resources. Fisheries policy shall ensure sustainability and value creation throughout the value chain and attractive and competitive jobs in local communities dependent on fish. Active agriculture across the country is one of the most important means of ensuring safe food production, biodiversity and the long-term and sustainable management of our land. Low levels of antibiotics and relatively good animal welfare give Norway a competitive advantage in meeting agricultural products from other countries. I believe that we need to exploit this. The left is an internationally oriented party and it is right for us to think of exports of agricultural products far more than we do today. Unutilised values are present in exports of Norwegian agricultural products. Increased exports of agricultural products are also important in order to maintain the number of farms around Norway. Agriculture across the country is important for both biodiversity and climate. The left considers that, like other industries, agriculture must contribute to reducing emissions. That is why I was also very pleased that we got the initiative that we are doing at the Mæra agricultural school. It is important for the freedom of individuals that people have the opportunity to have power over their own lives. That is why it is important that we also fight for small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is of great value that society's value and power spread as much as possible into more hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2646	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2651	One of the great victories to the Left in government negotiations was about fur animals. The working party has agreed to the closure of the industry, but in the case of subsequent handling, we have had a deep disagreement. This has created a great deal of commitment, for good reason, not least in the representative's home region, the Trøndelag. On 24 October we read that the representative had been visiting a pet farm. There you could also read that the representative says that those who drive fur animals must be harmless when they finish the industry. The representative now talked about how he got inspired when he traveled around. I wish he also got inspired by people who now have a very difficult time. The question is, what does the representative say, and can he guarantee that anyone who deals with fur animals will be harmless?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2658	I remember quite well that trip in the town of Markabygda in the city of Levanger. It was not only dialogue all the time, but I also got their clear messages. It was a farm that had a shared production, both fur animals and to a large extent mammac production. One of the questions that was asked, and which I have also followed up, was that they thought it was extremely problematic to continue with shared production if they did not have the opportunity to make money outside. As stated in the regulation, it is now possible to serve 2G within the scheme, which is so far new and for which the representative has also stood on quite significant terms. The left has always been crystal clear, our position is inspired by animal welfare. We've been on that all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2663	What will remain after the Left's participation in the government is enough that one has reduced a profitable export industry and left the bill. It is quite clear that these promises of becoming economically harmless have not been followed up, and now there are letters from the Council of State that make it clear that the compensation they receive will be taxable. Does the representative think that it is right that one should first subcompensate, and then the state should come and take again a significant part in the form of taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2668	I hear what the representative Pollestad says. Work after the adoption of the Decision has seen a significant increase in compensation to the fur animal industry. On the ‘roughly’ 180 uses there will also be an individual treatment on a case-by-case basis. This was last pointed out in the nations today, as far as I read. I believe that if you see this in the light of the Swedish model, which has also dissolved the fur animal family, the Norwegian model will stand out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2673	It is true that from what was being heard, to the final regulation that has been laid down, there have been some improvements. Both I and the Minister in the field are from Rogaland, an area with a relatively large amount of mining production, while the representative is from Trondelag, who has relatively seen more reefing today. When you look at the improvements that have been made, they benefit the inconclusive manufacturers. For the reef producers, it is completely unchanged. Does the representative of Skkelstad think that this is a fair treatment of the respective miners and gill producers, which he has in his own home area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2678	The representative points out quite correctly that one has quite a number of reef producers in Trøndelag, which is also referred to in a present newspaper that is quite close to the representative Pollestad. And the representative Pollestad says here that there has been a significant improvement in what is now going to fur farmers in his own area. And then I also see what's in today's newspaper about this, that it's on the reef is a tispe supplement that's not at the level that it's on the mink. But I guess this will also be a good arrangement for those who are engaged in reefs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2683	Then I'll make my last question very simple: Is it according to the representative of Skelstad the last word said in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2688	The last word – now the regulation has expired, and I take note of that. From this point on, the first time that the representative Pollestad has probably also come along, there is a significant increase in compensation for those who operate in fur. And it is so interesting that the representative Pollestad does not mention with a single word what is in the Central Party's own budget. He chooses to look at what the government puts forward, and that's okay enough, but in the Central Party's alternative budget, I don't see any kind of compensation for the fur farmers that are now ending.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2694	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2699	Values created enable us to finance a welfare state and help Norway to continue to be a good country to live in in the future, with low unemployment and a well-developed social security network. The Christian People's Party is a centre party that draws the best from both sides of Norwegian politics and wants to actively contribute to growth and development in Norwegian business. We are responsible for a working life policy with decent and tidy pay and working conditions. We are working with our government partners on a dynamic tax policy that stimulates new growth in Norwegian businesses after years of tough transition. We use Christian democratic management responsibility when we are actively working for a green shift in business. We are in a Haugian tradition in which we promote the entrepreneur who, with hard work, creates new businesses and contributes to positive social development in his community. New of the year is that the Christian People's Party is part of the government, not a negotiating partner. We are pleased with the submitted state budget for 2020, and I would like to mention in particular some of the issues that are particularly important to us in terms of industrial policy. The Government proposes in the State budget for 2020 to strengthen efforts in green shipping with a total of 100 million. $80 million. kr is set to strengthen the existing temporary climate action to stimulate the development of climate-friendly speedboats. Municipalities may apply for support in order to require new climate-friendly solutions in fast boat offers. And then it's going to be set by 20 million. kr for work on the green fleet renewal of cargo ships. As a representative of a state where the maritime industries are strong, I am also very pleased that the government is proposing to allocate 55 million. kr for the pre-projection of the Ocean Space Centre in Trondheim. It will be the main national knowledge investment for future value creation in marine industries, with the related concept Ocean Space Laboratories, which includes the renewal of the laboratories in Trondheim and the full scale testing of installations at Ålesund, Hitra/Frøya and Trondheimsfjorden. This is a very important commitment to the further development of our maritime competence. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that a historically good agricultural agreement was reached in spring 2019, with a budget increase for the agreement period of 720 million. kr. It provides the basis for an income increase of 6,25 pst. by annual works from 2019 to 2020. In particular, the economy of cereal production and the fruit and vegetables sector is being strengthened. It is important to increase the level of self-sufficiency in Norwegian food production. This year's reindeer management agreement was also historically good. The contract period framework has been increased by 11 pst. compared with last year’s settlement. It led to some press releases that the draft budget did not carry forward appropriations to lead grants and welfare stations for fishermen. This has been important matters for the Christian People's Party for a long time, and I'm glad that through good dialogue we agreed with our government partners to grant 16.5 million. kr for these purposes. It's definitely not the biggest sums in the 2020 budget, but it's very important for many along our coast. So a few words about the CO 2 fee in the fisheries. Lower emissions from the fishing fleet are facilitated by the introduction of a full CO 2 tax from 1 January, while setting up a compensation scheme of 255 million. kr to meet this transition. Increasing the price of emissions does not mean increasing the overall burden on the fishing fleet and the government proposes to establish a compensation scheme for the fleet as a whole at the level of the CO 2 tax revenue. A budget of 255 million will be proposed for 2020. kr. The scheme is not intended to be a permanent solution for the fishing fleet and it is planned to be phased out over time. However, the Christian People's Party will stress the importance of phase-out in such a way that the industry has sufficient time to make that transition. New technologies are to be developed and implemented, and it is important that phasing-out does not take place more quickly than the intention of intentional modernisation of the fishing fleet. Finally, I would like to mention the clustering program Norwegian Innovative Clusters. In short, a number of successful industrial clusters are approaching the end of their support period. This applies, for example: NCE Maritime CleanTech and GCE Blue Maritime Cluster. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the government returns in an appropriate way with an assessment of how to ensure that the value of these clusters and cluster work can be preserved after the end of the project period. It's about caring for the values that are built up. I believe our country gets a good budget for the coming year, a budget that contributes to further growth and development in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2738	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2743	After seven fat years, there may be seven leaner. And it can happen much faster oscillations than that. We have experienced this in Norway. Last summer it was dry and a rather lean year when it came to grain. This year it's been better. But the Swedish Defence Research Institute is among those who now point out that access to food can become more uncertain in the future also for people in Norway. These include: on climate change, which makes production more uncertain and, as the Swedish Defence Research Institute also points out, food can become a strategic commodity that cannot be easily accessed. Former Minister of Agriculture Jon Georg Dale disagreed. He said that there was no point in having cereals ready, because we did not know what to store against. But the Christian People's Party was still with the red-green government on a positive decision. So I wonder, does the Reiten now agree with the Red-Green or Former Minister of Agriculture on this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2750	Let me first say that I have great respect for the Sandtrøen representative and the commitment he shows to increase preparedness in Norwegian agriculture. These are objectives that we in the Christian People's Party share with the Workers' Party. It has been this year that the budget framework has been very tight. The party is over in the Norwegian economy. It once again shows that the budget is a zero sum game in terms of tax relief. There are no net tax reliefs in the budget. In this situation, tough balances had to be made. And when the Christian People's Party in the government got through to, in an election situation, and got in place half a billion dollars to strengthen food preparedness in the third world, we see that the purpose is achieved: in a larger global context food security will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2759	Food safety is essential for people whether living in an African country, in a South American country, in an Asian country or in Norway. But the concrete proposal that the Christian People's Party voted for here was national stockpiles of cereals – that is, to strengthen the security of the people of Norway. So I now understand on the representative of Reiten that it has not been put in place in this budget because of other priorities that have been made. Does that mean, then, that it can be expected that the Christian People's Party will continue to follow up the common proposal that we then received by majority before the Christian People's Party joined the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2766	I don't want to stand here shooting at any of the things that are going to happen in connection with the 2021 budget. What I can say is that I see that it is an important matter for the Christian People's Party that we did not get through in the 2020 budget. But I can stand here and say honestly and honestly that I have very low shoulders in terms of what was presented, when I know that hundreds of millions of dollars will be used to strengthen food preparedness and agriculture in the poorest countries of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2771	When a Christian People's Party determines that the party is over, a listener shall listen. But even if you're in a situation where you're saving money, it's clear that readiness and security are the basic task of the state. The central party also shares the Christian People's Party's commitment to agricultural aid and thinks it's very important. What it might be possible to put back into practice once again, when the Christian People's Party has now turned to the question of emergency storage for cereals, is: is it not to be understood that one thinks that emergency storage for cereals is a bad idea, and that as a country we should not take up the idea? Can the representative Reiten clarify the Christian People's Party's principle of emergency storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2776	We have actually programmed the programme also for the current ageing period that we want to introduce emergency storage not only for food grain but also for cereal seed. So it's like we've gone into government. We have come into a situation where we are no longer responsible for 3 billion. kr – 4 br. In a budgetary settlement, however, we must take responsibility for an overall state budget. In a situation with a very tight budget framework, we did not get an impact during the year's budgetary procedure. But as this country is this year, we have, as I said, peace that it has become as it has become. Then, as I said, I will not give any leads for what is to come in later years' budgets. I'm just saying that it's still in our program.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2785	A number of evaluations have been carried out on this issue in which one assesses the risk. Some of the things that I think of as the main problem with these are that they're assuming, as a plan statement, that trade will go on no matter what happens. Does the representative, Mr Reiten, see that it may be prudent for a plan to be prepared from the perspective and scope that trade too may break down for longer or shorter periods?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2790	Yes, of course you do. What the ministry's investigations have been conducted, also says, is that such a complete breakdown in the world's trade relations is something very dramatic that will arise first in the context of crises and wars, and that it will in any case be difficult to plan for such a situation when we are not there. Then it is not just in the supply of grain that it will fail, then the global trading system will simply stop. Then we're into issues and challenges that we can't take full account of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2802	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2807	The most important thing about this budget, perhaps, is that it is only mentioned in the acknowledgments, and it is that this budget does not spend too much money. Why is that important? Yes, because if we spend too much money, the krone price is running easily – now it is mysteriously low, some economists say – and it is a direct threat to Norwegian export-oriented jobs. That also means that when you have to have a moderate budget, a responsible budget, that is not money for everything. So, of course, it's the opposition's job to criticize all that's not money for it, but that's all, the most important thing for Norwegian private business. Nevertheless, within the framework that is clear, we have to say that we are in a privileged situation in Norway – we have found room for important and large appropriations. We continue to have a high level of funding for industrial research and innovation – about 9 billion. kr, a sharp increase since this majority came in. In concrete terms, the Research Council is given additional resources to strengthen its own R & D projects, and we are strengthening the basic allocation of technical and industrial institutes. It's important. In addition, we are committed to Innovation Norway's Innovation Loan Facility. It is a good and effective way to ensure that more entrepreneurs and more high-growth businesses get some drag help. It also mobilises more private capital than pure grants. Simplification continues. We have a goal of simplifying by 10 billion. kr for the period 2017-2021. It will reduce the time and cost of reporting to the public by enterprises, and it will also give more time to operate the store. In 2020, we will continue, inter alia: the work of reviewing and developing association legislation, in order to give business a clear and appropriate regulatory framework. It is also an important theme of the own strategy for SMEs, which we presented earlier this year. There are four important ambitions: a simpler everyday life for businesses, better access to customers, increased innovation capacity and good enough access to skills and capital, but targeting small and medium-sized enterprises, which in many ways are the backbone of Business Norway, and which – if you believe in NHO figures – are more important than the larger cities you come from. Another important investment is on the groceries market and the competitive situation there. It is not a large amount, but it is important that the Competition Authority, in the context of the revised budget, has increased the budgetary framework to strengthen the enforcement of today’s competition law in the daily goods sector – which is probably the result of having joined the media. This effort was continued and provides a good starting point for the supervisory work. In addition, there is a huge amount of expenditure in relation to everything that costs money and has to be done, but no politician would have chosen to spend money on first, if you could choose from a menu, among other things. 638 million. to continue to ensure the proper management of nuclear waste and installations. It's huge sums, and this is going to be much, much more expensive in the future, but it has to be done. We continue to invest in marine and technology development related to the maritime industries, not least with good research infrastructure and good testing facilities and 55 million. kr for the pre-projection of Ocean Space Laboratories. The space effort will also continue, with a strong commitment to furthering the voluntary programmes of ESA. In addition, we contribute to the green shift, which is taking place in private Norwegian business. Those who claim that private Norwegian business is not engaged in or engaged in the green shift may not have visited many companies. One of the things we're doing is helping to increase investment capital by 700 million in Nysnø climate investment. SEK in equity of the company’s investments in 2020. We have also proposed a new mandate for Investinor. It is entirely in line with the recommendations of the Capital Access Committee, which is that we should have more fund-in-fund investment, first and foremost. They are also given capital, and Investinor will have an important and central role in the instrumentation in Norway in the future. Then there is a more practical question of whether to adjust, close immediately or close the direct investment mandate over time. I have noticed that the majority – it's about the government parties, we talk a little bit – we don't think we should make any new changes to the direct investment mandate now, until we look at the rest of the review. Of course, I'll follow up on that. Finally, I would like to mention that although it is common to deal with the ownership notification and the power of sale in connection with it, I consider it entirely unproblematic that it is already to be stated that the state's ownership of Telenor is retained.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2840	I intend to ask some questions to the Minister of Industry that he was not in his post. He mentioned what he thought was very good in the budget, and it is understandable, but there are also things that at least for Norwegian business are perceived as very demanding and very little good. One of the things I mentioned in my main post, and it concerns that the government is proposing to wind up the exemption for the CO 2 tax for a number of industrial companies. They justify this with the EEA Agreement, which I have understood there are doubts about. But I took up the matter and mentioned Yara's ammonia production on the island of Herea, which could pay as much as 25 million. NOK more in CO 2 tax. The Minister of Economic Affairs was challenged by Telemarksavisa, and he replied, ‘I am not concerned about closures because of precisely this change.’ Not exactly this change? Are there other changes planned by the government and for which there is reason to be more concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2853	The representative Aasland and I both come from Grenland and know Yara and their work pretty well, and it's no secret that they, for example. over a long period of time, considerable gas-related costs have been incurred. We both remember that from the discussion on, among other things. gas to Grenland. So there's a bunch of things that make Yara get higher costs. So to the specific charge: that the CO 2 tax is increasing, there is no news, there is a consensus on the Stortinget. Nevertheless, this gives an unfortunate outcome, because you get so-called double regulation. At least some of the enterprises subject to allowances are also affected. Therefore, I registered with – I can say – a certain joy that the members of the Finance Committee from the government parties have also said that this should be looked at by the Ministry of Finance a little bit more closely, and also how this harmonizes with the EEA legislation. So finally, the Labour Party never says anything about what is their alternative. As far as I can read, the Workers' Party's option is that they should – through a so-called agreement – pay full CO 2 tax, also for Yara.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2868	I can clear it up right away. If Yara had entered into an agreement, as proposed by the Workers' Party, it would not have meant that a person would pay a full fee, but reduced the fee, such as Yara would have to pay, because they are already in the quota sector, and it is quite unnatural that they would have to pay double regulation, or double charge, on this. It is surprising that a Minister of Industry from the Right in fact does not in any way see any cause for concern as long as there are double accounting and double charges, or double payments, for this as Yara is in here. ‘This is hopeless climate policy and miserable industrial policy’, as Stein Lier-Hansen said, but there is no doubt that the cost of gas increases as long as an uncritical charge is applied. And then my question to the Minister of Industry is very specific: Does the Minister of Industry think there is no reason for concern when one increases the cost overnight by $25 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2875	This is just a repetition of my previous answer, because it was about the same question, or a line. I take very seriously everything that private Norwegian business comes and tells us. That's why I also think it was wise for the government parties to have a majority comment saying that this is a problem you've noticed, among other things. Because the principle of the Storting is that there is no basic desire to regulate both the CO 2 tax and the quotas. But then I have to go back to what the representative replied about his own alternative. As far as I understand it, he says that – with the agreement of the Workers' Party – the minimum EU requirement is 30 kroner. If you had a full CO 2 tax, it would be 500 kroner. Then one has to ask himself the question: when the Workers' Party is so high and dark in this matter, does it sound as if you are really just going through an agreement to the exact same level as the government is proposing in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2890	Now I felt that it was I who was asked questions about this. There is no doubt that, as the Workers' Party has proposed, the agreements we want to conclude, that is, that they should not remove the exemption, because the exemption can be made clear. However, this is a classic example of poor industrial and industrial policies being pursued, and it also affects many of the other enterprises that are not in a quota-based sector but are in a situation where, for example, they are in a position to do so. is private ownership to be maintained, and where perhaps the CO 2 tax increases much more than this government has managed to reduce, for example. taxes on wealth. But I note that the Minister of Industry may think it is a good arrangement that the government has proposed. To get a clear answer: Does the Minister of Industry think it is right to impose this CO 2 tax on these companies and remove the exemption for those in this portfolio who have been charged this overnight, they will all pay it from 1 January 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2905	There are two answers to that. The first answer is that of course the government is behind its own budget. But the second thing is: now I don't remember the Prime Minister's quotations of speech, I have to say, even though she is my boss, but the Prime Minister has been very busy clarifying that unlike previous governments – no one mentioned, no one forgot – it shouldn't be the case in this majority government that you don't take any discussions after things have come to the Stortinget. In fact, it's also the law for a majority government to have discussions on the Storting. It's allowed for our four parties to engage, meet people and also make adjustments in the budget, as you've done – it's moved to 200 million. kr. I then find that the four government parties have made a note in the financial position where this comes about. Which result that will give, of course, is impossible to say, but I look forward to hearing more from, among other things. Yara on what concrete challenges they will face. Now, in the media, Yara hasn't confirmed the figure of $25 million. NOK, but I have also heard it used.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2912	There's something very bad about the government of Solberg, and that's that every time you put in a budget, it's a tax bomb that's in there. If it frames the brewing industry, the chocolate industry, the taxi industry or the aviation industry, it varies slightly from year to year, but there is always a tax bomb on naps. In Rogaland we have a porcelain producer, and that's Figgjo AS. I thought it was brilliant that a company could produce in Norway in such a tough market. In the budget this year, it was those who lost. They received a CO 2 tax on the gas they use in industrial production – a small million kroner in fees. Does the Council of State mean that it is good enterprise policy to pursue this tax bingo?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2925	I have replied to the specific matter. It's a proceeds of about 60 million. kr. Figjo is also a very nice company. I've met them, and they're good and good. I believe that the sum of government's policies is good business policy. Because we know that we are going through a green shift, it is also good business policy to increase CO 2 taxes – not because it does not have conversion costs for Norwegian business in general, but because it is important that Norwegian business is part of the green shift in order to make money and provide jobs in the future. Specifically, on this closure of the natural gas tax exemption, there are some EEA issues here – the EU has a minimum of 30 kroner, to which we have committed ourselves, which must be included in the CO 2 tax. It is also the case, as I pointed out earlier, that the Committee on Finance has said that they want the Ministry of Finance, which is constitutionally responsible, to look at this. I think it's wise and smart that you look at it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2940	I think it is quite perceptive that a majority government should present a budget, and then the Committee on Finance should ask for a review. I would like to say that it is a very good idea to sort out proper arrangements and check out the EEA sustainability of them before they present them to the Stortinget – so that it becomes as careful for the business as they need. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that in the future it will be a good idea to sort out properly and to have a hearing and to check out the EEA's conformity with new taxes before submitting them to the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2947	This proposal has, of course, been thoroughly investigated. When I say EEA law, it is not linked to the fact that one should not have had that increase – there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that a CO 2 tax should be introduced in the areas where it is necessary and polluting – it is linked to whether one should, for example, exclude one. enterprises that are also part of the sector subject to allowances. Here, as is also quite clear in the proposal, there are some companies that are part of the marketable sector and are initially given an additional charge because they have natural gas. For some, this is very small, while for other individual companies there may be more money, which is also mentioned in the case. I just have to shoot in one more thing because this is all a line exchange and not just a round of questions: there was also something predictable with the center party before. It was that the Center Party was a party for Norwegian ownership. I look forward to a further debate on why the Senter party has left that line in its alternative budget and is now going to increase the taxation of Norwegian owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2957	The council said there's a green shift in Norway, and that's it, but to a very small extent. What we see of green shifts in Norway, in the bounded extent, does not happen because of, but in spite of the work of this government. Let's talk concretely: Ulefos Jernwerk produces kumlok based on hydropower. They see that they are now out of competition by actors that produce far higher emissions abroad and are commissioned by Norway – public actors – through the Purchasing Regulation. Or, for example, Celsa, the only steel producer we have in Norway, which produces steel with half of the emissions produced by European manufacturers, sees that they are increasingly out of competition because one uses public purchases only for price reasons. It's not environmentally friendly. Why won't the government set the same requirements for purchases as for manufacturing for industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2966	Now I'm not quite sure if I understood the question. The size has just addressed a major notification of just public acquisitions. Perhaps the majority of this was about how we're going to use the acquisition regime for innovation and also for, for example, for innovation. climate-friendly and environmentally friendly procurement. It has been discussed how to formulate this in the legislation in the most practical way possible, something the representative and I have had a line exchange about before. I disagree with the SV's way of doing this, but there is no secret, rather the contrary, that the government wants more green and innovative purchases. We also want the environment to be focused where relevant. It's probably a lot to do about this, not least by building skills at the purchasing stages, even in the municipalities. Otherwise, Ulefos is a super company. I've been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2973	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e2978	My good partisan, now Vice-President of the Vågan, Lena Hamnes, has said so well: Fish are values, power and money. Our community is naked without fish. That's absolutely right. We have some really great resources. It's growth, it's optimism, it's great will to create, and it's pride along the coast. Over time, we have provided sustainable management of our rich resources. It gives predictability, and the community has controlled the resources. We're supposed to be proud of that. But this isn't something that comes of itself. We are now in a time when good money is made on the fish, be it wild fish or farmed fish. That is good, but there are also many reasons for concern in the future. More and more resources are falling on fewer hands. It is expensive and demanding to enter the industry. Quotas are being sold expensively, and individuals are getting richer and richer. The coast deserves to bet, to be listened to. It deserves predictability. This right-hand government isn't betting on the coast. You talk a lot, but I guess little is as annoying as talking without action. A small amount of action in crowns and ears, but of great importance to coastal communities and to ensure the necessary raw materials for industry, is a small contribution that helps us to receive fish across the coast, not just in large places. It is the leadership grant, which the Minister of Fisheries and the Prime Minister have spent the whole autumn defending that one should cut out. On the same day that the Minister of Fisheries insisted that it was wise for the sales teams to spend money on the management grant rather than control, the government colleagues at Stortinget cheered, because they had saved it. They've been cheering for it today, too. It would have been absolutely brilliant if it were true. What you've been cheering for is that you cut half the grant, and that you're just going to spend a little longer on introducing a new scheme. It should be noted that the introduction of a new scheme should take place over time. So it's just a slight postponement. The working party will, over and over again, fight for us to receive along the whole coast, because the government will come again, I'm sure, to try to put them down. One of the main objectives of the Workers' Party's fisheries policy is to create coastal communities, to contribute to jobs and to profitable industry. Access to raw materials is then needed, and all measures contributing to it need to be considered. If we are to get people to want to work in the industry and secure Norway's reputation, we must have orderly conditions at sea and on land. But looking up illegalities, both on fleets and on land, testifies that what is happening in several cases is simply a drain of community resources. We see it in the royal crab thing. We see that there are cowboy states in parts of tourist fishing. We see it when workers are exploited grossly, on social dumping and what is worse. On 15 October 2018, Nesvik, a little humorous, said that those who cheat will get 120 kilos and 194 cm afterwards 24 hours a day. The question is: what does the Minister for Fisheries do? What does the government do, except to sleep an hour? It's now 2019. It is proposed to cut down on the permitting regime for the fisheries industry. It's special and I would say unknowingly when you justify the change because you get more rent. So it's a desired development. It is a major challenge that the fishing industry, in particular the whitefish industry, is often exposed to decommissioning due to a lack of raw material. It is therefore necessary to have legislation to keep employees and not to lose important competences. That's how things are out of control. Our common fishing resources are being the subject of cowboy activities and illegalities. It affects the many who legally operate, both at sea and on land, but it also affects our reputation as a seamate. In this case, grabbing must be done quickly. We need more jobs, full-year jobs along the coast, more value creation, living coastal communities – yes, light in the houses, as we use to say, and that's right. We have the resources right outside the house door forever if we manage them properly. Then we need action – and we'd like to do it right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3001	What are we going to live on? That is the question that should be central to any business policy and to every business policy. Nevertheless, the policy in the last two years has struggled to hijack the industry itself. Oil and gas, trawling, windmills to land, sometimes also offshore windmills, mining, tourism and aquaculture are some of those that have been on the death list of some. To emphasize that the wit is equally distributed, we also discussed fur animals in extenso here today. It is significantly easier to find opinions and suggestions from politicians and others about what we should not live on from than what we should live on. It's almost as if you think the oil revenue will be there, even if the oil sector is dropped. In the Western world, this seems to be a bizarre and theoretical exercise which, unfortunately, is very real. The common denominator of the industries or jobs you point to as desirable is that they are green – that is good – but also that they are unprofitable and heavily subsidised. First of all, I'm for. The last can give us nothing but less well-being. When the policy becomes a competition to leave the economy, it is time to call for caution. It's time to get back the pride of what we produce, and we need to produce more. We need profitable businesses that contribute tax revenue. Otherwise, the policy of the Workers' Party in the field of industry is becoming: increasing tax burdens on value-creating businesses and owners, which reduce the ability of profitable investments and which are used to distribute to so-called bets. That's bets: it's not like you get what you pay back. In this budget, the Labour Party takes in around six–seven times more from business and owners than they distribute into bets. The bets also require partiality. First, a six-double price is paid and then one more payment is required to get the funds out. It's not the construction of conversion, it's an undermining. As for the leadership grant, which has been commented on by several, I just want to say that we have discussed it in the knowledge and the broad, but the reality is that the tax increases proposed for the industry, with an increase of 1 pst. to general income, which has been pointed out by several batches — not all but several of them — has a far greater impact on the profitability of these industries than the leading grant, if any, would have. No one was ever there to remove the lead grant. It was going to be solved in another way. Then we're talking about a magnitude of hundreds of millions against some twenty million. But despite these discussions, it's going well, especially at sea. The fisheries and aquaculture sector recorded exports this year. 100 B.C.E. kr has been reached for the first time before the end of the year. A policy that gives you a low dollar rate gives you half of the profit. The rest is hard work – despite an algal crisis in Northern Ireland that destroyed production and large potential export revenues. But a fantastic effort has been a great mountain. Overall, this sector accounts for half of the growth in what in this case is called somewhat misleading mainland exports. It increased by 100 billion. kr in the last six years against an increase of 7 billion. The six years before that. Three-quarters of this export accounts for aquaculture. People will bet because in recent years the state budget has given optimism, employment and value creation. The switch is in progress, and it's going well. We're smaller, no more dependent on the oil now. People feel better now than they did six years ago. At a time of responsible economic policy and strong development of business-promoting infrastructure, there are people who will risk all of this. Marine and other industries do not need investigations into the alternative to the EEA Agreement; they need us to conclude the EEA Agreement. Easily informed statements that we always have our fish underestimate the full impact of cancelling an agreement that guarantees us the veterinary agreement, which means that the fish must not stand and wait for the limit, in trailers, and that prevents us from losing time, money and quality of the products we have while they are in line, and automatic product approval that means that we do not need to obtain additional approval for our products – in short, that our seafood swims freely. The 1973 Free Trade Agreement dealt with fish in the same way and with the same obstacles as agricultural products. That's not an option we want to go back to. That's what the representative Barth Eide called offensive and defensive interests, and I would say it's about what we're going to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3018	A few days ago, I had the pleasure of awarding this year's young farmer to Øystein Aasen from Tolga Municipality. Øystein competed with 986 other young farmers who were nominees. He thought completely and prospectively, but was also concerned about caring for old agricultural traditions. These 987 are great representatives of agriculture and give hope for the future. Agriculture is a local industry. We have agriculture all over the country. District Norway is part of our community and our identity. The government's agricultural policy is an industrial policy. The Norwegian farmer is self-employed. In the field of industrial policy, the industrial agreements are the most important budgetary instruments. The appropriations for the reindeer management agreement increased by 10 pst., and that is more than ever before. The Contracting Parties shall give priority to actions supporting those with main reindeer activities and strengthening reindeer management, which is an organic, economic, cultural and sustainable industry. The agricultural settlement of the year is particularly conducive to cereal production and innovation in the fruit and vegetables sector. These are productions with market opportunities. In addition, the agreement of the year places particular emphasis on recruitment and competence. The business life of the future is green, smart and innovative, and it is knowledge-based. In the agricultural and food sectors, the government proposes to use a total of 685 million. kr for research and development, inter alia. with regard to climate-adapted food production and extended season for Norwegian green, berries and fruit. The Government also proposes to increase the allocation to the Veterinary Institute by 20 million. to facilitate the transfer of the Institute and its co-location with the NMBU and other research environment at Ås in 2020. I'm glad that an overall committee ends up on this. Many municipalities face challenges with the veterinary service. Therefore, the government continues the system of earmarked grants for clinical veterinary watch outside normal working hours. Food oversight has challenges in terms of management quality in its supervisory work. The external review report of KPMG will be published tomorrow. It's a report I want to follow closely, in dialogue with the Food Authority's management. We are totally dependent on having a strengthened trust in the Food Authority. Then it has been a demanding matter for everyone, but most of all for those who are involved in fur animals. I have listened to the recordings in the consultation round on new regulations, on compensation after the closure of fur animal husbandry. In working with the final regulation, I have looked at the yield of fur breeding gear. That means that a lot of mincoppers come out better. This new option for compensation is standardised, but based on profitability assessments made by NIBIO. Based on the same business-economy analyses, the same analysis has also been carried out by NIBIO against reef producers. We see that there is no or marginal profitability of an average reef breeding plant if account is taken of operating costs and own or hired labour input. No corresponding changes have been made for fox farming. However, I will follow this closely, and if it turns out that there are unreasonable results for individual manufacturers, we will look at and consider adjusting the scheme. It is also the case that we have had a milk production where, because of the loss of Jarlsberg's export support under the WTO agreement, we now go in by 200 million. kr by the country in order to contribute to the buying-in of milk quotas. This shows that the government takes responsibility for the industry even in demanding conversion periods. The world's climate is changing, and we need to do even more to combat climate change and adapt agriculture to tackle a warmer, wetter climate. I am proud that the government has therefore reached a climate agreement on reduced emissions and increased carbon uptake along with agriculture by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3046	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3051	During World War I, Norway lost control along the coast, including: as a result of submarine war. Right here nearby, potatoes were grown as a result of the critical shortage of food, although Norway was not directly at war. During World War II, we were directly occupied and thus more severely hit by the war on land, but we had taken a historical lesson and had security of grain in stock before the war broke out. It actually made the first period of World War II easier to deal with food. Today we see a government that has left the historical experience. It is clear from the papers sent by the government to the government budget that there is a more theoretical relationship with this. But is it that Bollestad, who is responsible for food, will take seriously the historical experience that Norway has?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3059	If there's something the government's taking seriously, it's ready. Firstly, we have made provision for more production of cereals, we have made provision for local drying, and we have made provision for the preparation of cereal seed. In addition, I notice that the working party itself is adding 30 million. kr to a stand-by warehouse. But what we've calculated is that it's going to cost over 450 million. to create a stand-by bearing according to the dimensions to be applied to three months of cereal storage, in addition to 50 million. kr to drive this. Thirty million. kr will not even keep to 12 days of cereal consumption. Therefore, we want to spend the money better to ensure preparedness in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3064	I have clarified the difference between this and the Minister of Agriculture before. It's like Norway imports cereals, so the difference is that we just buy a little bit more cereals for a period of time. The relevant thing here is to look at the storage cost. The second is like an investment cost. However, back to the relevant historical question: History shows that Norway is perhaps one of the most vulnerable countries in the world that is geographically located. The same thing happened during the Napoleonic wars, when Norway was hard cut off and lacked food on land. What I'm wondering a little bit after the fine line exchange with the representative, Reten, is that he said that the Christian People's Party will continue to follow up in line with what the red-greens have been agreeing to adopt here. But we now get another impression by the Minister of Agriculture, who claims that this has been followed up. The two things can't be possible at once. Either it should be followed up more, or the matter has not been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3073	Firstly, I fully support Mr Reiten's view that ensuring food production, preparedness and reducing conflicts in the least-favoured countries creates stability for us as well. It provides a better market when one ensures that those who have at least have access to it at least. We've taken it seriously to have less shelters on the individual farms. We have done that – in addition to drying and seedlings. In addition, we have given the Directorate of Agriculture a special task of monitoring the market all the way, just to ensure that we have access in case of a crisis. As it is now, all assessments say that this is not a wise way to spend the money when the situation is the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3080	However, there was one thing I was stunned at in the post of the representative, Reiten, because it was claimed that in major crises grain storage was not so topical, because then the crisis is going to be so great. But the experience of World War II showed that it was just very relevant to have extra food in stock, because we know that if it first breaks down in a society and people are hungry, cohesion and social structure are also breaking down. Finally, I would like to hear the views of the Minister of Agriculture. Is cereal storage a current security measure in both major and minor crises, whether climate change or the collapse of trade patterns in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3085	Preparedness will always be important. It is clear that when a stand in the 1940s was – quite correctly – a potato warehouse was an important piece of it. But once we have calculated what three months of readiness will mean, I think we must at least be able to have more thoughts in our head at once. That is, we're able to make arrangements to bring down a conflict area where you see that there's going to be food disputes. Then we have to help those who have the least, first, because it stabilizes the market in the world, and then we have to monitor this all the way. But what we've always talked about is three months of storage for Norwegian capacity, because we can't store too many years at a time. I think the Sand Throat is aware of that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3090	When the ban on fur farming was presented by the then State Council Dale, he made it clear that no one would lose money on it. It was later repeated by former State Council and Minister of Agriculture Hoksrud. Now we have the ultimate rule, and the council is very busy telling us that it's never been the intention to give full compensation to the fur farmers. It can argue for economic, legal and in many ways, but my question is: is not the state morally obliged to cover the economic loss suffered by people because of a political decision, which it is forbidden to hold fur animals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3095	It was sent to the hearing a proposal for the abolition of fur farming before the Christian People's Party entered the government. Then there was a sum of approx. 365 million. kr. Then one has in common with the four parties in Stortinget worked to increase this, and now there's an estimate of 850 million. kr. It's hard to say what is full compensation. There has been all along compensation and time in the system. That means that you can drive until 2025, end when you get the most left for what you do on your farm in the case of fur animals, and then it's compensation for the fur animal husbandry that we, as a state, are obliged to. We have said that we should compensate for this, but not full compensation. But compensation and time are in the scheme submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3100	The Council of State says the estimate is 850 million. kr. In the government documents, an estimated 800 – 850 million were written. kr. Now it has also appeared that the state is giving, and the state is taking, so it's going to be taxed by these money. What is the amount when the State has our taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3105	Thank you for the question. No separate tax system has been established for the compensation scheme for the winding-up of fur animals. It's a tax system that's been there all the way. There's a gain tax, that is, what's beyond book value. It's all about the industry, and it's also going to apply here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3110	Norwegian agriculture is under pressure from many teams. It is enough to mention foreign competition – despite some import protection of course – overproduction of milk and meat, animal welfare problems, etc. But then we have a general question. Is Norwegian agriculture sustainable in the long term – from a thousand-year perspective? It takes me a lot. We plow to a great extent – as before. We use fertilizer to a great extent – as before. We have erosion – as before. And we are releasing greenhouse gases in agriculture to a great extent – as before. In the short term, government councils may be willing to stimulate less intensive operations, for example: through sheep breeds with fewer lambs, cows with less eroded – combination scoop is a string – 50 pst. maritime storage with power feed, i.e. imports, where the country's position in the agricultural negotiations is quite essential, and can she say with her heart that Norwegian agriculture is sustainable in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3115	If there is any industry in this country that has changed and reduced its climate pressure over time, Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture has been willing to change production patterns, use new equipment, take on new knowledge to reduce the climate impact of its agriculture. On the world scale, Norwegian agriculture is among those with the lowest climate pressure. In addition, among the best animal welfare and the lowest use of antibiotics are antibiotics. They also use new technologies to calculate precisely fertilizers and not least how to use forests and agronomy for just being responsible for climate change in their production.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3121	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3126	Norway has had leaders who have thought about practical and long-term and thus contributed to people getting a job and a wage to live off. Not least it has given income to our country through work. Now, unfortunately, social development is going the opposite way. The number of jobs in the districts is too small and the deficits other than petroleum exports are too large. The Labour Party will have a fairer development of Norway and will ensure that there is a hope for the future for workers, young people and families, wherever you live. Then the values of our natural resources must benefit the broad population by having local jobs. That's why we, among other things, has a strong commitment to this state budget to travel a stronger forest industry here to land. We've created a package from planting to product. Because, of course, if we are to have a strong industry in the future, we must have enough resources. It starts with the idea that the forest will be used, but it will be managed and renewed. That's why we're going to increase investment for forest planting. The ingenious thing about wood as a material is that carbon is bonded through the growth in the tree. CO 2 is captured, and thus the wood cleans away CO 2 from the air, and the carbon is stored in the forest even after we have made products of it. The more times we can use this resource, a tree that's cut, by recycling the material and re-use it, the longer the bond gets. That's how we think we can get a combined bond from the forest resources in Norway that's over twice the size of what we have today. Therefore, we will have a specific facility in Norway that can recover wood and clean it so that it can be reused in industry. It increases total resource access to industry and is one of the most future-oriented, but also the most environmentally friendly, industrial projects we can do. We need to build this facility close to the existing industry, so that we can strengthen the basis for growth and value creation in our forest-based industry. To really get speed in value creation and, not least, greenhouse gas reduction, we believe that we can use three to an even greater extent in large structures. This is happening today with great luck in several parts of our country, and we know that good solid wood projects are going on. The same applies to the use of glues in bridge constructions. That's how we can hit two flies in one taste – we get both reduced greenhouse gas emissions and greater value creation out of the transport project in Norway. Because for us, industry and democracy are closely linked. Many communities in Norway have evolved and exist today because decisions have been made, including: in this room, which has made it possible to get a job there and which has later developed sustainable, viable societies. That is why the industrial and industrial policies we are discussing today are simply a tool for the overall objectives that we in the Labour Party have for our society. There is freedom for workers and families and strong communities in which we believe that tomorrow is getting a little better than today, because we see that social development is moving towards better distribution and prospects for the wider community. It's our industrial vision in the field by field, and the forest will be part of the package that we'll live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3145	The fact that things are going well throughout Norway is good, and today, as we know, Norway is back in the world’s best country to live in. Maybe you shouldn't believe it when you hear the opposition say it. On the right-hand side of the government is concerned that the framework conditions for Norwegian industry should be the best. In the future, there will be more elderly people per person employed, and when we know that the economy needs to be converted into greater value-creating in private business, the framework conditions for private business are important. Although there is no possibility in this state budget for the opposition to criticise us for excessive tax cuts, through our previous government budget, we have reduced taxes and taxes by 25 billion. kr. This we will continue to do in the future, just to equip business to be involved in the transformation of the economy. The value chain for food is one of the largest continental industries we have. Having an agricultural holding throughout the country is important for food production, but not least for the organisation of other industries such as local food, travel and living communities and cultural landscapes. The agricultural agreement that was negotiated between the parties in our country gave an average income increase of NOK 20 600 per year in agriculture. This is more than what other occupational groups were given. This agreement strengthened the cereal economy strongly, and this was important to strengthen the economy of cereal farmers, but also to clarify the channelling policy. The Agriculture Agreement also strengthened rural agriculture in the West and North Norway through a clear rural profile of several important grants. In addition, support for Arctic agriculture is doubled, from 2 million. NOK 4 million. kr. On the right, a network of female surveyors has been set up to meet farmers and organisations. This is well received by everyone and gives us a lot of important knowledge back. Recently we have visited fruit farmers both in Ulvik and in Gloppen. Here we both saw and heard about the results of the strengthening that the government has given to the fruit and vegetable farmers in the West. Over the last few years, the government has contributed to a separate package of measures for innovation and growth in the green sector – investment grants have increased and recruitment measures have been strengthened. Both in Ulvik and in Gloppen we could hear about the good results of this strengthening that has happened to this industry. Here, there is great potential for growth, but it is important that the growth takes place where conditions are best for fruit cultivation. At the same time, it is important that Norwegian agriculture can meet a changing climate. Because there is someone who is really affected by climate change, it is the farmer and his business. A good climate and environmental profile is essential for sustainable agriculture. The Agriculture Agreement is turning agriculture in a more environmentally friendly and climate friendly direction. A total of more than 5 billion are now committed to environmental and climate action under the agreement. kr, including the area and cultural landscape grants. I would also like to congratulate the parties on having concluded an agreement on climate change, which aims to reduce agriculture's emissions by 5 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent over the period 2021-2030. In order to improve the framework conditions for the farmers, the government also cut taxes on the farmer as a self-employed person by increasing the agricultural deduction to NOK 90 000. Access to the Internet is important to create new jobs, provide better public services and contribute to a simpler everyday life. Either the student at the school, the farmer in the poultry, the smoker out at the farm or the doctor at the hospital, are good access to the Internet. Therefore, the government will help all citizens and businesses to access the Internet, regardless of where they live. Where it's profitable, the commercial players have been willing to expand broadband, but in our long-range and winding country, there's no basis for commercial investment. Then the government sets up. In the State budget for 2020, the government proposes to allocate 256 million. kr in broadband grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3169	Global demand for seafood is increasing. Norway is the world’s second largest maritime food exporter. Every day, 37 million Norwegian seafood meals are served in 150 countries. The value of Norwegian maritime food exports has never been higher. The export value of Norwegian seafood in 2018 ended at EUR 99 billion. kr. Growth continues this year, and already last week we passed an important milestone by the fact that the export value so far in 2019 is over 100 billion. kr. This contributes to both great values and great activity throughout the country. This is due to the hard work of those who work in the industry. We also see the result of a fiscal policy that keeps the krone price stable and low, so that it also benefits the industry. As a major and important fishery and maritime population, Norway has a great responsibility. We have to show the world that it is fully possible to take better care of the sea while producing more seafood with high quality. We must make more use of the marine resources we have already harvested, and the sea must be used in a sustainable way. The government proposes 2.2 billion. kr for marine research into the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries for 2020. The funds shall contribute to the best possible knowledge base for the sustainable management of Norwegian sea and coastal areas. Marine management contributes to new knowledge-based jobs and businesses by focusing on enabling technologies and new knowledge. The government will build up under an industry established and operated in an environmentally sound manner. We are working to ensure predictability and competitive conditions so that the growth of the industry can continue. The traffic lighting system is an example of measures in place for capacity adjustments. This system of production capacity regulation takes account both of environmental considerations and of the opportunities available to breeders to continue their development. For the farming industry, technological development also means the potential to ensure the best possible environmental status. Digitalisation, automation, remote monitoring and Internet management and access to large data sets, so-called ‘big data’, are on their way into the industry. These tools contribute to increased knowledge of production, improved monitoring of fish health and the environment and provide significant efficiency gains. Norway has had a global leadership role in the fight for clean and healthy seas. The government's maritime policy has launched its own programme of assistance to maritime pollution, and the government has also proposed in the State budget to strengthen efforts to combat marine pollution by, among others, marine pollution. to increase the allocation of the Directorate of Fisheries. The climate footprint of the fishing industry needs to be reduced. Therefore, it is necessary to invest in climate-friendly and environmentally friendly fishing and vessel technology. The Government will contribute to this development through proposals for the conversion of the CO 2 fisheries fleet policy. We have done this in cooperation with the industry, so that we have put in place a compensation scheme that precisely takes account of the different ship groups through the way we have arranged it. We have major global challenges that require rapid transition in order to be competitive. The industry is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises and, in the autumn, the government has put forward a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the foundations of Norwegian business. These enterprises are crucial for viable communities throughout the country. Fisheries and seafood are an innovative industry that needs more knowledge and new technologies to contribute to increased value creation. The government proposes to grant 10 million. on the budget of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea to build up a monitoring system in the coastal zone, inter alia. shall be able to notify of algal blooms. Fisheries and seafood have an incredibly high potential for Norway, and the government is grasping the opportunities to ensure profitability and sustainability. The industry has grown rapidly and is among the main industries of the future for Norway. So it's important that we do things the right way. We will ensure that we sustainably harvest resources while providing opportunities for the industry to develop further and create more jobs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3198	As I also said in my post, there has been a lot of discussion about the leadership grant this autumn. There is something the Minister for Fisheries has been very anxious to get rid of – at least he will not pay for that subsidy, which is so important for the many receptions we have along our coast. The government parties at Stortinget have cashed in a victory, which I might think it was a little early to collect, but you think you've saved it. The majority's comment states that a new regime should be introduced, but that it should take place over time. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: How does the Minister for Fisheries interpret this? Is it such that this is something which, regardless of the regime put forward by the Minister for Fisheries, is to be introduced, only for a little longer, or is the leadership grant now frozen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3211	I'm interpreting it as it actually says. It shows that on Stortinget you have a great commitment to this particular industry. In addition, they have understood what the government has actually meant in this case – as opposed to the representative Myrseth – because it has never been relevant to remove the leadership grant. That's what the Council of State has been clocking. But we wanted a new facility for financing it, that is, through the confiscated funds linked to the fish sales laws, and that is only the budget line that the Stortinget wanted to take out and finance in a different way. The driving grant was to be maintained, only with another device, and so on. Therefore, the Council of State will follow up on what the government parties in the Storting have asked me to do, and will ensure that the remaining funds, in addition to what is granted by the Storing today, are brought up by means of confiscated funds. That will be done by the Council of State, and the regulation is already being consulted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3218	The challenge is that things don't go up if it shouldn't go down on anything else. The Minister for Fisheries has repeatedly tried to reject this, but both industry and others agree with what I have also said several times. Among other things, a party colleague of the Minister for Fisheries, Dagfinn Olsen, of the Nordic countries, who may be an unknown name for the Minister, has said: ‘The Minister of Fisheries proposes a system that will depend on crime being committed by people in the fishing industry.’ What is it that the representative Olsen from Nordland has not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3228	I guess I'm going to answer questions and not what people meant, because unfortunately I don't have a glass ball that makes me look into people's heads. I hope that the representative Myrseth also accepts that. But at least I can say what's been meant by the very way of arranging it: The driving grant has nothing to do with criminal activities regarding the collection of funds and the financing of the grant. Retired funds may include overcatching of a purse seiner, which would result in the withdrawal of what goes beyond the quota. Nothing has been done unlawfully, but the funds have been withdrawn as a result of breaching the quota. It is strange that the representative Myrseth thinks it is perfectly possible to use the same means for control measures, quality measures, etc. This is money that comes in anyway, and the background to my original proposal is that these funds are taken in to the public. The fish sales teams are responsible for the first hand placing on the market of fish, and therefore I felt it was natural that it was there. It will now do some of this, while the rest will be taken through the budgetary procedure here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3237	I have no idea that the Minister of Fisheries is going to go into people's heads. Even though I'm a psychologist, I can't look directly into people's heads. In the feedback that has come, not least from the sales teams themselves, it is said that you are facing a choice by using funds if you do not receive sufficient funds for the leadership grant. The Labour Party has granted the money that is needed, and the Minister for Fisheries has not wanted it. The government has added up to someone. But if that's what the industry says, what are they going to choose? Should they choose less control, or should they choose to decline reception? You can ask the Minister for Fisheries about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3245	Now I'm not a psychologist, but I'm a fishing instructor – and that's very good in this case. As far as priority is concerned, the regulation, which we have just sent out at the hearing, revolves around giving priority to control measures and leadership grants – it is clarified in this respect. And the savings associated with the post withdrawal funds from the fish sales laws are expected, among other things. shall be used for this action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3252	I was actually going to ask a little bit about the same thing, but I really think we've got an answer. What I want to address anyway is the compensation for the CO 2 tax mentioned by the Council of State. How is that to be done, and how has the Council of State intended to differentiate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3260	It is differentiated in this way by dividing it into three groups, because we know that there are different factors related to the different fisheries. We know that some fisheries mean that you have to use relatively large engine power for, among other things. dragging the beam. We also know that in coastal fishing for shrimps, among other things, there are relatively high costs from smaller catches. That's why we're dividing these things into groups based on the amount of reimbursement, which is 1.06 kroner, which is what you're referring to, which is how to compensate for the extra costs you have. In addition, it is quite clear that we expect the industry itself to take some measures to reduce CO 2 emissions. It is already done within a number of areas. We have seen it in service boats and in the farming industry, and switching to articulated lights on larger vessels also brings down the CO 2 component because one uses less fuel for energy. All of these things help. This gives us a greener diet, consumers are going to demand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3271	The Council of State has a sort of Norwegian record in being the Council of State for Fisheries and getting the industry into business – he got the industry against himself so it's delicious in connection with the quota notification – and in areas by area. He also received the nutrition when it applied to the budget and cut into social arrangements, not least the leadership. It must be interesting for the Council of State to see that his own party traps at Stortinget are contrary to his recommendations and would like this scheme to be continued. They see something that government councils don't see from government offices, that this will actually go beyond both coastal fishing and industry, less land-based fishing, etc. How does the Council of State feel to be a state council that is constantly at war with the industry and does not work with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3276	It is not the Council of State, and it is far from the experience of the Council of State. I travel land and beach around, watch and listen to the industry and do a number of things for the industry. We have an industry that sets historical records related to exports, we have companies that go down, so I don't feel what the representative refers to. With regard to the leadership grant, which is once again a topic here, I repeat once again: it has not been a matter of removing the leadership grant. It has been a topic to change the scheme on how to pay for it – loan of public funds. We thought it was right to transfer this to the sales teams. The size has said that parts of this should be granted in the same way. I have, after all my years here as a great representative, great respect for the work of the Storting and do just as the Storting has asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3283	There is no one on this mission who really believes in the Council of States. In fact, you want to run from an account and leave it to the fish stocks. That's it, we know that. There's nothing the council here can twist and turn on to make that truth change. That's precisely why the state council's own party traps found out that this isn't actually going to work. Here we have some overarching fisheries policy objectives that the government with this scheme does not meet, in the same way as the reception of the fisheries notification from the Council of State. One would really grab hold of the quota policy in this country and get the whole industry against all the most important points. And that's what happened. Then is the question to the Council of State whether he will come back to the Stortinget with suggestions in the next round where he will extract tips that just increase the value creation along the coast and increase the reception of fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3288	I think I have to reply once again to the representative of Knag Fylkesnes that the funds collected are not the resources of the fish sales teams. These include: The size and government that regulates how to use confiscated funds through regulations. That is why I have just sent out a proposal for a change to the regulation, which suggests that funds should be withdrawn, among other things. shall be used for two priority actions in particular. First, it is control measures relating to the fishing industry and resources, and, second, a lead grant to ensure industry – that this system is put in place so that it is financed. Removing the scheme has not been relevant. I'm about to ask respect for that, I don't know how many times I've blacked out the representative Knag Fylkesnes at this in various contexts. It is maintained and will be done in the same way as the Storting requests after voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3293	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3298	In this year's budget, the Labour Party has used much of the economic space to invest in creating more jobs throughout the country. Let's use 1 billion. kr for green food conversion - part of it in this budget and part of it in the budget of other departments. We do that because Norway has never been as oil dependent as we are now. We buy goods from abroad for 250 billion. kr more than what we sell goods for – if you ignore the revenue from oil and gas. When the government took over in 2013, that was 170 billion. kr. That means that our trade balance is going in the wrong direction. We have become even more dependent on the revenue from oil and gas, and at the same time, the use of oil in dollars above the state budget has doubled over the same period. Then an offensive food budget becomes more important than ever. Today, Norwegian oil and gas industries employ 225 000. That figure is going to fall, although there will be no major changes in Norwegian energy policy, for Norwegian extraction is going down, even with the plans available today. Although we still need to develop oil and gas industries, alternatives are needed – to generate both income for the country and new jobs. Travel life is located throughout the country and is an important district industry. Already today, tourism employs 175 000 people, and travel life has strong prospects for growth in the coming years, both globally and in Norway. On a global basis, it's calculated to be 50 pst. increase in travel life by 2030, i.e. only over the next ten years. This is one of the industries that can provide many new jobs in the future. In addition to the ordinary support apparatus available to all enterprises for research, development and financing, Innovation Norway has had a special mission through Visit Norway. to get more people to come and visit Norway. They have been marketing Norway abroad. Unfortunately, the government wants to cut by over 50 million. kr in the year’s budget. Norwegian Travel Life, NHO Travel Life and Working Travel Life have underlined that the work on profiling Norway should also have been strengthened. The government relies on two reports showing that the marketing has not produced enough results when they do their cut. The working party wants to spend this money and believes that the work should have been improved and targeted rather than cut. Many travel organisations are critical of the reports that the government uses to legitimize the cut, and believe it is a thin professional basis. The most important thing for the Workers' Party is that this is an industry we want to bet on, it's a future industry. For many less-known travel destinations, the investment in travel life through Visit Norway is crucial. It allows the support that Visit Norway provides to all the destinations around the country when they are going out to meet tour operators and sell in just their destination. Although we have a nice increase in overnight stays in Norway, it is still only 55 pst. occupations at Norwegian hotels, and it suggests that we have the opportunity if we can get more people to choose to visit our beautiful country. At the same time, they need to spread throughout the year, and they need to visit more regions. That is why the Labour Party proposes 30 million. more than the government to promote Norway as a country of travel. There is reason to point out that the two increases in VAT for travel life made under this government, from 8 via 10 to 12 pst, have not given any increased competitiveness to the industry. In particular, it is regrettable that the changes have come at two months' notice, making the government unpredictable and making it difficult for the industry to adapt. It was the same short notice when a fare was introduced. Unfortunately, the cut in profiling does not come alone. There's also money gone from the cultural budget to bet on tourism and culture, and there's a cut on national tourist roads of 25 million. kr. But the most important thing may be that regional development funds are so heavily cut. When the Arctic Race of Norway was created, it was important that the Labour Party-led Ministry of Economic Affairs contributed, but certainly it was also important that the three Nordic states chose to go in to create the People's Party and the marketing that Arctic Race of Norway has become. Unfortunately, the budget shows that the government is depriving this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3326	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3331	The fact that we have jobs and opportunities for business development across the country is a cornerstone of the whole welfare system. Then I must mention that in the budget that the Municipal and Administrative Committee debated here last week, we proposed 200 million from the Labour Party. to regional development funds in order to strengthen precisely the potential for food growth throughout the country. For several years, the government and the Minister of Industry have basically cut off this post, and we see that from the Workers' Party as a poor solution to provide more jobs throughout the country, jobs that we might badly need. The level of employment mentioned here gives cause for concern. Norway needs more work, we need more jobs, and we need to export more. In addition to the pooling of skills and industrial efforts, the working party has generally also seen the need to improve its framework conditions for individual industries that need it. About 16,500 years of work spread throughout the country is now under strong pressure. We risk losing many of these jobs if the framework conditions for this industry are not improved. We have listened to the danger signals from this industry over time, and now the industry reports that all red lamps are shining. It would have been to hope that the Minister of Industry — and to the extent that the Minister of Agriculture — had seen and understood these signals and then responded, but the government comes to this industry in its draft budget with crumbs and cold water. The Labour Party, on the other hand, has listened, and we want to improve the framework conditions for horse nutrition by 100 million. kr already from 2020, because it is the one that generates around 16 500 annual works around the country – many of them good skills jobs also in the districts, not least. So to another issue that is a challenge for Norwegian jobs. The border trade is setting new records, and the SSB estimates it is now in a staggering 17.6 billion. kr in the last 12 months. Working and NHO call at all times – they say that this is unsustainable, and they ask the government to take responsibility, intervene to reduce the trade leakage and secure Norwegian jobs and Norwegian value creation. The question then is, what does the Minister of Industry say about the challenge of the NHO and Work on the theme of cross-border trade? It should be an area the Council of State could engage in. I guess we're raining about. 1000 jobs per billion, so there are jobs to pick up if you want. We remember that at least one of the government parties we have today was quite high on the track and promised that they would clean this up only if they came into the government offices. So now the border trade is setting new records. Norway loses valuable jobs in the commercial sector. That responsibility lies on the government's table, and I wonder what kind of response the government then has to work and to the NHO.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3343	The fishing industry creates great values. The fish is owned by the Norwegian people in common. In order for ownership to be realised in practice, new generations must be allowed to enter the industry. This is not the case if the recruits are stopped by allowances and concessions as they are now. The resources must be managed by the Ministry and the Directorate under Norwegian law. It is doubtful whether the fisheries management will do so, as will be highlighted by the Riksrevision in a report that is likely to be released on 15 May 2020. The view of the centre party is clear: if the fisheries management complies with the law, fisheries will ensure the creation of value and jobs in local communities along the coast. The government's draft budget will lead to the centralisation of fisheries. Therefore, in our draft budget, we will reverse the government's cuts and introduce measures to strengthen fisheries and the fishing industry. The central party believes that the government's proposal for a government budget will affect those who have their way at sea, by constantly promoting proposals to cut welfare offers, which may most probably affect the smallest fleet, landing the most fish that go to the best paying use, and which often lack good enough facilities on board. Today’s government also weakens the impact of the fishing deduction and herds in nutritional measures that affect fishermen’s working life. The centre lot will retain grants to fish welfare stations and increase the fishing deduction. Each year, significant quantities of fish are taken up by means of so-called tourist fishing. The centre party will facilitate a tourist fishing, but choose to mark one that restores values locally and acts within the current and new legislation, which intensifies the conditions of the industry. Therefore, fishing activities hidden as tourist fishing must be stopped. This fish destroys Norwegian interests and local workplaces. The centre batch proposes to increase the control of these fisheries by allocating funds to special tourist fisheries inspectors stationed in the most-pressed fishing vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3354	Several of the efforts of the Workers' Party in this food budget deserve mention. Andøya is a society that the big community has a special duty to set up, and it's easy when it's also a society that has great opportunities. Through Andyya Spaceport, we may have the opportunity to contribute to small satellite top shooting, and the state must, as the largest owner, contribute equity to the project they have there. The working party has set aside 60 million. kr in equity of Andøya Space Center to build up under this investment. We also allocate money to fishing ports in Andes, where many traders want to establish themselves, on the area that will be a consequence of this port development. Unfortunately, from the day they decided to transfer it to the regions, the government has stopped all fishing at the port. And from More to Finnmark, it has now been said that you do not want to take over this responsibility as long as it does not follow funding. In addition, we have allocated funds for health nutrition, because it is a fact that Norway uses most of our research resources to research health, but we are very little able to convert it to businesses in the same way that some countries around us are doing it. We've wanted to bet on the catapult system, so we can help commercialize research results. That means we can create opportunities in the future. It's interesting to hear the great belief of the right parties in property taxes. Because it's a matter of belief and less of fact when you say that cuts in wealth taxes create jobs. The Ministry of Finance has been asked about this several times: can dynamic effects be demonstrated by the use of a property tax code? No, it can't. But you know that those who have money – those who have the big fortunes – are getting richer. Nor is it the case that all those who have assets and pay taxes on wealth run their own businesses. It can't be that the only thing we have to tax in this society is work. It will then be difficult to finance our common well-being in the future. I would also like to mention that for the Workers' Party it is particularly important that the Brønn Island Health Registers have sufficient appropriations, so that they can have an effective procedure, because it saves the business for expenses. That is why we have increased the appropriations allocated to the Brønn Island Health Registers for the next year, because they are involved in developing a new procedural system and have to operate two in parallel for a number of years to come. In addition, information security expenditure on the Brønn Island Health Registers is increasing considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3367	In the future, we need to cut hazardous emissions, create new jobs and make money. Then we can't go on like before. We have to see everything we do in the context. SV has a strong commitment to local economy, and that is important, because it is an incredibly important infrastructure for all business life in Norway. And then we're going to increase by 200 million. D the regional instruments which the government has cut over 1 billion. kr. It is money – as the government writes in the budget – that provides more jobs and better earnings. Then you go straight to it and cut there. There's an SV very disagreeable. There is well spent money, and there will be jobs of them in the districts. SV believes that what we are doing, for example: in the construction industry, have to work in the same direction and create jobs, e.g. how we receive grants and loans for rehabilitation, accessibility, accommodation and energy upgrade to work together and create a good construction industry that meets future quality requirements and also cuts in greenhouse gas emissions and saves energy. It's very smart if you do it this way. We also want us to have an interest-rate compensation scheme for the necessary infrastructure in the municipalities as a result of extreme weather. Water is such an important resource for individuals and for all businesses. It is also an industry in Norway. Norwegian water is quite large. Here we can combine public efforts with essential infrastructure and take care of one of the most important resources we have, namely clean water. There's good business policy in it. This is an example of good cooperation between the private and public sectors. Norwegian competence is far ahead, but the government is absent. In addition to that, we see that the counties in the West have gone ahead in getting a boat and ferry that gives zero emissions. But what does the government do in response and thanks for doing so? No, they cannot compensate for the extra costs they have in the first tenders where it is very expensive. Many then have to count on the buttons, because now the county councils have been cut off their budgets and have to tighten up on areas by area. There's the industry ahead, and there's the county municipalities ahead. Therefore SV says: Let's now take the pucking costs that the county councils have, and put in as a principle that public transport tenders should apply hereafter to zero emissions. It will develop Norwegian business, and it will make the public sector sustainable in the future, as we have created both jobs and cut into greenhouse gas emissions. And the jam is someone who's made money too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3380	The division of committees and the division of labour of the Grand Duchy is often striking, but sometimes not particularly striking, and for us who live in the West, it is difficult to think of nutrition without thinking about the petroleum sector and the power industry. For this house, petroleum policy can sometimes only seem to be freedom of action and climate, and power policy is only energy policy and climate policy. Where I come from, this is the very livelihood and hubs of a large ecosystem of entrepreneurs, shipyards, engineering, industry, refinery – I can continue infinitely, down to the smallest yard and the smallest mechanical enterprise around the West. As I said, these are jobs, that's what we live by. That's why I want to take this opportunity to point a little at those industries as well, and how important they are as hubs in, as I said, an ecosystem of industry. Both power-intensive industries and other industries are based on the demand and resources they provide. Therefore, it is a little worrying in this budget that where there has previously been an agreement, at least apparently, that once taxes have been reduced for ordinary company taxes, only the interest rates have been adjusted accordingly, so that these industries have not benefited from the reduced tax rate. While it is entirely right with regard to a base rate assessment, at the same time we see in the budget proposals now presented, which increase the tax on general income, that one has not taken into account the need to deal with it in the same way, with proposals for tax increases. This means that it may seem that several of the opposition parties have submitted proposals to add a top tax in addition to the special tax. SV says it's right. It presents a small challenge for my part of the country. That means that the investments and the demand that come from this industry, these two major industries in my region, will be smaller, and it will affect my part, our part, of the country stronger than others. It means less demand and less deployment of renewable energy, and that means less demand impact of the oil industry. When one here says that we've become more dependent on oil, it looks a little different for my part of the country, where we know that the number of employees has fallen, where the income as part of GDP has fallen, where the income as a share of the government budget has fallen, and where we have lost a good deal of jobs in that process. Before we talked about 300,000 jobs, now we're talking about 220,000 jobs. Things happen here, and it's not right that we've become more dependent on the oil, on the contrary: we've become less dependent on the oil and gas industry in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3391	The Minister of Fisheries told me during a pause that he would come up with good arrangements that would allow us to get control of the uncontrolled tourist fishing, which has now been a while. The proposal will be read with interest. The Central Party wants the State to contribute more to the investment of young recruiters in the smallest coastal fleet, for example: with loans, social security loans and grants, usually directed by Innovation Norway. We therefore propose to increase the subsidy to replace and modernise the Starship, vessel below 15 metres. This could provide an even more climate-friendly and modern coastal fleet. The centre batch will move landings and the production of fish back to Norway – one measure is to develop a programme for increased automation in the fishing industry. This can also be managed by Innovation Norway. We will further strengthen the leadership grant. The driving aid allows for the holding of reception stations for fish all over the coast. The contribution is incredibly important to maintain fishing activity for the smallest fishing fleet, which is the second best quality fish. The government has tried several times to cut the scheme, but this has been stopped in Stortinget. This creates uncertainty in the coastal communities concerned. Finally, the Centre Party will also propose a significant investment in fishing ports and fairways. Many societies are really struggling now because of the government's lack of action in this area. Take, for example: Mehamn, how fast the route can't turn because there's no dredging in the port. Fishing boats can't get to dock in many ports because the port is growing again. This creates a little homely. Finally, the Centre Party will continue to reduce the rate of CO 2 levy for fisheries. We cannot follow the government's proposal to compensate the industry either. We fear this will produce undesirable effects in both the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3407	Last week was an important milestone for Norway. For the first time we export seafood for over 100 billion dollars. kr. The industry has been growing rapidly in recent years, and exports have almost doubled since 2012 with the Government Advance Party. Seafood is closer to 10 pst. of all Norwegian exports of goods, including oil and gas. It's good for District Norway, because this industry creates jobs across the country. The Norwegian seafood inventory is a result of, among other things, good management of resources in our marine areas. A good knowledge base is a prerequisite for good resource management. Another industry that is important, which is 6 pst. exports from Norway are mines and minerals. Mining has the potential to become a significant industry in North Norway. There are large underground mineral resources that can be transformed into jobs and revenues for areas that are sorely in need. Focusing on the mineral industry is good district policy. There is also an important part of the green shift that we need in the Norwegian economy to go in a more environmentally friendly direction. The Nussir mine in Kvalsund, which extracts copper, has the potential to become an important employer in Finnmark. Earlier this year, the Nussir government granted an operating concession. Many have tried to stop this project, but the government has now dealt with the complaints that have been received, and found no basis for amending the decision. Reason has finally won. Nussir will create many important jobs and will have positive ring-effects both for the community and for the whole region of West Finland. This is the largest operating licence granted in Norway for at least a few decades, and for which the Progress Party has fought for years. The world is going to need more and more copper in the future. Then it is gratifying that we have a nutritious government, so that the copper can be extracted in Norway with sound environmental requirements and safe operation. The mineral extraction in Kvalsund will be environmentally beneficial. The government has followed up the promise to strengthen the mineral industry by increasing the support to both the Directorate of Mineral Management and the NGU in recent years. By 2020, the Directorate for Mineral Management will receive an additional 3.5 million. kr, such as shall reduce the duration of the procedure for the mineral industry. There has been a major problem that it has been years since the application for a concession has been delivered, until authorisation has been granted. This is getting better. The case-handling period has been significantly reduced from 2016 to 2018 and the concession queue has been reduced to two to three years in 2018. The government shall give further priority to reducing the length of proceedings, and that is good. Finally, another problem with the application process is that it can be very extensive for the applicant. There are many departments and agencies involved that need to grant authorisation. That is why I think it is high time to streamline the application process, so that it makes it easier for those who want to operate mining activities to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3424	So it goes down in Northern Ireland, says government members and representatives of government parties, and later like business is going well because of right-wing government. But it's not like that. Growth in Northern Ireland began long before right-wing government came to power. Nordland has had a good ten-year growth period, and in 2012 a new population record was set in the north. But the growth now shows signs of flattening, reports the Nordic index. We've got a couple of completely different scores lately. We've set new record for the decline in the population. For the first time in twelve years, the population is falling in all the Nordic states simultaneously. Northland tops the list of folklore. In the third quarter, Nordic countries lost over 700 people, minus 8 a day. The decline in population has not been recorded in the last 20 years. It looks like government disassembly and centralization are starting to work really well. In 2015, the NHO received a COWI report showing three different directions for North Norway. They were called SNOW, LED, and FOLLOW. SNU was an alternative with more district policy, i.e. a proper counter-current policy. That would increase the value creation in the north by 20 billion. NOK 2040. The result was just to continue the policy that was in 2016, but LEDE was to speed up the centralization, i.e. exactly the dismantling that the government is doing today. That'll lead to 11 billion. kr less in value creation in the north of 2040. From a business point of view, more district policy will be very important. It is not emergency aid; it is investment for the acquisition of income. There are three grep government parties could start by taking. The first was not to weaken the framework transfers so much to the districts and in the north. For example, Nordland has 5 million. kr less compared to 2015. The other two measures I think I have to take afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3435	Before the weekend we could read in Stavanger Aftenblad that State Council Bollestad had received an invitation that she had not responded to. I have a lot of understanding that a government council has busy days, but she should spend time responding to the invitation from the board of Rogaland Pelf feed team to a conversation about their difficult situation. It may seem that feed producers have been forgotten in the battle for the cessation of the production of fur farmers. The company concerned, the largest of three farms in Norway producing feed for fur animals, had 25 employees. This became 15 employees a couple of weeks ago, when six of them joined the other four that had ended some time ago. The pet factories say that they can change, but not without support for the conversion. They further process secondary resources, important and valuable secondary resources from other food producers, among others, and they can be used for other purposes. I understand that it can be seen as arrogant not to respond to an invitation to have a dialogue with an enterprise that is about to go down due to poor government decisions – or absence of decisions. This would be an entirely different way for the Industrial Party to handle the Workers' Party. Another thing that upsets us is the way the government treats big and/or important businesses. The industrial company Figjo AS, Norway's only porcelain factory, received almost overnight a premium on the CO 2 tax, which costs the company about NOK 900000 extra in expenses. The company reports that the entire production is actually at risk. They're running at relatively small margins. This is, in addition to expenditure, highly distorting competition — when this type of enterprise is exempt from the same charge in the EU — because they are currently required to use gas for the temperate process. So this is disappointing. I had hoped that industry would be a higher priority than what it would be from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3453	Travel is an important contributor to strengthening both housing and local value creation, and it is not least an industry that creates jobs across the country, has a significant tax impact on municipalities and is of great importance for an inclusive and diverse working life. Travel life is growing internationally, and Norway is well placed to succeed in a sustainable international travel market. If we are to succeed in the tourism industry and in public cooperation, travel and experience products that are adapted to different target groups need to be developed, both in seasons and seasons. Proper international profiling is important for extracting the potential of a global travel market. Norwegian authorities and Norwegian tourism have a joint responsibility to preserve Norwegian nature, culture, climate, environment and social values, which facilitate an economically sustainable travel life. Earlier in the debate, we have also found that there are many possibilities through digitisation, and not least by having a favourable price. It is also gratifying that in this year's budget there are clear traces of climate. Agriculture must definitely be part of the green shift. That is why it was particularly gratifying that we also put in place the practical hub that lies at the Mæra agricultural school, which is an important part of the green shift. Like some in the past, channelling policy is as important now as it was before. We also need to raise it further. The left also has great faith in Norwegian agriculture, which is why we cannot remove critical voices either. It is a democratic approach. Some have been in the forest during the debate, and good forest management is of course important, both in the context of long-term strategies within fuels and not least in the field of carbon capture and storage. I also think that we should not forget the traditional wood processing, where the use of wood can provide great opportunities for use. So it might be tempting to say something about what we were working on in the last period, what we then called loss compensation to different counties, which is about making the transition at the time of population decline, which is especially about those who are under 16 and in high school, and which caused some states to get a little worse out. But I have to be allowed to replicate to one of the previous speakers, Mrs. Mossleth, who said it's because it's $5 million. kr less to Nordland County, that things have become as they have become: I think it is remarkable when we know that business is going well in Northernland. But it's not going to come from the fact that her party has been running the county council for a number of years, and that might be the basis for asking some critical questions to itself: Is there something you might have done that has not been entirely in place to meet that development?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3466	The representative Cecilie Myrseth spent his time on fisheries. Let's say right away: over the years, the Workers' Party has had many profiled fisheries ministers. There has been a lot of good and responsible fisheries policy from that party. Today, however, when she stands on the platform and presents it as if the Workers' Party is also in the future a guarantee of predictability in the fishing industry, it really starts to shudder. There is a lot of visibility in politics. It's word clover and thank you very much. But there are some hard facts in our discipline as well. One of the hard facts is that Norwegian fisheries and Norwegian seafood are totally dependent on the EEA Agreement to obtain provisions for their products and to have earnings in the future. It is also the case that there is no renegotiation clause in the EEA Agreement. Either we have the EEA Agreement, or we have nothing. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly tried to challenge both the Labour Party and the other opposition parties that we are moving towards a election in 2021 with an unexplained situation around the EEA. If the representative Myrseth sees in the glass sphere – she doesn't really need to see so far, she can look at the latest polls – she sees that before the election campaign starts in 2021, the Workers' Party is in a situation with a dramatically changed power ratio compared to eight years ago. The parties seeking a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement are now in majority with the Labour Party at the end of 2019. Now the Workers' Party must give an answer to the business community in North Norway. We were both on Husøydagan on Senja earlier this fall, at the lunch meeting organized by the NHO, where representatives from the Karlsen Brothers said it would be a disaster for them if the EEA agreement breaks down. Does the Workers' Party intend to enter into negotiations with the parties with which they wish to cooperate in a government to renegotiate the EEA Agreement? For business – not only in North Norway but for all export-oriented business in Norway – sending is a bit of a signal. This means that the right to self-determination of our fishing resources is being played out. This means that agricultural import protection will be compromised. That means market access for 70 pst. by Norwegian salmon will be played. Now we have to get an answer from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3477	I'd like to say a little bit about a comment that might seem completely insignificant in the Committee's position, but it's quite significant anyway. I have addressed it in a debate in the media not long ago as well. I choose to believe that there may be a work accident on the part of the committee. It's quite remarkable, and I'll take a little quote: ‘The majority consider it important that the objective of the appropriations above this item be respected’ — we are talking about the item Support to organisations — ‘and that one does not provide support above this item to organisations that do not support animal husbandry, Norwegian agricultural policy or agricultural policy objectives’. Then the Center Party goes even further in its remark. They actually also name an organisation that should have zero in support because it has a different angle in Norwegian agricultural policy, a critical angle, an angle in the direction of more plant production perhaps. But most of these organizations, in fact everyone I've seen on the list, want the districts well and want living settlements. These comments I think have been an accident from most parties, but I should like to hear the views of the various parties on the remark. Did something go under the radar, or do they stand for that remark? In that case, we are involved in quite wild ways of managing the opinions of the organisations. Think if we had such a situation on the Culture Committee. What are we going to rule by opinions there? Here we are on wild roads, and in the case of the Central Party in this case, we separate layers of agricultural policy from the position. So they go even further. It's kind of scary. As I see it, this comment – at least from the Center Party – can also become a boomerang of its own. In fact, in this room, there's a lot of things going on. And I think maybe at the next crossroads, in a couple of years, agricultural policy might have turned around a lot. Who are we gonna listen to? What is the current government policy? Is that the policy of the majority of the population? Well, if that's the big crowd's policy – and then I'm going to turn to one of the representatives in the room that I can look at right now, without mentioning the name – it's like that, for example. People's reaction to new predatory policies is going to be 1.6 million. kr in support? So they have a policy that does not entirely follow the views of the majority of the population. They want the wolf out. It's a strange principle note, which I think everyone should take over. Is this an accident at work, or is it really such that the majority in the Chamber means what it says?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3492	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3497	There have been several positive points in today's debate. One of them that I want to draw out is that it is very good that the representative Myrseth of the Workers' Party in his post has discovered and expressed that there is great activity and is going well on the coast. These are actually new notes from the Workers' Party. There's been a completely different tone when you've traveled around in Troms and Finnmark. Then I have to comment on a few points that the Minister for Fisheries has also tried to explain well. It is completely wrong that the government has proposed to remove the lead grant. The driving allowance shall not be removed but otherwise financed. To the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal, who claims that the government has stopped all efforts at fishing ports: travel to Gamvik, travel to Kamøyvær, travel to Finnmark County Municipality and ask how much design means they have to fishing ports. They've never experienced the husband. To the representative Adelsten Iversen: It was not a big challenge with Mehamn before the molo was built in 2018. Then it appeared, and then it became a fairway project because there were challenges for the Hurtigruten.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3508	First of all, just so that we can clarify it, so that there are no misunderstandings after the replacement of a line between the undersigned and the representative Knag Fylkesnes in terms of confiscated funds, I will just refer to Section 54 of the Marine Resource Act, which reads as follows, first and second sections: ‘The catch or the value of catches which have been or have been delivered in breach of the laws laid down in or pursuant to the laws here, or the law of the participant, shall be in the case of the salsa, or the State if the catch does not fall under the right of sale of the lettuce. This applies without regard to whether the relationship entails criminal liability. The Ministry may lay down rules on the handling of such cases, on the determination of the value of the catch, on the granting of compensation for landing costs and on the use of such means.’ It is correctly set out in the legal text, so there is no misunderstanding as to who owns or does not own this catch. I have a few things I just want to comment on after a few of the posts, so that's what they say. The representative Myrseth asked in his statement whether or not action was taken in relation to fishing crime, etc. Yes, we have taken a number of measures to clarify and implement measures related to industry illegalities. That's why you've got a-krim centres to work across this. Therefore, it has been ensured that in connection with the kingdom cancer issue in Finnmark, one has also worked across them and spent a long time exposing the crime that is. That's why the a-krim centers had just this review in connection with the loot fishing and revealed actions there that are in conflict with what we want to be connected to. That is why there is consultation from the undersigned on fishing tourism, precisely to ensure that we come up with new measures to ensure that we have control of this industry here, too, without jeopardising the value created by fishing tourism businesses. But we need to have control of our systems. Norway is doing very well, but exports of seafood are not doing well without a good and active trade policy. That is why, in recent years, we have established important trade agreements with Indonesia and Mercosur. We have also concluded several Brefit agreements with the United Kingdom, and just working on market access is a very high priority because we are going to sell these amazing products. When we experienced the algal crisis early in May, we took action, and there are actually very few who have made any criticisms about it, precisely because we listened to the industry and made sure that good action was taken. When we were made aware of it, among other things. in South Norway, we took steps to ensure that the industry got the framework conditions they needed. So we deliver as well as we can at all, and it helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3528	There are many good and important initiatives through this budget, which provide opportunities to create new and important jobs throughout Norway. I am pleased that the Right and the government in the draft budget make it clear how important the Brønnøysund registers are to be a national controller and data source. The main objective of the Brønn Island Health Registers is to ensure that the activities lead to the confidence of the society that recorded data is safe and accurate. Through new data initiatives, cooperation and re-use, the registry solutions of the Brønn Island Health registries play a significant role in innovation and in effective digital interaction between different actors. The government rates in Brønnøysund and on the Brønnøsund registers and Altinn. Now we are working on a new registry platform, for which the government has given a clear signal – a project of over 1 billion. kr in the frame. Furthermore, there is a clear signal for new construction for the Brønnøsund registers. Then we are aware of the challenges ahead in time for increased rent costs as well as increased management costs for dual operation of new and old registry solutions. I want this to be an eye for the government to follow up in dialogue with the Brønnøsund registers in the future. Furthermore, I am pleased with the priority that the government parties did here at Stortinget by strengthening each of the geoparks by 1 million. kr for each of them. This concerns Geo Norvegica in Telemark, Magma in Rogaland and Trollfjell in Nordland and Trondelag. The combination of protection, sustainable development and the involvement of communities makes geoparks increasingly popular. Finally, I have to draw up the EEA Agreement, which I dare say is the most important agreement for business throughout Norway, and especially for business in District Norway. 75 pst. Norwegian exports go to EU countries. Of the 99 bn. Norway exports seafood for 2018, amounted to 66 billion. kr to the EU market. Termination of the EEA Agreement and replacing it with a trade agreement from 1973 will have a direct impact on our trade with EU countries. Automatic approval of Norwegian products, produced under the EEA Agreement in accordance with EU legislation, will lapse. This means that technical barriers to trade, which in modern economies often play a much more important role than customs, remain – including the withdrawal of the veterinary regime, which ensures that Norwegian exports of Norwegian seafood are not subject to veterinary checks at the EU border. There should be no doubt that dealing with and jeopardising the EEA Agreement will be jeopardising several thousand Norwegian jobs – jobs that are largely located in the districts. The right will not put Norwegian jobs and society in District Norway at risk of jeopardising the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3551	It has been interesting to follow this debate. We have heard of the lack of follow-up by the Ministry of Agriculture on compensation for those deprived of the possibility of using fur animals, or the importance of the financial contribution for fisheries policy, or the lack of investment in the tourism industry, which is obviously an opportunity for this country that we should exploit better, or the use of forest resources and other themes that have been raised. It's probably the most important departments we have, which are going to provide the value creation on which our welfare society rests. What made me take the floor was the post of the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas. He was engaged in taxes on wealth. There is clearly something that should be discussed from the government parties today. He was concerned about the relationship between Jernia and Biltema and between the Lundeang and Ringnes. It's strange – now we're going to adopt the seventh budget presented by this government, and the government's representatives describe fiscal policy as hopeless. It's now strange in itself. But what I think is very serious is the attempt at deception or the lack of knowledge that the representative expresses, for the truth is that neither Jernia nor Bilthema pay taxes on wealth, neither the Lund sand nor the Rings pay taxes on wealth. No enterprises pay taxes on wealth. Property tax in Norway is a personal tax, so it is not a criminal offence that some people are talking about. It is not mentioned in the penal code, it is stated in the tax law. The reason why Nordics pay taxes is that it should contribute to well-being, and they should have their children at school, they should have their parents at the institution when they get old, etc. So it's not intellectually reasonable. The second thing that the representative Eidem Løvaas was concerned about – and the representative Reiten recently – was trying to scare people with the Workers' Party's position on the EEA Agreement. I can make that clear: it's safe. A government that we're going to run is going to be in charge of the EEA Agreement. Yes, in fact, when we talk about the Norwegian model and all the attacks that the current government has on the Norwegian model, there is one element in the Norwegian model that perhaps others have challenged more, and that is precisely the possibility of international trade in one of Europe's most export-dependent countries. No, they can take it easy. The Workers' Party is entirely in favour of the EEA Agreement, in line with the members of the Joint Confederation, in line with the National Assembly of the Joint Confederation and in line with the voters of the Centre Party. They can trust that we're going to be on the EEA Agreement. Everything else is just horrors for which there is no basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3560	There have been many contributions today from different batches to the desire to bring up the business and investment. That is why I urge that next year we adopt a much more offensive package in industry and business. We have made an important contribution by the Workers' Party to increasing investment in a wide range of areas, and are embarking on a billion stakes. But we're going to go on, and we hope to get more parties with us. On Saturday, there was an interesting article in the Evening Post that went on the great geographical differences in many countries. What happens when a loses business, housing and value creation in other parts of the country is that it will also affect the prospects for all countries overall, whether in Europe or in other Western countries. Then I want to make a little comment, because that's how our country has become more oil dependent in recent years. There is a larger deficit in trade with the rest of the world than it has ever been. Last year we were down to negative 250,000 million. kr, and it looks like we're going to set a record this year. The reason why the difference between exports and imports is so important is that it is what has helped to finance the welfare of the country in the longer term. Many southern European countries were in trouble with the need to finance well-being over time through borrowing. In Norway, we avoid this because of a government budget line called contributions from the oil fund. But that's what's at the heart of the transition, that we're going to avoid getting into that tight as oil revenue gradually shrinks. That is why we need much stronger efforts, and then they count, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen was in the process, the concrete efforts, whether they be fishing ports or leadership grants, whether there are measures to build bridges in three to raise value creation while we are spending money on the transport project. All major or minor matters are important, and then I think that if the three ministers who are in the Chamber today can add a little extra gear, at least we from the opposition will help to raise these important budgets. They can't be at the level they're at now if we're going to have well-being to live off tomorrow and in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3573	It was said from the speaker's chair by the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen that I had not responded to an invitation. I actually responded to that invitation, but I couldn't meet myself. I sent my State Secretary to that meeting in the department together with both the Fur Animal Team and the Fur Animal Battle. Both of them met with my State Secretary. I was rapporteur from 2007 to 2013. I had a lot of meetings in the department. I did not then experience meeting the Council of State directly, unfortunately, either from the Workers' Party, but I had a great deal of understanding that even when I was going to be the rapporteur, I couldn't do it because the Council of State had other things to do. It's not about the willingness to do it, but I just sent the State Secretary because I thought the meeting was so important. So I want to hit a blow for Sand Tread articles about the use of wood in particular, and the use of wood. That's where I totally support him. This means that we have also included in the agricultural agreement more use of three, because we think it is important. So we're kind of going to introduce those who choose to build in trees in agriculture. One sees great opportunities to use it also in municipalities, I think, by being wise in the way of planning for municipal construction. I think the same thing about bridges and transportation – it's a great potential. It's also recoverable, so it's also good for the climate. Besides that we both plant and use forests, we also bind carbon. I'm in on that, and I'm in favour of it. It also means that we have been busy with logging and logging, precisely because we see that there is an industry we need in our country, and we need to use even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3582	More district policy will reverse development and increase value creation in North Norway by 20 billion. In the future, according to the NHO report. I hear that the representative of Skkelstad does not regret that Nordland receives nearly 500 million. kr less. But cuts in transfers lead to cuts in the service offer, cuts in ferries, on boat routes, on bus routes, on dental services, cut in the line offers in high school. And it's true that cuts in services are very difficult for the Center Party, because we're the clearest counter-power to government centralization policy. In fact, we want more district policy. The centre party will not centralise public jobs and services. We need this interaction between the public and the rest of the business community to take out the value creation across the country. There has been talk of seafood and fisheries policy today. It is important to get the goods from the coast to the market. This will include, inter alia: say we need more money for county roads. The government's hundreds of millions to major commercial routes are so small that the first time I heard this amount, I thought it was the start of the amount that Nordland was going to get. It would have been a little bit of a start. But that was the amount that all of Norway was going to share. The Center Party wants 1 billion. kr as a start to the county road. It's in our budget. Coastal to market: fishing ports are also important. I heard the representative Strifeldt mention the fishing ports in particular. In fact, none of the northernmost states, Trendelag or Møre and Romsdal want to sign this agreement, because this reform is totally underfunded. Actually, 75 pst. of the fishing ports located within the NTP in North Norway. The four-five northernmost counties add up to 120 million. kr for sharing in order to take over the port responsibility. It's not the world's thing when you know that Nordland has investments for over 1 billion. kr. Troms and Finnmark have investments of 1 billion. kr. Then it becomes very weak to decorate with the means of design.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3591	I note that in the absence of good arguments for my own policy, representatives from the government parties try to frighten the views of the Centre Party on the EEA Agreement. When we got the EEA agreement 25 years ago, there were 12 EU Member States. Perhaps then, based on the arguments put forward by the government parties, one should expect that the proportion of Norwegian exports going to those countries had increased. But the true opposite has happened. The proportion of Norwegian exports to those countries has been reduced. Yes, Norwegian exports in the market have increased, but Norwegian exports to some other areas in the world have increased even more, both because we have important international driving rules through the World Trade Organisation and because Norway has concluded trade agreements with a number of countries in the world through EFTA, which has helped us to develop a market for Norwegian exports. When one hears the praises of the EEA Agreement, one would think that countries by country in the world were in line to join the EEA Agreement. But after Norway became a member of the EEA Agreement – how many countries in the world have become members of the EEA? Absolutely not a single country. But there are many countries that conclude trade agreements with the EU. Only in the last five years have 16 new countries concluded trade agreements with the EU. But none of the countries that have opted for the EEA Agreement. There are countries that have provided better conditions for trade with the EU, but at the same time have been concerned that the EEA model is an unwise model. We must both provide good conditions for trade and make sure to be masters of our own house. We need to be able to manage our own district policy, our own energy policy and our own industrial policy – important framework conditions for both the people and business in Norway. That's why we have to do it as, among other things. The Joint Undertaking has called for an analysis of alternatives to the EEA Agreement at its national meeting, because we see how the EEA Agreement currently intervenes in important areas. It concerns Norwegian freedom of action and industrial and energy policy, but also the Norwegian labour market. Yes, we're going to have international cooperation, and we're going to have international trade, we're going to strengthen international trade, but at the same time we have to make sure to be masters in our own house. That is why we need to ensure a new and better agreement with the EU, which is to be negotiated as an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3602	I want to link some comments to Arne Nävra's article about this organization support. First of all, when it concerns NOAH, it's no more dramatic what the Center Party has proposed than what was the state when SV and the Center Party put together. Then the NOAH got zero dollars. It is the Progress Party that has argued that NOAH – for animal rights – is being granted State aid. One should be careful to refer to someone who has said what in a setting, but I feel that the representative Nävring added me the honor of having carried this in the pen. I can say that I should have wanted that, but I think that the committee is obviously very good at what one has done. And there has to be a limit: will it be a right for the «freeing of animals» front to receive support from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? Is that, for example? Ministry of Health and Welfare's obligation to finance vaccine resistance? No, I don't mean that, I mean it's allowed to set some conditions. And one will not frown and dispel the freedom of expression if one does not receive support from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. There is no violation of human rights to give support to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. But I also want to encourage the Council of State, when going through these guidelines, to focus on whether the organisations are democratically governed, and to pay particular attention to whether they have members, what I think is important. And so I want more support for 4H and less for NOAH. There can't be any particular controversy. So a little comment on the replacement of fur animals: the representative Skelstad tried on a frenzy that the Senter Party has not added compensation for the feeding of fur animals to our alternative budget. I'm pretty sure that if we had done that, the same representative would have claimed that we had agreed to shut down fur nutrition since we had added compensation to the scheme. But now I think the government party must know the moral responsibility they have; we need to know what, for example. the tax means up there. It must be that the Storting takes responsibility, takes moral responsibility and ensures what I believe they are all, most of my mind is perfectly obvious, that no one should be financially injured because someone is sacrificing them to get the Left into the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3614	I got some comments, and of course they have to be answered. First, to the Minister of Fisheries, who is very pleased with his own work in terms of control and taking what is happening seriously. I would be careful to be so satisfied with everything you do, and to let that be the first answer when you get criticism. A very short time ago, we were presented with a NOU on fisheries control. It is concluded that control of illegal fishing fails at all stages. There is little or no control, and there is a high likelihood that operators engaged in the illegal marketing of fish will be able to compete against legal fishermen and companies. I would have spent a little more time taking on the challenges that the industry faces, and that we all face. If you can't deal with the serious concerns that are coming, I'm not sure if you can do anything about the problems. I think more than coffee is needed in the Fisheries Minister's office to solve these challenges. The representative Ebbesen was concerned that we should not talk down the industry and development in the continent that we have in common, North Norway. I would like to remind the representative that there is not exactly a hurrah vote in North Norway for the government – nor for the party that the representative represents – and for good reason. For example, regional development funds, which are very important tools, are almost no longer available. It is to a large extent the means by which the municipalities had municipal food funds. I want to say that it might only be in this room that a representative from the Right can clapp on his chest and be satisfied with the North Norway bet, because in North Norway it really doesn't clapp. To the representative of Reiten: I am proud of the story the Labour Party has been involved in leading, including in the field of fisheries policy. As far as the EEA Agreement is concerned, many strawmen can be made around the Labour Party's policy, but that is no longer true. We are committed to the EEA Agreement. This is also interesting that the representative, Reiten, spoke yesterday about the management grant. What's in the Fiskeribladet is: ‘There is hardly enough money in the ‘receipts of illegal fishing’ of the fish sales teams to finance both future fishing controls and management grants. It is not possible to spend the same money twice." [[...]] Minister of Fisheries Nesvik says we should have leadership grants, but the facts are: Trust Steinar Reiten. You can't spend money twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3632	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3637	It is true that two proposals have been made for the use of withdrawn funds – to finance leadership grants and to finance enhanced control. In that case, the parties to the Government must look at it jointly, see whether the funds are available and, where appropriate, make the necessary priorities. Furthermore, it is very good to hear that the Workers' Party is so clear in its support for the EEA Agreement and guarantees that it will continue. But the realities are still clear: if we base today's poll on what can be the election result in 2021, it is an overwhelming majority on the side of the line of the Workers' Party, at least to renegotiate the EEA Agreement and to replace it with anything else. There are realities that the Workers' Party has to deal with, and we're all very excited about how the election campaign in 2021 is going to be at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3644	First of all to the representative Pollestad: I did not give the centre party the credit for the comment I referred to. I think that was a sort of accident – that some representatives have not pulled out of the common comment that was there. I do not know who proposed it, whether it was from the government team or a committee comment written by the rapporteur. I don't know, because I'm not on the committee. I still think it was an accident. That's how good I think about people. Then I want to make a small point from my old experience as a film producer. Then I think maybe the Minister of Economic Affairs should listen a little bit, because I want the Minister of Economic Affairs to have a little chat with the Minister of Culture, and that is tourism. I expect most people to know about the incentive scheme for feature films – that we're going to have foreign feature film companies in Norway to use Norwegian facilities, Norwegian surroundings, and that get a lot of support for it. Everyone remembers the matter around the snowman, I think, which was to be filmed in Norway. It was given quite a lot of millions to it, with more or less lucky outcomes. This applies, for example: how the Preike chair was used as a backdrop, and how it was marketed. But what I wanted to say is that these incentive schemes are very much about attracting foreign tourists to Norway. Then my big question is, why not think about incentive schemes that make the Norwegians actually stay in Norway? It should be a nearby wish, a nearby and interesting question. I took it up, in my old life, with Innovation Norway, and I think maybe this should have been re-opened to see what opportunities you have, for example. in the case of television programmes. Very often, there are documentaries that make people see things from Norway, which create interest in being in Norway, to travel in Norway — even non-residents if good production goes out. I don't know if the majority in the room know about it, but it was actually Joanna Lumley with his northern lights program that created the great interest in winter tourism in North Norway. That's how it started, and then the whale came and one after the other. But that was the beginning to a great extent. What I want from the Minister of Industry is that he takes a small talk with the Minister of Culture and sees whether there are opportunities for some support schemes for production in Norway that are interesting for the marketing of Norway — in Norway — but also for foreigners if that is good enough. I am fully aware of the problem of the separation between the stock exchange and the cathedral. It's obvious. But there may be schemes that could somehow market Norway, which makes the Nordics stay here in the country. It would have been a nice bonus for such programs. I'll recommend it, and then we'll see if it can be such a conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3657	It is hopefully approaching the end of this debate, which has been a little strange. I'm going to start with something I initially think is positive, and it was the Strifeldt of the Advance Party, who said in the reply that the last words in the fur animal debate were probably not said. I really hope that the Progress Party can once and for all have power and impact in the government to actually influence the regulation that is now in force, because it will be infinitely painful and evil for the people affected by the arrangement that is in that regulation. The second is that one was also open to want to ensure Norwegian salary and working conditions for Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian pedestals and in Norwegian waters. If they get through to it, that's good. What surprised me in the debate, on the other hand, was the Right, who is trying to make this into a debate on the wealth tax. There is no batch that talks more about the property tax and has done less to actually remove it than the Right. The cheap rhetoric must be stopped while closing their eyes and applauding the CO 2 tax and the removal of exemptions for a number of industrial enterprises. The Minister of Industry leans on a note from the financial situation, which says: ‘The majority are asked by the government to assess whether there are regulatory possibilities for exempting CO 2 tax activities subject to allowances for natural gas, etc.’.» It should have been investigated long before it was implemented by the government, as long as the climate agreement makes it clear that dual instruments are not to be implemented or should at least be avoided. There's a strange input from the Right in this debate. To the left – trying to appear like a green party in a dark blue government – I would say that there is something weakly argued that this means very big changes in climate challenges or in greenhouse gas emission reductions, and there should have been far stronger instruments in place than that. Kaka may nevertheless take the discussion about leadership grants or not leadership grants. At least it was good to hear that the representative Reiten concludes that the money cannot be used twice. That's good. However, when he repeatedly refers to the Workers' Party and the relationship to the EEA Agreement, I can assure you that the Workers' Party is in favour of the EEA Agreement. We have said that we want to investigate the scope of action, not least to Norwegian workers, in the context of the EEA Agreement. I think that is a very wise approach to an important agreement for Norway. To the representative Nävra: the Workers' Party has not dealt with applications from individual organisations in connection with the nomination. I believe that we have a broad and fine input to support organisations under the Ministry of Agriculture as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3683	As a skilled graphic artist, I guess I should, maybe more than anyone else, know that everything in the papers is not true. I will still quote from the article I referred to in my previous post, where the director of the Fur Animal Feed Team states: «We have invited Oluk Bollestad to Sirevåg, but have not received an answer. [[KrF]] We think that is very special». I choose to believe that the director of the Fur feed team is telling the truth, but what surprises me a little bit is that when the Council of State takes the word, it is to correct me and not to explain why these types of farms have not received any signs of conversion. I'm not going to go any further than that, but I just want to say that I don't know if the representative Reten is to trust, but I know we can trust that he will continue to scare the voters with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3693	I really didn't think I would take the floor in this debate, but I sat and listened to it in the office and was kind of called to say something. There is no doubt that in the part of the country I represent, North Norway, industry is doing pretty well, but there are also major challenges. Only in the last three months has Nordland lost 700 inhabitants. There has been no such decline in the country since 1997. It's a warning. Even though things are going well in some areas, there are things that make you have to see this in its entirety. The three ministers sitting here represent important areas in the region, whether it be fisheries, agriculture or industry, for things are interrelated. I want to start with fishing. This is not the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries, but it is important for this: I note that fishing ports are now being thrown out of transport and into the counties. We must follow this closely, because there will be major challenges when it does not come with funds. I just want to mention it. Otherwise, it is also linked, both the economy of the municipalities and the economy of the counties are important in terms of nutrient growth. Obviously, when Nordland states have to cut their frames by nearly 500 million. kr, it is bad enough, but when one in addition takes away all regional development funds from the counties, it will be important in all these areas. At least that won't help and slow it down if the youth leaves the country, and I assume that none of us in this room want to happen. I register that someone is trying to make it an EEA case with regard to the Workers' Party. I'm from Northland. There we know how important the EEA Agreement is, so no one should at least be in doubt about what the Workers' Party thinks there, even if someone is trying to play that case up. So to the cutters that are proposed for Investinor. I was sitting at the airport in Bodø today, a little late. Then a nutritionist came to me and wondered where I was going. I said I was on my way to Stortinget. Yes, he said, then you can bring a message to Stortinget: What we lack as investors and entrepreneurs is getting funds with us in that phase when we're going to start up. The Minister of Fisheries knows that man well, because I think he's going to open up his company in Mo in Rana, TAG Sensors, in February. He said the toughest time was the first two years – to be able to raise capital. He had to get out of the country to get it. When he first got it, he succeeded. But most of his business, which he is going to establish in Mo in Rana, is with foreign owners, because there was no capital to get in Norway. We have to take those signals with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3708	I had initially not intended to take the word several times, but there came a little hint from the representative Dag Terje Andersen about the lack of intellectual honesty, so I thought I would clean it up. I'll get back to that. The representative of Aasland thought it was strange that this had become a debate on property taxes. Well, first of all, we've debated a lot differently. But it's no wonder, because the Workers' Party has proposed to increase it quite dramatically, along with its other red-green friends of different sizes. Obviously, it's not what business needs now, it's not what business needs. So there's going to be a debate about something the Workers' Party wants to increase quite dramatically, isn't weird at all. And then the representative, Andersen, said that I did not understand that property tax is something the owner pays – it is not something the company pays. No, I know that perfectly well. But we in the Right like to see the relationship between ownership and business, and we want Norwegian ownership, and we want those who own a business to not have to take out of the business this year with deficits to pay a property tax that they compete with to avoid. That's the injustice and the punishment you get to be the Norwegian owner, we're referring to. It is linked to who owns an enterprise. Then I am pleased with the EEA guarantee of the Workers' Party. There is no reason to doubt it either. What's cause for doubt is whether they want to have large enough muscles in a government cooperation to make this happen. The centre party took the floor to the representative Geelsvik, who said that there was no problem for the country to reach agreements with the EU, because there were many countries – I think there were 16 countries – that had done so. It is very nice to have a trade agreement with the EU, but what about the other three freedoms? What about the free flow of capital and the movement of persons and services, which is also something that will not be mentioned, and which these 16 countries have not actually got into their agreements? The EEA Agreement is much more than just a trade agreement. We're going to have to suspend it, no matter what the Center Party says. Finally, some comments that also go to the Centre Party, which provided an alternative budget with what they called a business-friendly tax regime. That's where they lower the right fees by 3.8 billion. NOK, but they're increasing the taxes by $6.6 billion. kr. There will also be a little more expensive alcohol with the Center Party budget, but it will be compensated, because when you go to Sweden to do more, you have at least cheaper petrol and diesel on the road. Then I'm going to fix an error in the line exchange between the representative of the Central Party Pollestad and the representative of the Right, Ebbesen, where the Central Party said they wouldn't put down the Election Directorate, they just wanted to move the function to Oslo. Well, they're going to drop the Elections Directorate and want the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to take over that function – that is, political control over free elections, as we were warned by international councils when there were election observers in Norway. It is clear that the International Council does not always sound good in the Central Party, but it may also be good to remind the Central Party that this was a Central Party initiative under the then Minister Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3725	It has been a bit of a strange debate, I think many thought. The large lines of Norwegian industrial policy have barely come into play. Some have tried to make this an EEA debate – far outside the state budget – but have done well enough. What's a little special about this entrance is that one is so reluctant to look at the alternatives that might be a better deal for Norway. One can look at countries that have made other agreements with the EU and get better out of it. South Korea, for example have a better agreement. Don't you think about it? No, we're not going to look at that. We're going to stick to the EEA Agreement, no matter what. That's special. It has been interesting to follow along on the Left, which is in a government that stands for about the opposite of what the Left represents – at least what they have said they represent: an environmentally friendly party, occupied with liberal values. Here we have a government budget where one at all is unable to meet the climate goals that Norway has. 12 pst. Cut by 2030 is what one controls, in a situation where one should be up to 40 pst. GHG emissions cut. Right-wing wants to make this a matter of wealth taxes, as if there has ever been a question of business policy. Property taxes have never generated new jobs. That's what the government says. The government's own studies show it. If one is engaged in industry, it is not the wealth tax road, but if one is engaged in redistribution, then wealth tax is the way to go. One should work on the demand page, and the government has not delivered it. In fact, SV has provided a budget with a budget of more than 1.3 billion. kr greater than the government has supplied. Chew it! What kind of demand policy is this from the government if they want to create growth in any way? So to the Progress Party, which is going to have all the honor to speak up for fish in its main post. Good, but this is a government that has made sure that more frozen fish are handled. More fish go out of the country. There is a concentration of ownership on the vessel, and the losers are home to the spokesperson himself: Finnmark. They're mostly losing to the government's policy. We have a very widespread discussion in which the long lines of Norwegian industrial policy are very small. What's the plan of the government for us to get a green shift? What is the plan for us to transform Norwegian business and economics into the new era? There is no sign of it in the budget at all. Rather, we are heading towards increased emissions in the future in time, evened out with the measurements we are going to achieve. There is no green shift in sight, so SV has presented its plan. Now we expect the government to come up with an idea soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3738	The values of natural resources are distributed throughout the country, and then the investment must ensure that we use the whole country. Enterprises and jobs around the country keep moving and contribute to the creation of value added. No one in the debate has disagreed on this, but I would like to answer some of the criticism of the Central Party's options. National and local ownership is an important part of the solution, without government parties appearing to have taken this inward. In the government, there is greater sympathy for European interests than for Norwegians. Over six years, the government has centralised jobs, services, financial resources, power and influence. In the public sector, the government has in part proposed and achieved the impact of centralising reforms in the municipal sector, the hospital sector, the higher education sector, the police, the tax system and the prison system. The districts are drained for jobs, welfare services and residents. Local banks should also have capital requirements that provide a framework for values to be created and managed in smaller places, rather than the government proposes. Proximity to decisions contributes to a better understanding of the consequences. This selects the government to ignore. Short-term renewable energy is an enormous competitive advantage and a good thing for citizens and businesses, but EU interests are more important than Norwegians, need to know. So the distance between the government's entrance and the center party's entrance is huge when it comes to taxes and taxes. Where we want to open up more activity and not charge over a low shoe, the government is quick to impose anti-business charges overnight. The fact that the government parties do not see the difference in taxing a profit and taxing all the activity is bad. During this period, the government has provided district industries, such as agriculture, transport industries and fishing industries, targeted tax incentives. The Minister of Agriculture is responsible for Norway’s first ban on nutrition and for shutting down fur animals — an industry that has contributed to the enormous value creation and exploitation of waste. It will also have reduced the electricity charge for agriculture, exemptions from road insurance charges for tractors, increased depreciation of operating resources and a number of other measures contributing to the strengthening of Norwegian business life throughout the country – 10 billion. kr in a green investment company, investment in the forestry industry and the maritime industry, and investment in agricultural research and climate funds are also important for the value creation of one of the main rural industries. Reduced taxes benefit everyone and the whole country – for jobs and value creation near people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3747	The Minister of Fisheries believes – not surprisingly – that Norway should invest in aquaculture, and I think that is great. It's amazing that we've passed 100 billion. kr in year. At the same time, the Council of State mentions that this should be done while we take better care of the sea, and that is extra joyous. The Council of State mentions new technologies and new knowledge as important areas of activity and the advantage of future developments in Norway, and at the same time states that production needs to be more sustainable and done in an environmentally sound way, and that is something we fully support. Nevertheless, the Council of State presents this as if it were only going to happen in the future, even though we know that there are proven methods and equipment and different solutions that are both environmentally sound and sustainable, compared to some of the challenges facing traditional farming. The Nordic National Councils’ own party has called for better organisation of innovative nutritionists who have solved the challenge of salmon and escape, and who can at the same time show strongly reduced mortality in fish. We also know that waste from fish can be collected and recycled into energy in different forms. But if we don't allow companies using new technologies to evolve and ensure that the growth of aquaculture is more sustainable, we're at risk of them moving out of the country, and that's not what we deserve. There will be a significant loss for our industry in many areas, not least in local jobs throughout the country. The Government and the Council of State must take action and ensure that breeders who use new technologies to protect the environment and fish welfare, other than those we have seen in the past, are given the opportunity to create growth and jobs through the award of a given number of concessions with stricter requirements and at a strongly reduced price. Several government parties at state level have proposed this. The left believes that 50 such environmental concessions should be awarded. Land-based facilities need, as you know, no concession. We therefore believe that environmental concessions, or what one wants to call them, at sea, must be very reasonable, so that growth will happen there. In response and in debates, the Council of State has previously referred to the Report. Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Agency for the Development of Vocational Training (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. especially environmentally friendly technology, which this is about, is less topical. But it's been a few years since that message came. There has been a strong development since then, and we know that this can work. Traffic lighting alone does not solve the lice problem; green areas are likely to become more yellow or red when the growth rate increases faster than in the past. Therefore, it would be right to advocate environmentally friendly technology as a precondition for prequalification, for example. 50 concessions, and there's probably some government support for both in their own ranks, at the opposition and in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3759	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3764	I would have liked to take the floor several times in this debate, if not more to establish what there was so much doubt: can we trust the representative of Reiten? I want to establish that we can trust the representative, and that he is always well-forbidden and has read his file. When the representative calls for more EEA enthusiasm in the opposition, he knows what he has to do if he wants to achieve it. These debates may seem to circle, but that's why I want to make a comment that things that have been discussed before are now reality. Let me take care of good trade. There have been many rounds here – now we are dealing with the law. So we can choose to believe that these debates have a purpose. I would like to thank the Committee for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3771	I could not help myself when several representatives from the government parties go up and say that a desire for predictability for business and business – the majority who have provided for the introduction of a historical ban on nutrition where a person takes the livelihood from a number of fur farmers around Norway, and where, after repeated debates in the main hall, there is still no clear explanation of the kind of compensation it should be, and the extent. It's a little unbelievable. And for framework conditions and charges: one speaks nicely of having a stable and good framework. Yes, it is quite incredible, from a majority who have made it their working method of building the country with ever-increasing fees. There have been record high charges in Norway – according to the Minister of Finance, 6.3 billion. the increase in taxes by this majority. It is taxes that affect people and businesses throughout Norway. Many of the charges have come without prior notice, without sufficient investigation and without dialogue with those concerned, and then one in retrospect with an investigation shall try to look at the scheme at the charges in order not to hit as hard as they initially did. An example is the charge on non-alcoholic beverages, where an increase in charges by over 40 pst. overnight, which one would come back again with an investigation of. That investigation was to cover parts of the fee, and now one in the State budget is going to conclude that the fee increase should remain unchanged. Despite the fact that a number of traditional enterprises in Norway, breweries, toiling and experiencing red figures and having to go to redundancies, a fee increase remains. The representative of Skkelstad is here talking about travel conditions. The majority of whom he is part has provided for an increase in VAT which affects travel life by 50 pst. Similarly on transport: not only the fuel taxes have increased and the centre lot is occupied by. The charges related to the bus, train, tram, taxi and aircraft have also increased. It's pretty much only if you're going to walk or ride that you don't have to pay increased fees by this majority. And to the last, increased CO2 taxes that affect the industry: yes, then before making a decision in this room, one has to make sure to clarify what the device should be like. In other words, companies are in strong competition with foreign players, which now have to prepare for increased overnight charges without having been in sufficient dialogue. It's an unwise business policy, and it's very unpredictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3786	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Case No. 4-8 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3848	The cases are the second reading of laws and relate to the legislative decisions of 10–14. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3862	Before the Storting goes to voting, there are some permissive requests to be dealt with. The representative Hanne Dyveke Sweets, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group there is an application for the amendment of Liv Kari Eskeland’s leave to take effect from 9 December until 13 December; by the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From 1st alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from the meeting of the representative of Une Bastholm on 10 December for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For Hordaland: Sigurd Hille 9 December-13. December For Oslo: Per Espen Stoknes 9 December and 11 December and until further notice and Kristoffer Robin Haug 10 December
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3912	Sigurd Hille and Per Espen Stoknes are present and will take the seat. Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3926	A total of 40 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-21, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 22, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 23–25, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 26-30, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 31, from Torleif Hamre on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 32, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 33, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian Party the proposals No 34 to 37, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 38 to 40 from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26–30 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: «The government is asked to wind up the quality-based financing system in health enterprises.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to send the loan application for New Oslo University Hospital in return to Health South-East RHF.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Ullevål hospitals are not sold.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an obligatory plan and to aim that all residents with dementia who have such a need have a daily activity space by 2025.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to base the Health Directorate’s report drawn up in cooperation with the professional communities on the conversion of aid to orthodontics treatment to ensure that children with a clear need for treatment will continue to receive benefits.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e3998	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4003	So let's do that right over here. There are then 81 representatives who have voted against the proposals of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, and 19 who have voted in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–25, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that manual therapists are included in line with the chiropractors in establishing a five-year master’s training.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate an evaluation of Norwegian damages to patients, health complaints and health complaints.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess whether the increased cost of obtaining authorisation results in a socio-economic loss by not using health professionals trained abroad’s competences and labour resources in our common healthcare service, and to further assess the profitability of reducing the cost of obtaining authorisation.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4034	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reinstate the notification scheme in the specialist health service, which was terminated in the spring of 2019.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4051	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to liquidate free treatment choices and return to free hospital choice as well as the use of agreements with non-profit and commercial operators.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4067	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8 and 10-21, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a concrete action plan to improve drug preparedness in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to report annually on the preparation of medicinal products in the country.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose its own sectoral law on water and sewerage.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a notification of potable water supply in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the implementation of a vaccination programme for adults corresponding to the paediatric vaccination programme, as announced in the Medical Products Communication (Report. St. 28 [[2014-2015]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to pay a health-based and differentiated sugar levy that does not create undue distortions of competition or is at the expense of turnover in Norway and Norwegian business.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and to promote the necessary proposals in order to ensure that the right to post-protection is enshrined in the law.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that specialist health services are exempted from flat cheese requirements in the government’s budget proposal for 2021 – if the government continues with the ABE reform’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to establish concrete and measurable requirements for a higher proportion of full-time jobs in health establishments.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all health enterprises have schemes with their own temporary work pool/employee with permanent staff.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals generally employ people in permanent positions in order to ensure their competence and security.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government’s proposal for a State budget for 2021 calls for the end of the use of input-driven funding in mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the system of neutral VAT in healthcare companies in connection with the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking that diagnosed patients also be included in an overall course of treatment for musculoskeletal disorders.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation and to return appropriately to Stortinget with measures ensuring a real escalation of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation offer.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that specialised rehabilitation in the specialist health service is maintained and not further reduced. Reduction of other rehabilitation in hospitals shall not take place until it can be demonstrated that the corresponding services are built up in the municipalities.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of a visual register in Norway.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the establishment of the health management service centre, including the pricing of services, the development of expenditure, the transaction costs of management and enterprises, and the appropriateness of the service transfer as a whole. Further strengthening of Norsk Healthnet SF should not take place until it is clear whether the establishment of an administrative service centre has been evaluated as cost-effective and socio-economically viable.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to carry out a dietary study to assess whether stockings for people with diabetes should be introduced on a blue prescription.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include the employee side of the public body to investigate the BPA scheme.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4183	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the State assumes the air ambulance service and that the contract between the HF Air ambulance service and Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance is terminated as a result of the failure of the company to provide air ambulance standby under the contract.’; The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4200	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests to ensure the preparedness of the air ambulance service in accordance with the quality requirements that the operator is obliged to deliver in the contracted contract until the State can take over the operation. The Government is requested to make available the necessary resources for the provision of services from other operators, in addition to the assistance from the Defence Department, to ensure a proper level of security for the service. ‘... The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4219	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the security of air ambulance preparedness across the country, with the necessary measures in the short and long term to create stability and predictability in the service. The five ambulance aeroplanes belonging to the previous operator must, if necessary, be deployed in the service together with the Defender helicopter as immediate action.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4238	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an external independent investigation of the entire air ambulance flight offer and the operator’s change process. In particular, it is necessary to examine the risk that Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance would not be able to provide the necessary preparedness under contract.’;» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4258	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary funds in the revised State Budget 2020 to complete the new Church Hospital and to ensure that Health Nord HF ensures that the Church Hospital is intensively prepared at level 2.’; The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4275	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to carry out a full screening of preparedness throughout Northern Norway, and in particular in Finnmark, as soon as possible, and to take all necessary steps to provide safe emergency services for the population. The supply to Babcock shall be a central element of the review.’;» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4294	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the five ambulances belonging to the former operator be put into service for the purpose of the life and health of the population.’; The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4313	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39 and 40, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to reduce breaches of the health and safety at work law in hospitals and to report back to the Stortinget on what measures have been taken and their effects.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proper reporting of breaches of the Health and Safety at Work Act in hospitals.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e4337	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the right, the party of progress, the left, and the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure continued operation and follow-up of the Centre for the Dignity, which provides continuing training of health professionals in emergency care for the elderly, palliative care for the elderly and the volunteer coordinator in order to ensure continued competence in this field.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7595	Behind the advice is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7614	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party The President noted that proposal No. 4 replaces proposal No. 1 in the settings. Proposal No. 1 is therefore not taken up for voting. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit an investment plan for the Storting to make the planned investments in hospital buildings in Health South-East and to ensure that hospital development in Oslo does not go at the expense of the necessary hospital buildings in Health South-East or in the rest of the country.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7645	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to conduct a full investigation into the preservation of Ullevål Hospital, so that the decision on the future hospital is well-founded and adequately investigated at Ullevål or Gaustad.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7662	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reverse the decision of the Health South-East RHF Business Meeting on 24 June 2016 and to ensure, through a new business meeting, that hospital expansion in Oslo is planned on the basis of the following hospital structure: - The Radium Hospital is maintained as a specialised cancer hospital. Ullevål Hospital is being expanded as a large emergency hospital with trauma centers. Aker Hospital will be a new local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen. - The National Hospital is maintained unchanged for national and regional functions. - In later phases, the functions of the Rikshospitale are gathered at Ullevål." The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7686	Behind the advice is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7700	The working party shall also be behind the recommendation. If it's okay for Stortinget, we'll take the vote again. – In the event that some workers’ party representatives did not vote in favour, they are given the opportunity to do so now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7719	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-13, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 14 and 15, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 16-18, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 20-24, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President stated that proposal 19 was not taken up. The representative of Mr Pollestad has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7741	I draw proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7746	That is proposal No. Nine drawn. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 20–24, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new mastery system for shipping with the aim of minimising greenhouse gas emissions. The scheme shall not entail requirements for the purchase of a new ship and a differentiated grant based on the ship’s scrap value and whether or not the condmation takes place in Norway shall be considered. New arrangements should be put in place from 1 January 2021.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government requests the requirements for offshore supply ships for zero or low-emission solutions from 2025 and zero emissions from 2030. The first hydrogen-powered ship in the supply bay shall be required to be put into service by 2022 at the latest.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all unbundled funds under the Innovation Norway Schemes in 2019 are shifted from petroleum to other industries.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide leadership for the export credit scheme to give priority to support for renewable energy and other industries projects in support of oil and gas projects.’;» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public sample to assess the impact of the introduction and use of new genetic engineering methods in food production. The selection must be broadly composed in order to highlight as many perspectives as possible, to discuss background and to identify the need for new knowledge.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7788	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–18, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to enter into a binding agreement with the aquaculture industry for a minimum of 40 pst. greenhouse gas emission saving from industry by 2030.’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to engage in dialogue with the fishing industry in order to clarify detailed guidelines for the compensation scheme for CO 2 tax in fisheries and to ensure that the scheme provides predictability and does not violate the assumptions made. The system must not prevent the fish from being landed along the coast for processing.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the sale of state forest.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7820	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the spring of 2020, the government is asked to file a case for the Storting on the introduction of emergency storage of food grain in Norway.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7838	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of the Condemnation Scheme for older ships in Norwegian waters with requirements for the ship’s climate and environmental profile.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e7857	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8 and 10-13, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the option tax regime for small start-up enterprises to be reviewed by the government, in cooperation with interested parties, with a view to obtaining an option tax that will work well for start-up enterprises.’ Proposal No. Two sounds. «The government is asked to ensure that public letters of award, circulars, legislation and appropriations contain clear leads to greener purchases and to good pay and working conditions.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, within the framework of the Maritime Directorate, to provide funds for a national maritime safety improvement campaign where volunteering is mobilised along the coast.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the Investinor’s mandate for active direct investment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a temporary top-level financing mechanism under market conditions for short sea shipping through GIEK and Export Credit Norway and return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget with the actual design of such a scheme.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asking not to sell all or part of GIEK Credit Insurance, but to keep it as today.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for food law for the Storting during 2020.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to investigate and propose a possible support scheme for next year’s government budget, which can support innovative exploitation of the land resources that can contribute to increased local activity by natural and wild resources.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to bring proceedings for the Storting to set up a national return facility.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for climate funds for agriculture at the latest in the revised national budget 2020.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Stortinget by the latest in the revised National Budget 2020 on capital injection to establish a small satellite launch base on Andeya.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for urgent action to be taken by the Stortinget on tourist fishing, with an overview of the situation in the industry, and with concrete measures to ensure serious and sustainable tourist fishing.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e12549	Behind the advice is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e12565	Case No. 4-8 is the second reading of legislative acts and concerns legislative acts 10 to 14 inclusive. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-09.ana.ud404e12623	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
