ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e49	Honourable co-representatives! Former proxy Karin Hafstad passed away on 27 May, at 82 years of age. Karin Hafstad represented Right and Oslo on the Stortinget for two periods, from 1973 to 1981. For the first period, she was elected to the Committee on Transport. From 1977 to 1981 she was the Head of the Right fraction of the Administrative Committee and a member of the Extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. She was a war child, in the sense that she grew up in the years during and after the war. From these years she got with her both social and political commitment, even as young as she was. Her father had a packing centre for the prisoners at Grini and the distribution of illegal newspapers in the basement at his hairdressing salon. That made enough sense. Karin Hafstad learned early to speak in congregations. In 1945, just nine years old, she stood on the scene of National Theatre and thanked our Danish and Swedish friends for the soup packages during the war. Such experience helped shape her political commitment. The political racetrack began in Young Right, where she was 17 years old president of the Oslo Young Right School group and in 1965, when she was the only woman, was elected a member of the Central Government. In recognition of her efforts, she was awarded the Gold Medal of the Young Right. She is described as the very social glue in central government, with a distinct sense of humor and a life-giving laugh. Her commitment was far from just party politics. She was the initiator and founder of the friends of Lone Mothers and a champion of democracy and human rights. Following the Soviet invasion of Praha in 1968, she took the initiative of the nationwide action 'Flag for Czechoslovakia'. Karin Hafstad was a city councilman in Oslo from 1967 to 1975, for the last four years elected to the Presidency. Here she was involved in social policy, as a member of the Social Security Council, in the Social Policy Committee and as Chairman of the Housing Committee. She was the head of the Landsförbund Höjrekvinners Landsförbund and a member of the Right Labour Committee and Central Government from 1975 to 1979. After leaving the Stortinget, Karin Hafstad was a member of the Televerkrådet and the Board of Directors of Norwegian Film. For more than 20 years she was an information consultant and later a first consultant in the Directorate of Roads. She never stopped engaging with her former colleagues, among others. as a member of the Board of the Association of former Trustees and for a number of years as Chairman of the Retirement Association of the Directorate of Road. But the family was always what stood Karin Hafstad closest, like mother, voicer and after every grandmother, always concerned that child and granddaughter had it well. We bring peace to Karin Hafstad's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e78	The representatives Per Olaf Lundtigen, Eirik Sivertsen and Åsunn Lyngedal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From the first alternate of Finnmark, Steinar Karlstrøm, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of Mr Ingarill Olsen from 25 to 29 November, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Finnmark, Ragnhild H. Kaski, are convened to meet during the leave period from 26 to 28 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e112	An application for health leave has been submitted by the representative of Bjørna Moxnes on 21 November and by the representative of Gisle Meininger Saudland for welfare leave from 26 November to 5 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Seher Aydar For Western Agder: Theodor Helland
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e143	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e150	On behalf of the representative Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to initiate work on the realization of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e155	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e173	The President will arrange the debate as follows: the allocated speaking time is limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e180	With this in mind, the Presidency presents its position in which it is recommended that the proposal – put forward by the representative of Bjørna Moxnes in Document 8:171 S for 2018-2019 – not be adopted. The proposal for a representative is based on the adoption of a system of review of citizens' proposals for which persons with voting rights in majority voting may submit proposals for consideration in the Stortinget. The proposer shows, among other things: to ensure that schemes for dealing with citizens’ proposals in Norway are in place at municipal and county level. It is further pointed out that a test scheme was introduced in Denmark with citizens’ proposals for the parliament for a period ending in January 2020 and that it has already been decided to extend the scheme. I would like to point out, on behalf of a united presidency, that it follows from the Basic Law § 76 that it is only the government through the King of the Council of State and the representatives of the Trustees who have the right to promote legislative proposals for the Stortinget. In practice, this has also been the basis for proposals for other types of decision making, although in some cases it appears that requests to the Presidency, such as: reports submitted to the Presidency and external enquiries to the Stortinget or the Presidency are referred and dealt with directly under § 39 of the Stortinget Rules of Procedure, without the proposal being submitted to the Stortinget first. The Presidency considers that the proposal put forward may raise questions of principle in relation to the right of proposal as set out in the Constitution. Given the fulfilment of the formal requirements and other criteria laid down, the proposed appeal procedure implies that the person or persons who supports the citizens' proposals are, in effect, entitled to be dealt with by the Stortinget, even if this is done by one or more of its representatives, who may submit citizens' proposals to the Stortinget on behalf of the citizens. A testing scheme as proposed will also, in addition to the principal aspects I just mentioned, require that considerable resources be allocated to the establishment and maintenance of digital solutions and to the practical organisation of the administration of Storting. A single presidency has noted that, in parallel with the present proposal for a representative, a draft constitution has been put forward which deals with the right to make citizens' proposals. In this context, the Presidency demonstrates that this draft Constitution can provide a basis for a broader public debate and a deeper assessment of whether such a mechanism should and should be put in place. In addition, popular participation in democracy is already well taken care of today. Everyone has the full opportunity to address one or more members of the Stortinget to address matters. The Presidency therefore believes that the Storting should wait to decide whether to put in place a system of citizens’ proposals until the proposed constitution is discussed. Otherwise, I refer to the remarks in the vote and recommend with the unanimous recommendation of this presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e195	Good morning! Let me clear out the SV's position first. We are followers of this Red proposal. We think it is a good proposal, it is an important proposal, and it is also a visionary proposal. I mean we're going to go in for this for more fundamental reasons. I believe that it is the duty of the Storting and the big-time representatives to discuss how we can further develop our democracy. It is not the case that democracy is going to be the same yesterday, today and tomorrow. We're always going to look for new ways to develop our democracy. There are still historical changes – new technical solutions, etc. – which means that a living government must be dynamic and must change over time. We will also show that there have been recent polls showing that people lack confidence in politicians. There might be a lot of reasons for that, but we shouldn't ignore that one of the reasons is that very many people experience a great deal of distance between what they're concerned about, and the ability to get this promoted in a political context. We also have to look at this in a slightly larger, perhaps international, perspective. From the 1990s onward, after the fall of the Wall and the withdrawal of communism, we have experienced a tremendous progress in democracy around the world, and it has been a positive development for 20 years. And then over the last few years, we've seen some decline. Several democracies, including in Europe, are challenged in many areas, and we can refer to large countries such as Brazil, the Philippines and, in part, the United States, where democratic solutions are challenged. Then we have to ask ourselves: do we, in small, well-functioning Norway, also have an international obligation to show ourselves and further develop our democracy in time and in line with history? I think that is absolutely crucial. So we're going to support this proposal, but I think maybe Red has been something too detailed in the design of it. I think it's been a little tactical bomb, because Red has invited the presidency in his debate to look at the technical, implementing solutions in the proposal, and they can therefore easily reject it. The Presidency's remarks and position are exposed to visions. It is only formalistic, and it is a counter-argument to the concrete solutions advocated by Red. SV is still going to support the proposal, even though I had hoped that Red had not been so detailed in the design, because then I think the proposal had been stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e208	This year we mark a hundred years with the right to vote for everyone. Red got a total rise on this marker. Here we have come through the struggle for a society with equal and strong rights for all and not just for the economic and political elite. Today, the struggle is not about whether or not we should have a vote, but about ensuring the right to vote and the content and value of democracy. The presidency’s view is that ‘the popular participation in democracy today is well maintained.’ However, as mentioned, yesterday’s survey of the population came in in 2019, which shows that more and more people are saying they are trying to influence the politicians and the decisions of the Storting, but the impression that policymakers are listening to the people’s views and the confidence that policymakers are working for the best of the population, dolls. Although electoral participation is still high, confidence in democracy is falling. We want to use the voting anniversary to reverse this. We will give citizens the opportunity to make proposals that Stortinget has to decide on – citizens’ proposals. The Presidency refers to questions of the right of proposal raised by the Constitution and that a test scheme will require resources. However, neither the Basic Law nor the Storting Rules of Procedure directly prevent anyone other than the Storting or the Government from submitting proposals which the Storting may decide to deal with. The proposal also entrusts the Presidency with the establishment of a probationary system with practical sound procedures. In Norway, we have community proposals at municipal and county level. In Denmark, they have had a single arrangement with citizens’ proposals in Folketinget since 2018. If we look at the experience, the experience from Denmark is positive. The popular commitment is great without overloading or neglecting Parliament. The Presidency further points out that the Constitutional Bill on Citizens’ Proposals, which will be discussed after the election in 2021, can provide a wider public debate and assessment of such a scheme. So we hope so. By adopting a test system with citizens' proposals, the process could already come to a successful conclusion to the anniversary of the voting rights, but unless the established parties come to a better conclusion, we find that we are looking forward to the next round. Red takes the fight to extend democracy to the next major period. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e228	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e245	First, thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this matter, which deals with consent to include an EU Regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions in the EEA Agreement. It is an overall committee which recommends that the Storting approves the inclusion of the regulation. I would like to make a brief explanation of the main points of the matter. The decision to include the Regulation was taken in the EEA Committee in February of this year, when with the usual reservation on the approval of the Stortinge. The consent of the majority to the act is necessary, in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The Regulation concerns the regulation of interchange fees, which introduces a maximum limit for such fees for the use of both debit and credit cards. However, each country will be free to set lower charges than the maximum level and subject to certain conditions allow payment service providers of that type to charge a fixed amount per transaction. However, it is worth noting that additional charges for the use of payment cards are no longer allowed, such as: charges for the purchase of air travel, which most people are currently making online. Furthermore, rules on commercial practices are provided, inter alia: rules on the obligation to provide information on fees for different payment cards and trade marks. As early as 2016, Norway established national rules through a regulation on interchange fees, which is essentially in line with EU regulations. However, there is now also a requirement for a non-judicial dispute resolution body in the Member States. With regard to the rules governing such a dispute resolution body, we will deal with this in more detail later today, Innst. 35 L for 2019-2020, cf. Prop. 128 L for 2018-2019, on various amendments to the Financial Enterprise Act, etc., proposing the subject of the Financial Complaint as an appropriate body in this way, possibly through an extended mandate. The main objective of the Regulation is to ensure cost-effectiveness, to provide lower costs for customers through the use of payment cards and to provide good competitive conditions and innovation in this area. The maximum level of charges for the use of payment cards is thus similar in the EEA territory, in the same way that the competition rules and regulatory framework are also equal within the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e262	As the rapporteur pointed out, rules in Norway, which largely comply with this Regulation, have already been introduced by a regulation more than three years ago. What should thus be a major question for Stortingen to ask is why it is important to include these rules in the EEA Agreement. What's an extra by including it in the EEA Agreement and binding us through the EEA on it? It cannot be that we in Stortinget only adopt new rules on autopilot – that must be justified. Or is the reason that just it comes from the EU, is that okay? Or if that's not right, should we in any case accept it because it comes from the EU? What I miss in a lot of cases, including this case, is a more detailed reason why a choice to introduce legislation through the EEA Agreement, and what kind of consequences it will have for consumers, for payees and for payment service providers. When the case rapporteur here points out that in some areas there is a difference between the existing regulation and what is contained in the regulation relating to the non-judicial dispute resolution body, I would also have expected that there would have been a more detailed discussion in the matter, but also from the case rapporteur on why it makes sense to introduce this, and what kind of consequences, what kind of new administrative burdens, which could, for example, come about as a result of it. I note that the case rapporteur refers to a later case, and that one can extend the mandate to the Finansklagennende, but all the time when we deal with matters in Stortinget, we need to have a concrete assessment in each case of the appropriateness, of the consequences for Norwegian interests, of the consequences of new burdens that one can impose on different actors in Norwegian society. But on the basis of an overall assessment, we in the Centre Party on this matter choose to support the recommendation and join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e271	I suspect that the representative Geelsvik really knows why we are implementing this in the EEA Agreement, but he wants further justification. Now there's a reason, which is also referred to in the setting, and I can quote it: ‘Inclusion in the EEA Agreement and implementation of the Regulation are necessary in order to ensure a level playing field and equality within the regulatory framework, by creating a single set of rules throughout the EEA. The inclusion of the Regulation in the EEA Agreement will also facilitate the continuation of the homogeneity of EEA legislation in line with the objectives of the EEA Agreement.» It is therefore not sufficient that the regulation laid down by the Ministry of Finance is broadly in line with the regulation. It is part of the quite comprehensive EU legislation that has been put in place to ensure a stronger control of the financial industry after the financial crisis for some time. I think we should all be happy about that. The same question arises as regards the Central Party and Red also in the next case, the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Regulation on benchmarks. The parties cannot see that: ‘it is neither necessary nor acceptable to relinquish the sovereignty of the EU’s financial supervision’; [[...]] It is stated in the comments. Now it is formally ESA to which sovereignty is abdicated, but it seems more frightening with the EU. A majority in this Chamber has decided that the Norwegian financial industry should also be able to participate in the internal market. It is then necessary that we include this legislation in the EEA Agreement. In fact, it is in Norwegian interest that our financial industry can operate in the internal market within the same regulatory framework as the financial industries of other countries. Now, neither the Centre Party nor Red's representatives are taking my words for good fish in this way, so let me quote from a report that No to the EU has led Menon to make, analysing the differences between the EEA Agreement and a traditional trade agreement. Concerning the financial industry, Menon writes: ‘This industry is highly vulnerable to withdrawal from the EEA Agreement as conditions for serving the European market are heavily regulated by the EEA Agreement. The industry is facing a number of mutual recognition schemes which are not a bilateral agreement of the CETA type, i.e. the agreement between Canada and the EU, ‘can fully respond. It is also a little uncertain whether full compensation can be made with unilateral adaptation to all these Directives and Regulations.’ In addition, the EEA Agreement depends on the agreement of the three EFTA countries on the inclusion of new legislation. In this area, Liechtenstein is not least dependent on the regulatory nature of the financial industry in the internal market. I don't think it's immaterial that we also take that into account. Now the Center Party agrees. ‘that there may be good reasons why the Norwegian Code on Dissemination Fee for Short-Based Transactions is adapted to the legislation of other countries’; as Görlsvik also underlined. The reluctance to incorporate the Regulation into the EEA Agreement appears to be more of a kind of demonstration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e305	As part of this matter, the representative now chooses to invite Norway to join the EU in financial matters and to join the EU's financial supervision. We would like to have a bigger debate on that, and we will also come back later on in another matter that affects it to a greater extent. But to the overall objective of taking greater action and governance over the financial industry to prevent new banking crises, it is important that we build on the tradition we have had in Norway of having sound financial supervision, which is independent and can take care of Norwegian considerations. At that time, it is very unwise to place Norwegian financial supervision in the EU's hands in important areas. To the specific matter that we are dealing with here: I think that the representative Hansen is overplaying to the degree consequences of possibly going against what is on the table here. Here is a Norwegian regulation which, as of today, has almost identical rules to those contained in the regulation resulting from the EU Regulation. The fact that there will be some problem for the Norwegian financial industry to cooperate with other countries and find appropriate solutions if one does not adopt the regulation in this room today is very difficult to see. The specific difference contained in the regulation, compared to the regulation already implemented in Norwegian law – as far as I can see, and pointed out by the case-rapporteur – is the question of establishing a non-judicial dispute resolution body. The centre party is involved in implementing the regulation, but we believe it would have strengthened the treatment in Stortinget if one had given a clearer reason why it is sensible and important to introduce the new requirement for a non-judicial dispute resolution body when we have not considered it necessary on our own national basis as necessary in the past. Then why should we do that now? It must be possible to ask important questions and control questions in dealing with such cases. But, as I said, the Central Party will vote in favour of the proposal for decisions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e317	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e347	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e354	I'm still quite new in the finance committee, and this very text, what this is about, is not necessarily a kiosk for ordinary people. The background to the reference value regulation is that after the financial crisis it was found that there was actually manipulation of the reference interest rates of Libor and Euribor. In addition, allegations of manipulation of commodity indices had been made. The documented manipulation of reference rates has underlined the importance and vulnerability of setting reference values. Manipulation of benchmarks can lead to significant losses for consumers and investors and may have consequences for the real economy. It has made it important to put in place further measures to prevent this from happening again. In this case, we deal with proposals to make changes. The changes will contribute to the implementation of the EU reference value regulation in Norwegian law by incorporation, in addition to providing the necessary accompanying rules provided for in the Regulation. In Norway, there are general rules on the setting of reference interest rates in the reference rate law. Today, the law provides the basis for the future implementation of the rules on reference rates in the reference value Regulation, but does not provide the basis for the implementation of the rules on other benchmarks laid down in the reference value Regulation. The matters we are dealing with now indicate that the regulation will apply as Norwegian law. Although the Regulation should apply as it stands, national provisions are needed to operate certain provisions of the Regulation. The proposal proposes amendments to the reference interest rate law in order to operate the rules of the Regulation, including who shall be the supervisory authority, the requirements of the Regulation on the available instruments of the supervisory authorities and the requirements of the Regulation on reaction systems. It is proposed that the Financial Supervisory Authority should be empowered to impose requirements on the publication and correction of benchmarks, to provide periodic penalty payments for non-compliance with obligations and to take decisions prohibiting persons from exercising management functions in undertakings required to be authorised or authorised by law. Provisions are also proposed to allow the Financial Supervisory Authority to decide on the withdrawal of profits and to impose an infringement fee in the event of specified infringements. On the other hand, the criminal code is not proposed. During the Committee's proceedings, the Centre Party and the Red Party have chosen to promote their own comments, and the Centre Party is promoting its own proposal, so I expect that they may explain their views. But I think – on behalf of the Progress Party – that this is a good thing. It's actually about cross-border cooperation to ensure that both consumers and investors are well cared for, and that these reference rates cannot be manipulated, because it means a lot to ordinary people and to values. So I'm a little surprised at the proposal of the Central Party here, but it's clearly a sceptical of anything that could be related to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e367	In the proposition, the Government asks the Stortingen to consent to rules that are important to maintain confidence in reference values used in financial contracts. These include: important to maintain confidence in key Norwegian benchmarks, such as: Nibor, to be used by EU market players. The Reference Value Regulation now incorporated into the EEA Agreement provides rules on the determination and use of benchmarks used in financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring investment fund performance. Thus, a number of requirements will be imposed on those setting the benchmarks and on how to organise the activity. Most of the provisions of the Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2018 in the EU. In Norway, there are general rules in the reference rate law on how to set the reference rate. Today, the law provides for the future implementation of the rules on the reference rate in the reference value Regulation, but does not provide for the implementation of the rules on other benchmarks of the reference value Regulation, such as stock and bond indices and commodity reference values. That is why the amendment of the law we are adopting today is important in order to operationalise the rules of the regulation. With the amendment of the Act, the Financial Supervisory Authority will decide whether to authorise or approve registration of an administrator of a reference value. As the rapporteur said, the Financial Supervisory Authority shall also have the power to impose requirements on the publication of corrections to reference values, where appropriate, to impose periodic penalty payments for non-compliance with obligations and to impose a prohibition on persons to hold management functions in undertakings which must have that type of authorisation or approval under the law. As the rapporteur had in mind the history, what we saw in the financial crisis, is the correct setting of benchmarks of great importance to the parties to a contract, and even small deviations can potentially have significant economic consequences for both consumers and investors – and next time for financial stability. Therefore, the inclusion of this Regulation strengthens confidence in key benchmarks. It is important for Norway and for Norwegian actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e376	I noticed that the case rapporteur said that this case is not a kiosk, but at least that case may mean that it is turning new costs over to the Financial Supervisory Authority and Norwegian courts, and that it contributes to the giving of sovereignty. I think that the case rapporteur, rather than trying to polish with the Centre Party, who raises critical questions about the importance of introducing new EU legislation into Norwegian law, should concentrate on presenting what is actually the consequences of the rules being introduced. We have ongoing issues in Norwegian society about how Stortinget has not been aware of the consequences of rules that you have accepted through the EEA Agreement, what kind of obligations it entails for Norway, what kind of consequences it has for citizens, for Norwegian administration, for Norwegian courts and for us as legislators. Then I think maybe one should show a little more moderation in his criticism and his polemization with those who choose to go into the matter heavily and ask some critical questions, and look at what it actually means. It is unfortunate to introduce new legislation without having an in-depth assessment of its impact on Norwegian enterprises, without having made more thorough assessments of whether another could have made other regulatory adaptations in order to adapt to Norwegian circumstances, if one were to introduce the rules. So the question is what kind of consequences this has for increased bureaucracy, which once was something the Progress Party was occupied with, but which they have not shown any interest in since they came into government — on the contrary, bureaucracy is increasing in Norway day by day. It says that there will be increased costs for the Financial Supervisory Authority, increased costs for the courts, but it is therefore not concrete what this will mean. How much is the extra burden? How much is the extra cost? And what kind of tasks are being carried out today, might it be possible to go beyond? What one should have done is to assess what this means for Norwegian interests, and whether there are other solutions we could have chosen for adaptation. That is why the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has put forward a concrete proposal. ‘will the Government come back to Stortinget with a new proposal concerning the EU Reference Value Regulation, in which detailed assessments of Norway’s interests in the case are made and where amendments and adaptations are proposed which can alleviate the burden on Norwegian operators and otherwise provide a regulation adapted to Norwegian circumstances’. I will address the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e390	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e395	After the reaction from the representative, Gülsvik, I understand that I was obviously bored on some sore toes. I don't think it was very much polemization or that kind of thing, but I just record that in any case – even in things that are important for Norwegian consumers, Norwegian investors and for a Norwegian business that is international and trade internationally – the representative is critical that the value of having such cooperation across national borders and a code that is well in place and ensures Norwegian interests in a good way. That the representative Geelsvik is not so concerned about it is going to be his problem. I think it's well-lit in what's here, but I'm recording that the Center Party is opposed in any case. The progress party can sometimes be critical and have discussions, but sometimes it can also have a little bit more vision and see that this can actually make sense sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e400	As legislators in the national parliament, we have a responsibility to have a thorough assessment of different issues we deal with, and of the consequences for Norwegian actors – the consequences for those affected. It says in the case that, among other things, will be increased costs for the financial supervision, increased costs for the courts and other consequences, while at the same time not giving any judgment on the matter of what it means for other actors and interests in the Norwegian community. I hear that the representative Hoksrud paints with a broad brush and says that this will work positively, and that international cooperation in any case is good. The centre party has not said that we are necessarily against such legislation in the seventh place, but we want a more responsible procedure in Stortinget, which better illustrates the consequences of legislation and also looks into whether, when implementing legislation, there are other ways of adapting it to Norwegian conditions – ensuring that one can reduce the burden both economically and otherwise. This is, therefore, a matter of giving sovereignty from Norwegian elected representatives, from Norwegian democracy, to the EU. Then one at a time can discuss what one is for and against, but having a proper trial means I am Stortinget worthy. I would therefore once again encourage the Stortinget to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e411	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e428	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the allocated speaking time shall be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e435	The case concerns adjustments and amendments to a number of financial market provisions and laws, to which a broad majority of the Committee subscribes. Firstly, we amend the Financial Corporations Act and the Debt Collection Act, we provide the basis for the provision of public register information on parental responsibility and contact information for the deceased directly to the financial and debt collection companies. It simplifies and streamlines the collection of information for enterprises, courts and heirs. Furthermore, we amend Section 45 of the Financial Contracts Act so that, in the event of a banking crisis, the Norwegian Bank and the Banks Insurance Fund have the necessary and sufficient funds and legal clarifications to provide credit and other supporting measures. In the context of the EU's capital requirements, minor changes are also made to the law and regulation, and the Committee has stressed the importance of sound banks with strict requirements for own funds. We are doing well in the Norwegian economy, but we must ensure that the Norwegian banking system is well prepared and rusted for stormy days as well. Furthermore, we implement the EU Directive which will provide an information obligation for both active and retired members of public and private occupational pension schemes and provide them with a right to information on their own request. These changes will contribute to better worker mobility. The Government also proposes to extend the competence of the Financial Complainant to non-judicial disputes between payees and payment service providers. The Committee has agreed to this and considers it an appropriate and practical solution. The proposed changes will, in total, contribute to simplification and efficiency, while respecting our international obligations and ensuring a more robust banking system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e448	I thank the case rapporteur for presenting the case. Here, too, we are facing a situation where it would have been more reasonable to go through what the different legislation means for Norwegian interests, and to make an assessment around it in different areas. I would like to mention in particular that one of the things I have missed from the case-rapporteur was the input that has come from the hearing bodies, from both the LO and the NHO, in slightly different areas. They have also been commented on by a minority in the Committee — otherwise a minority composed not only of EU opponents, if anyone in the Chamber would try to make a point of it. LO and NHO have important points, I think, which I think the majority should have reflected around and responded to in the hall. For example, LO has recorded that: ‘all employees, regardless of whether they move to another EEA country or remain in Norway, must, in the event of resignation, have all occupational retirement provision, i.e. both own deposits and payments made by the employer». We share the view that the LO has on pensions, that it should not be a tool for social dumping, and state that poorer regulation in this area should not give foreign labour a competitive advantage in the Norwegian labour market. Furthermore, we also point to what the NHO has pointed out, that: ‘Most enterprises in Norway are small and medium-sized, and will not have competence or be able to follow up enquiries about the conditions for earning a pension’. We believe that one must assume that, in practice, it will be the pension providers who will manage the information obligation and that small and medium-sized enterprises will fulfil the obligation by facilitating the provision of such information by pension providers. We share the NHO's view that the legal text here should have been clearer. So I would have appreciated whether the views expressed by the minority in the Committee in those areas were also commented on either by the case-rapporteur or the Council of State. Otherwise, we don't have any further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Thus today's map is fully debated. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e493	The size should now vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e505	During the debate Seher Aydar put forward a proposal on behalf of Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Presidency to submit a proposal for a test procedure for citizens’ proposals, where persons with voting rights in major elections may submit proposals to be discussed on the Grand Duchy. The size further states: electronic-based procedure for submitting proposals and announcing support for the proposal; require a given number of named persons to register as proposers before the proposal is published and made available, so that the voters can agree to the proposal and the procedures for doing so; requiring at least one per cent of citizens with voting rights in voting rights to express their support for a proposal to be addressed by the Stortinget; the form requirements for the proposal; criteria and procedures for rejecting citizens’ proposals which fall outside the scope of the scheme or which, because of their content, are unsuitable for publication through the scheme; time-limits for the use of the scheme; alternative procedures for persons unable to use the electronic solution.’;» An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the suspension of the presidency. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e562	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e567	I also voted incorrectly!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e572	There are several people who have voted incorrectly. Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e610	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new proposal for the EU Reference Value Regulation to come back to Stortinget, which provides for a thorough assessment of Norway’s interests in the case and proposes amendments and adaptations which can relieve the burden on Norwegian operators and otherwise provide a regulation adapted to Norwegian circumstances.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e632	The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e894	The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e907	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e921	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e1274	It is first contested by Section XIV, Section 3-4, fifth paragraph, and Section 6-2, third paragraph. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e1289	The remainder of XIV and I-XIII and XV and XVI shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e1299	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e1309	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-21.ana.ud116e1329	Today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
