ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e47	The representative Heidi Greni, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The formerly provisionally exempted alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, shall take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e73	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies after submissions by the main players in the lots and eight lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e84	Transport is a bet area both for the Right and for the government parties, and since 2013 the trade budget has increased by more than 80 pst. There is a formidable increase, and we will continue this effort and follow-up of the national transport plan in the state budget for next year. However, it is not enough to give more money. It is our responsibility to use the Community's resources as efficiently as possible. That is why we are implementing several important reforms. The establishment of New Roads has proved to be a success. The company has shown that it is possible to plan and implement important road projects both faster and at a lower cost and a higher benefit. The big advantage of New Roads is that they have a portfolio of longer distances to be expanded and a predictable cash flow. The company itself has estimated that the savings correspond so far to 100 km by way of a quadruple road. So that means something about how we organize. It's natural to look at the experiences we have with New Roads, whether it can also be transferred to the State Road Service. I have great faith that this is possible. New organisation, increased flexibility and a national transport plan that facilitates more overall and strategic priorities will contribute to this. An overall opposition was against the establishment of New Roads. I record that scepticism has waned with success, and that the resistance now comes mainly from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, which wants to deprioritize road construction – and a central party that is almost on principle must be a bit opposed. The railway budget has increased by 88 pst. since 2013. Still more people choose to travel by train, and it is very happy. The number of take-offs has increased significantly. But there is also a need for reforms in this area, both to ensure more efficient infrastructure deployment and not least to create an attractive range of services for customers. There has been massive resistance to the rail reform from the opposition. On Monday this week the Traffic Package 3 was decided and the Vy Train was awarded the contract. The result is that passengers get a better offer, and the state goes from paying 200 million. NOK 200 million. kr every year for Vy to drive Bergensbanen. It shows that competition works. Overall, the first three packages are 20 pst. by the passenger base, savings granted compared to the current situation of 1,2 billion. kr per year. There are funds that can be released to develop Norwegian railways. An overall opposition was also opposed to the rail reform, but all parties are actually balancing their budgets with the benefits of the reform. I think that is simply a slight budgeting. When we took over in 2013, there was a significant lag on both the road and the track. Therefore, we have not only prioritised the construction of new projects, but increased the focus on the maintenance and renewal of existing infrastructure. For highways, decay has turned to renewal. Since 2015, the maintenance run has been reduced every year, and we follow this up in the 2020 budget. In total, the maintenance seat run has been reduced by nearly 8 billion. during this period on the national road network. At the same time, we see that the situation on the county road network is more complex. To this end, we will provide a grant scheme where state co-funding can be provided to reduce the maintenance set-up and bet on the main economic pathways. The amount for 2020 is a start-up, and it is natural to step up this mechanism in the coming years and in the work on the national transport plan. The transport sector is facing major changes. Greenhouse gas emissions are declining and the transport sector needs to take a large part of this reduction. We cannot solve this by reducing people's mobility and freedom of movement, but by facilitating all modes of transport to be free of emissions. There's already a lot of positive happening. As much as 70-80 ferries will in a short time be low- and zero-emission ferries as a result of an offensive public procurement policy. Enova is our main tool in this transition, and in the 2020 budget it is set at over 1 billion. kr to zero-emission technology in commercial transport. Tax policy has led Norway to be a leading country in the phase-in of more environmentally friendly passenger cars and electric cars. Also in the air, there is a lot of excitement, and in a few years, electric airplanes have become a realistic opportunity. In several areas, this development will help create new and exciting jobs across the country, and we have a resilient business that is good at gripping these opportunities. Major and rapid technological changes create new opportunities. We can create a simpler everyday life for people and better connect the country, while reducing emissions from the transport sector. In this way, it has never been more exciting to work on transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e112	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e117	I was visiting More and Romsdal ferries ten days ago. There's a rebellion against increased ferry tariffs. The county has poor conditions under this government, and especially in the ferries. The home state of the town has also lost 50 million. kr to tunnel safety regulation. The working party has a total of 1.5 billion in its alternative budget. SEK more to counties, of which 92 million. kr extra to the ferry and fast boat counties. This would give More and Romsdal the opportunity to achieve our climate targets without increasing the ferry tariffs. What would the representative say to himself about the government's downgrading of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e126	Firstly, I do not agree that we have any down-priority of neither More and Romsdal nor other states, either in transfers in the framework grant or in the investment in river ferries. Because what we see is that through Enova, More and Romesdal states have got about. 220 million. kr to bet on and facilitate river ferries. At the same time, I think it makes sense to evaluate whether the arrangements we have had are good enough. I think that might at least be a basis we should work together to look at. If, for example: KS, which I understand has an ambition to go through these numbers, can come up with a common factual basis, I am open to discuss whether the arrangements we have today to lift and take that conversion to electric and zero emission ferries need to be strengthened. Because I see that this is a big uplift for the county councils, and I'm at least willing to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e133	The ferry tariffs are the district tolls. It's uplifting that one looks at Enova as part of this investment, but there's no doubt that county councils have a decline in their transfers for next year's budget. As I mentioned before, the municipality of More and Romsdal has lost 50 million by mistake. kr to the tunnel safety regulation, a regulation to be covered by 2025. So my next question will be whether the representative has looked at this error, and whether it will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e138	The representative has more than looked at that error, I have actually helped fix it. What is the reality is that the Moors and the Romsdals by mistake had not received money for tunnel protection. I brought that up with the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport and the State Road Administration have reviewed this and found that More and Romsdal counties claim 70 million. kr for tunnel protection for 2020. There has been a dialogue with the Ministry of Local Affairs about, which is involved in the transfers to the county, and they will then transfer these $70 million. kr. 60 million of them are being transferred through beauties this year, and the other 10.8 million. NOK is transferred over the New Year, so that issue has been resolved. A little quickly back to ferries: I imagine that we should jointly review the facts, get an overview of the costs of county municipalities to switch to electricity, low- and zero-emission ferries, and that together we might be able to see if the arrangements we have today are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e145	Tolls have been a hot topic this year, and in Helgeland they are angry. They have paid tolls to a road that is not being built. Far south, road package Helgeland south, remains below 10 km at a cost of 160 million. kr. This toll agreement that we spent the entire election campaign on was probably worth $8.5 billion. kr. What is the reason why government will not give priority to bottlenecks in districts where people have already paid tolls for roads that are not built but put everything in urban growth packages, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e150	The discussion we had here this summer about reducing tolls and also strengthening collective efforts in urban areas was an interesting discussion in many ways. The result of this is that we are now actually reducing tolls around the whole country, and I think the representative Mossleth is also pleased that the government is doing so. It's an important grip and a signal to people that there's going to be a limit on how much toll we can charge. There has to be a reasonable relationship between what we demand and what we get again. With regard to these individual projects, there is also a job we have to do towards the national transport plan and its roll-over. We want to think more strategically, more corridorically, and make sure that we get a more complete completion of the projects. And that's what I think we're going to be able to do in a good way when we're going to roll the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e157	The representative town boasts of New Roads AS, and I just want to say briefly that it may well have happened that the state road service had also got quite a lot with the same conditions. We have to leave it. But on the other hand, I think it is interesting to see what New Roads are doing in terms of motorway expansion. They're following a highway plan that the government has put in, and that's what I'm going to grab. It is a well-known case that government councils from the Progress Party are happy in speed and excitement, and they are happy in asphalt and four-field highways. But why should the Right, which is called a serious batch, automatically log for this and be on a motorway plane that is probably not needed on the basis of professional criteria? I would like to ask the local representative if he has read the report from the State Road Administration this fall, which came in October, where it says that two- and three-field roads can be as useful, are much cheaper and carry out the same task as four-field motorways. Will he take a closer look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e167	First, I can assure the representative that I do not have the ability to log – but it is now. The point is, I'm actually proud. I'm proud of the road construction we've built with this government. I am proud that we are actually building a motorway network in Norway that is lagging behind, and which we should have had in place a long time ago. I'm proud that we spend as much on transportation as we do on this government. That's why I don't even take the criticism. On the contrary, I think that the representative Nävra and SV should understand the value of building infrastructure throughout the country, in a completely different way from what they are doing today. For the representative of Nävra and SV, it is precisely to strangle the transport efforts through road construction. What you achieve then is to strangle the business, the district bet, in the whole country, and I don't intend to be. I'm proud, and I'm going to continue to be proud that we build as much way as we do with this government. To that with capacity: yes, I think we need to look at what capacity we need, based on the traffic base of the different road sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e176	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e181	Climate challenges are the challenge of our time. As the transport sector is a non-negligible contributor to climate emissions, the transport sector is very important in reducing climate emissions. The Labour Party's policy is to cut emissions, create new jobs and provide good transport solutions for people and businesses. That is why the Workers' Party has a very offensive social budget for 2020, as we have had every year before. The working party is paying significantly more on trade than what the government parties and the majority of the population are doing. Yes, in fact, the Workers' Party has over 1.5 billion. kr more for transport purposes in the 2020 budget. When we dealt with the National Transport Plan in 2017, the Workers' Party had four bet areas. It was rail and public transport, it was ports and maritime transport, it was safe roads, and it was broadband development. This has been followed up in the budgets for 2018, 2019 and 2020. Norway is a coastal and maritime nation. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the government prioritises the coast and port – yes, the government actually cuts in the appropriations for the Coastal Agency from 2019 to 2020. It is completely wrong way to go. The Labour Party, unlike the government, will bet on the coast, and that is why we are also spending more money on ports and fairways. If the political goal of getting more goods from road to sea is to be something more than a party speech, we have to bet on our ports, we have to bet on the coast, and we have to bet on the fairways. The lake is future. Digital infrastructure is as important today as other infrastructure. Therefore, broadband has to be developed for all, and therefore the state has to contribute to what is not commercially profitable to expand. The State should contribute more and the Workers' Party believes that the State should contribute 500 million. kr per year for broadband expansion. The Labour Party wants the State to take 70 pst. of the investment costs of the major collective projects in our major cities. For the moment, the Fornebubanen, the Urban Railway in Bergen, the Bussveien on Nord-Jären and the Metrobus project in Trondheim are within the State aid scheme. The Labour Party follows this up in our budget by adding more money to the major collective projects, so that the state can contribute 70 pst. We propose significantly more to rail, both for operation and maintenance, for investment, for planning new projects and for the aid scheme to get more goods from road to rail. Railways are future. We have also put in more money for out-of-office inspection of the vehicle and more money for racial protection and for county roads. The climate challenge is today's challenge. Our generation has to do something with it. We have to act. We need to solve the climate challenges, and we need to build the country further. That is why the Labour Party has a very offensive and forward-looking transport budget for 2020. 2020 is the year three in the first six-year planning period in the national transport plan, i.e. three out of six years. We're halfway through the six-year period. After all, we would have thought that with the 2020 budget, the follow-up rate according to the national transport plan would be about 50 p.m. But it's not. The degree of follow-up according to the national transport plan promises is – overall – approx. 45 pst. with the 2020 budget, and on rail, it is only 42 pst. But the worst thing: for coastal purposes, the follow-up rate after three out of six years is only 33 pst. It's too bad. The government doesn't keep its promises. We have a government that doesn't control what's happening in the transport sector. Let me say a little bit about the so-called railway reform, which has been in the wind for the last few days. Norwegian Railways are on cheap sales. It's a sad development that we now see happening to our railway, but that's how the railway works when parties that are not happy in the railway run. We have to remember how it all started. Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, former head of the transport committee at Stortinget, started it all in VG 4 September 2014. There we could read: ‘We’re going to scrape so much toothpaste out of the tube that Ap can’t put it back.’ Further headlines in the headline: ‘Knuse NSB’s train monopoly’ and ‘Government in meetings with several foreign train companies’. This was the starting point for the so-called railway reform, i.e. an ideological settlement with the railway organisation. The government's starting point was never to improve the railway, it was never to have an offensive railway policy for the future – no, because the vision of the railway is completely gone. This government's railway policy is limited to: How can we run today's offer as cheap as possible? It is the current railway policy. Where does the double-track development in the East, the so-called intercity expansion? It has been pushed out in time; the government can't say anything about when the double tracks in the East are finished, and with what is in the budget proposal, the government has actually put on ice double-track development on the Eastfold Railway. Thus, the government cannot respond when the extension of the East is due to take place. Freight traffic on the railways wears out, the government is paralysed, and as if not enough: it is likely to use the opportunity to increase the road tax on freight in a situation where freight transport wears. And now the reactions come; from December 15th we get a new operator on the Sørlandsbanen. Now, of course, people are discovering that the discounted tickets currently available can only be used on one company, while you have previously been able to buy discounted tickets on several routes. If you run from December 15th, for example. from Lillestrom to Bø, runs NSB Lillestrom-Oslo, and Go-Ahead runs Oslo-Bø. So far, you've been able to buy a discount ticket on the entire route. It doesn't go from December 15. This has warned several of us that of course it had to be like this. Now people are discovering it, and now we are wearing what the government has said earlier when they have after time claimed that the rail offer would be just as good, and that it would not be more expensive. The railway policy of this government can be summarised as follows: anything that can be put out of competition and privatised must be put out of competition and privatised. We make as many units as possible and companies with as many directors as possible with millions of wages, everyone always has someone else to blame for when things don't work out the way they do. And we're using all the forces to reorganize today's rail system, so we don't have to use force on how we're going to develop the rail system for the future. Everything must be put out of competition and privatised. With this government the Lucia train is the only train that is secured further operation. So finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1 to 18 in the setting. Finally, I would like to make it clear that, on the recommendation of the general authorities, I kept saying, here at the house, the opposition was encouraged to vote against all the Roman numerals in the setting – that we therefore vote in favour of or against the setting, and the opposition then votes against all the Roman numerals. We accept that we're doing it this way, but we want to make it clear that from the Workers' Party we're not necessarily against all the Roman numerals in the setting. For example, I can mention XV in the cancellation, which relates to the power to remove the alcohol duty on Nord-Jären. This is also the Workers' Party because we're removing the running-time charge, and that the government is given authority to do it, but we are therefore accepting the voting method set up for today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e213	The representative, Sverre Myrli, then brought up the proposals he referred to and gave an explanation of vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e220	Here comes a line from someone who's happy in the railroad. I note that the representative Myrli and the Workers' Party are concerned with the railway reform, but not with a very positive sign, despite the fact that one actually achieves improvements in the offer while significantly reducing the cost to the State. In Traffic Package 3, which has already been referred to, we're going from a situation where we're paying 200 million. kr for Vy to drive Bergensbanen, until the same company – by being exposed to competition – is able to offer a better offer and at the same time pay 200 million. kr to drive the same route. There's a difference of 400 million. kr. The first three packages are designed to reduce the cost to the State, compared with the current situation, by approximately 1.2 B.C.E. kr per year. The answer to the Workers' Party is to stop the reform. The question for Myrli is this: Is it not a little unprofitable – or easy budgeting – when it is required to stop the deployment of passenger train services, but at the same time does the benefit of balancing the Workers' Party's alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e229	I'm very pleased with that question. Firstly, I think it is incredibly good to be able to argue with – as I hear the government parties say – that the state has saved 12 billion. kr before a new company has driven a single kilometer under the new regime. Besides, it's just one side of the medal, that's just one problem. How much does it cost to manage the system that we're now seeing? We never hear that. It costs a lot. Already last year, we were operating with a figure of 1.5 billion. kr. How much is it now? We'll never get an answer to that. It might be that one can present an arithmetic that shows that just on the individual section of the track is able to run cheaper than one has done in the past. But that calculation, as I said, has a lot of other sides that we never hear of. In addition, we're dealing with the proposition that the government has made, and in addition, the Workers' Party has put in 500 million. kr more for the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e238	For the last time, the gain from the competitive outsourcing of train traffic in the State budget for 2020 is almost the same as the Workers' Party's contribution to the increase of rail in its alternative budget. The reality is that the Workers' Party would not have had the opportunity to increase its rail budget if it had not been for the railway reform and the economic benefits of the first two packages. Or in another way: the Workers' Party has become dependent on the rail reform and the competitive outsourcing of train traffic in order to afford its rail investment. How will the Workers' Party finance increased rail investment in its alternative budget if the competitive edge gains in 2020 are more than 440 million. kr, taken out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e243	To clarify again what is the Railway Budget of the Workers' Party: we've added 5 million. The budget of the Directorate-General for Railways is cut because we want to stop further competitive start-up of rail traffic. The state and the directorate spend a lot of money on the work now being done with competitive outsourcing and privatisation. Then we've added an increase in the railway budget of 500 million. kr. So it's a net plus 495 million. kr. And then we have 495 million. kr more to the railway than the government has in next year's budget. But I think it's quite significant to listen to the place. This is what the place and government parties are concerned about: budgeting, how we're going to take in the one and take in the other, and whether it's going to be carried out here or there. And, as I said in my main post, the focus is on how we can drive today's railway as cheap as possible. There are no visions for the future – how are we going to develop train traffic? What are we going to do with the connections to Sweden? Should we build more double tracks? There is no vision for the future railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e250	We continue on item 70, the purchase of passenger transport services by train. The situation in the transport sector is that many areas are exposed to competition. For example, the bus, which is the second largest transport source for passengers around the country and for which the county municipalities are responsible, is subject to competition. I have not met anyone in the county that regrets having done that job. It is really only Red that has voted against the tender for a bus. Then we've had more things, it's planes, it's ferries, and I'm glad that the speedboats are also going to tender. Then my question is, should you also reverse these things? Is it the principle of tendering that is so bad – then, in view of the competitive outsourcing of routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e257	The works party is not opposed to tenders in principle, but it must be used where the use of tenders is appropriate and reasonable. In many areas it is very sensible for the public to make use of tenders. But the Labour Party is opposed to the so-called railway reform. The left is for, we know that. And we're opposed to the very reason that we're now seeing: it's going to be a more unwieldy offer for the travellers, and it's not going to be the increase in the offer that was promised by the Left and the other parties that were behind the railway reform. It is quite possible that the county councils are putting the bus traffic on offer, I think that might make sense, but to compare it with the railway does not mean I have a goal. It's a completely different system to operate. We see that now, on all the companies and units that the government has had to set up: it's going to be a terrible tongue and expensive system to operate, the system that it's now being added up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e266	The representative Sverre Myrli thought the government had no visions. No, no, no, no, no, When the company New Roads was established, the Workers' Party was opposed. It was according to the same Swearer Myrli to create a new continuum and a new bureaucracy. The company New Roads has announced that it will save about 28 billion in the remaining ten years. kr versus what it would cost originally, and one almost halves the construction time on the projects, by 530 km motorway. The question then arises: in the case of the lots with which the Workers' Party sees fit to cooperate in a possible future government, the Centre Party is partly opposed to New Roads, they cut every year, SV is opposed and MGD is opposed. What are the visions of the Workers' Party? And how much will it really cost in the future to build a road, does the Workers' Party mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e274	That's right, the Labour Party didn't see the need to create new roads. That we should have two parallel weighing machines in Norway, we thought we were unnecessary. But we live in a democracy. The working party accepts that the bulk of the population decided to establish new roads. We accept that the bulk of the population has decided to tender for rail traffic, and then we have to make the best of it. We also want to build up the roads that New Roads are now building up, but we think the State Road Service could do it as well and as effectively if they had the same framework conditions as New Roads. Now I see – which is very gratifying – that the government and government parties have also come to the conclusion that we have long wanted, that the State Road Service should have the same framework conditions as New Roads. New roads make a lot of sense and a lot of smart. So does the State Road Service. We should then make the best possible use of our resources to get the most out of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e286	The party of progress is the party of the motorists. With the budget to be adopted today, we have increased the investment by a total of 80 pst. since the Party of Advancement came into government. And 2020 will be the sixth year in a row where the maintenance set run will be reduced. It's not obvious. Before we got into the government, every year under the red-green regime increased. Now we've inputted 7 billion. kr of the drain and an additional 700 mill. kr shall be taken in 2020. So a government council from the motorist party had to enter the Department of Transportation for that to happen. Everything is related to everything, and everything starts with and depends on infrastructure. Effective transport corridors are the key for the goods and food we produce to enter the world market quickly, safely and smoothly. The road network connects regions, towns, cities and buildings together. In other words, it is impossible to have a good rural policy or a good industrial policy without a good policy to build the country with infrastructure. That is why not only the Progress Party is the best friend of the drivers, but also the best friend of the districts. Since we took the government offices, it smelled new asphalt from Agder in the south to Finnmark in the north. It makes it easier for business to create values and jobs across the country. A life lost in traffic along Norwegian roads is one life too much. The investments we make are therefore not only investment in order for people to come forward, but also for people to come forward safely. When we put record sums into the development of four-field highways with a mid pulley, it is not only because we want it to go quickly and smoothly, but also to make it safer. Compared to two- and three-field roads, road safety is significantly increased by four blocks and middle parts. When the year is over, it will be open around 84 km of new four-field motorway this year. In comparison, only 73 km of motorway was found in Norway in 1990. Now we're up to over 700 kilometers in total. When we went into the government offices, it was said that we would tear down the wallpaper and start again. We've done that in transportation. The Progress Party has always been competitive and has, over a number of years, called for more public tasks to be open to competition – for the benefit of both taxpayers and consumers. In the time we've run the Ministry of Transport, we've put the road company New Roads in place, a heartchild who was supposed to reform the road sector to think new. The center party called it an air lock. The result shows something quite different and shows that New roads are a success that has revolutionised road development in Norway. When New Roads come to terms with their projects, they'll have saved society for about 28 billion. kr and nearly halved the construction time of their projects. The savings made by the company correspond to the price of about 100 km of quadruple motorway. Competition works and challenge the established is both necessary and profitable. The same is true of the railway reform. As late as Monday, it was announced that Vy, former NSB, won the contract to drive trains on the Bergensbanen. This distance has paid the state 200 million. kr per year to train on, i.e. 2 billion. DKK of 10 years. Now, Vy has to pay 2.2 billion. kr to the treasury in the next few years to drive the same route. They shall provide better services and drive more. The total cost reduction for the three bidding rounds that have now been open, respectively the Traffic Package South, North and West, amounts to approximately 12 billion. kr. This is money that we can rather invest in new and more infrastructure that benefits people, while at the same time the travellers on these routes get an even better offer than they have today. Who would have thought that competition could lead to a better offer for cheaper money. Well, we in the Progress Party thought it was possible, and now we have shown that it is actually possible to do things smarter and better by thinking a little bit new, and by drying to challenge the established. When Vy was able to win the last round, I was happy about it. I asked earlier in this room for a debate: why did someone never ask how it was possible that we could calculate so low? Well, it had to compete. The Labour Party says that this government does not have visions and says that we could just ask them to do the same. Yeah, the idea did it before. The Progress Party had to enter the Ministry of Transport in order to dry out the challenge to the established and implement what the Workers' Party is now calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e308	In a comment from the Committee, the Progress Party expresses its satisfaction that the new regions will be given new tasks. Fishing ports are one of the new tasks, and no money of importance is included. The coasting list in the coastal works is long. New plants were cut by 134 million. SEK, major acquisitions of equipment are cut by 78 million. NOK and transport of goods from road to sea is cut by 27 million. kr. I am really asking: is the Progress Party satisfied with this effort and will the government compensate for the maintenance run at the fishing ports?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e313	The progress party has always been concerned with transport and infrastructure and would like to spend a lot more money in all areas of transport, but we are satisfied with what we have done so far. We are pleased that the same regions that have been sitting on this are also given responsibility and competence. So yes – we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e318	The Progress Party says in its programme that it wants the State to have overall responsibility for the infrastructure in Norway. My question is: does the representative of Stordalen believe that the county councils have financial room for action to continue to invest in the fishing ports?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e323	When I see the county budgets and what they spend money on in various county municipalities, I think they definitely have money if they prioritize correctly, and the most important thing first. I see a pretty big use of money all over County Norway, so I'm sure that when they get such big and important tasks, they'll give it better priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e328	I noticed that there was a lot of quadruple highway when the Progress Party took the floor in the budget debate. It was not mentioned at all when we were on committee tour in Northern Ireland. In the Nordic region, we have a lot of coastline. The representative of Stordalen did not mention the coast once in his speech. The situation is that the counties from More and Romesdal and northwards will not take over the state fishing ports. They haven't signed, and that's because the amount that the states are going to divide for this task in 2020 is 120 million. kr. It's less than what Nordland needs alone, and there's a state that's been reduced in the framework. Is the Progress Party, which is really going to wind up the county councils, happy to find another way to underfinance the county councils, and is this reform really a new dose of depletion and centralisation for large coastal areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e335	I am very pleased that the representative Mossleth asks whether we are satisfied with the transfer of the fishing ports and the financing, because that reminds me of a question. It is strange that it comes from a party that had its own Minister of Transport, who transferred 17 000 km of highway on 1 January 2010, without any money. Fishing ports have been allocated resources and nodal ports, which are also important, have been identified. I am absolutely sure that the county councils – with the support of the Coastal Agency – will do well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e340	The advance party is against tolls, but they are at the same time for all tolls when it is voted here in the hall. It's widely known. Now in our vote, the Progress Party voted for about 20 billion. kr in tolls only on four projects, and I now want a very clear response from the Progress Party. If they really mean anything about taking away the tolls, where in the world are they going to take the money for their major motorway projects? Are they going to take it, as they've sometimes said, from oil money directly? Are we talking about our fund itself investing directly, or how has the Progress Party intended to finance its fragile motorway plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e346	The party of progress is primarily because we should be financed directly – that is absolutely correct – and prioritised quite differently. If the Progress Party had been in government alone and had a majority in the Biggest, we would have done so quite clearly. I am pleased that we are building so much more roadway and annually demanding about the same tolls that were made during the reign of Arne Nävra's party. Now we grant much more in government funds, and we build more roads – more safe and secure roads. I'm absolutely sure the country's drivers and all the country's families are happy about it. Anyone who has driven and driven on old two- and three-field roads with serious accidents, I don't think I want to go back to that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e351	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e356	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. The central party wants a transport policy that ensures efficient transport of goods, people and information throughout the country, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In metropolitan cities there shall be zero growth and preferably the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Any growth in transport shall be taken through public transport, bicycles and corridors. But to be quite clear, for the Center Party, it's no goal to get more people into the cities. Adult pain in the largest cities and the impoverishment of districts is not a good recipe for using the whole country. The centre party does not seem wise to replace urban environment agreements with urban growth agreements. We want to turn the focus from growth to the environment in cities. The centre party will have growth in the districts and it is time for the state to commit itself to greater investment in the districts. Racial protection, broadband, highways and the removal of bottlenecks are important when it is to bet throughout the country. Norway has a long and important coastline, and for the Central Party it is important to bet on the coast. The centre party will use more than the government in these areas. We want to add 244 million. kr, almost double the broadband subsidy relative to the government to increase broadband development. Digital all-man rights are increasingly important to people. We're going to spend 50 million dollars. kr more than the government to remove bottlenecks for the transport of timber. Much of the food transport in this country starts by a country road or depends on a ferry. There are also many who use the county road to kindergarten, school or work. The center part will take 1 billion. kr for increased roadway operation. We will have our own maintenance programme for the county roads and propose this this year. Unfortunately, the government parties voted it down, and we got the little bet of 100 million. kr as a searchable grant to county roads with particularly large commercial transport of national interest. I was only a little happy when Prime Minister Erna Solberg proclaimed this bet in Bodø on the back of the election campaign. It sounded like Nordland was going to get 100 million. kr more for upgrading county roads in 2020. It would have been a little bit of a start. One hundred million. The kr that the whole country has to fight over is rather fluent. It sounds like there's going to be a lot more bureaucracy than better highways of this venture. That's a shame, because we have about four times more highways than highways, and there's a far greater risk of getting killed or badly damaged on a county road. Better county roads are good for people, the environment and business. In addition to a billion bet on the county roads, the Centre Party will spend 200 million. kr more than the County Road Race Safety Government and 100 million. kr more on race protection of highways. The center part will spend $300 million. kr more than the government to remove some bottlenecks on the highways, which the government has not followed up. The centre party is betting on the coast, and our coastal package contains over 600 million. kr more than the government's coastal effort. The central party wanted the fishing ports to remain state-owned. We think it worked well with the Coastal Works, and those jobs are already out in the districts. For example, in the north, the regional offices are located in Kabelvåg and in Honningsvåg. But the government parties roll over the responsibility for the fishing ports to the counties without the money to cover the task. In fact, the Government has reduced the appropriations before the transfers. I want to stress once again that the four northern states that refused to sign will have 120 million. kr on sharing. It's nothing when you know what challenges are there. Only Nordland has 80 fishing ports and needs at least 130 million. kr per year. Finnmark and Troms also have billions of investments that are at stake. But the Center Party will bet on getting more goods over on the sea and track. It is good for road safety and for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e378	The central party has been declared against the railway reforms, such as: is about the competitive postponement of train sections. Preliminary figures show that so far over a ten-year period, the country will save 12 billion. kr on the three train packages which have been available. Is this completely irrelevant to the Center Party? And since the central party is of the opinion that the monopoly situation should exist, what thoughts does the representative Mossleth have about why a monopolist like NSB, later Vy, have not been able to take out the potential of a market and price that offer now shows that actually is there?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e385	I'm worried about what the railway reform will mean for people who are going to take the train. I took the train from York to London this summer. There this railway reform has worked over time. As they have it there, so is the government and government parties want to have it in the future. That train was incredibly expensive, it was dirty, it was barely there. Had I lived there, I would not have taken a train, then I would have taken a taxi or a car of my own, and it is neither environmentally friendly nor anything else. But we see, for example, SJ in the north wants flexible tickets, the minimum price goes away, it gets more expensive for people to take the train, and we don't want it that way. We actually want to develop good train offers for the best for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e392	The central party writes in comment with the Workers' Party and SV that they are opposed to the railway reform, and I quote from the comment: ‘where Norwegian railway management is transformed by, inter alia, setting up routes, based on a malled ideology of competition and the excellence of the market which undermines the skills and dignity of railway staff.’ [[...]] Then I'd like to right what the Center Party means by that. Is a railway set in SJ or Go-Ahead less valued than one that is state-owned?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e402	We experience that this competitive environment exerts pressure on pay and working conditions. It has been quite clear, for example. in the case of pension conditions, which have become worse. It is quite clear that we want an orderly pay and working conditions for employees in state companies, but we see that this fragmentation of the railway has led to a lot of new directors who have a pay increase all over the world. We don't want it like that. We want lower salaries and fewer directors, we want better rail services for people, and we want cheaper rail services for people. We don't want to adopt the train offer that we like. experience in England today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e411	It may appear that the Central Party aims to become the party of the driving list. In their alternative proposal, we see that they add up to some cuts that in the next round lead to an increase in tolls. You want to cut rewards, you want to cut out appropriations for new roads with a total of 673 million. kr. That means that someone else necessarily has to pay for these cuts. The question then becomes very simple: How much does the centre party think the driver will pay in tolls before enough is enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e416	It was a very interesting question to get from the representative Olsen, who promised on behalf of the Progress Party, with a tax queen and Finance Minister Siv Jensen, that there would be zero in tolls when they came into government. It was going to be zero, there shouldn't be any toll. At that time, the Progress Party has been in government, we have increased the toll load by 4.5 billion. NOK, and then he asks how the Senterpartie will carry more expenses to the drivers. We want it to be cheaper to drive a car where there are no good alternatives with public transport. In our budget, we have lower fuel charges on both petrol and diesel to save the district car.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e421	The President will draw attention to the fact that there is no mention of government councils, such as: queens and kings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e427	The representative Mossleth explained a little bit about why the Centre Party is reducing the rewards, i.e. Item 66 Rewards for urban grant schemes, which they reduce from 2.7 billion. DKK to SEK 2.2 billion. kr – urban environment agreements were also replaced by urban growth agreements. I do not think the rapporteur in Stjørdal is very pleased with the view of the Central Party. Stjørdal has now joined an urban conference around Trondheim and is particularly pleased with the measures taken by the State and the objectives pursued by the different municipalities. My question concerns the reward scheme and not least the urban growth agreements. We know that the Central Party would also have a clearer decline in the electoral campaign, but why would they take it where it is best in terms of climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e434	The centre party wants a good environment in the cities, we don't want any further growth in the cities. We want growth across the country, and then growth must be more in the districts. The centre party also wants more cities in the urban environment agreements, because as it is now, the nine largest cities get very large amounts through these agreements. The representative had a lot to do with his question and spent a little longer time than estimated – we want to prioritise a lot of environment in cities. We see that today's government is spending quite a lot of money towards the most central struts, often at the expense of the districts. We want to redeploy a few of the billions of urban growth agreements to urban growth agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e446	We should have at least two starting points for discussing the country's transport policy by 2020. Firstly, we're obviously going to try to facilitate the safe, good and efficient transport of people and goods across the country, that's a matter of course. But essential is point two, that is climate and environmental considerations. Here we have to have two things in our head at the same time: that transport represents one third of our climate emissions, and that transport development seizes large areas, or divides up areas, often of valuable nature and cultivated land. I'm starting with this last point, the climate and the environment part. There are two UN panels, thousands of scientists, that capture the threats we face. At least four of the UN's sustainability targets are in our area here. It should affect the conscience of all representatives for which land we are to supply to children and grandchildren. Of course, it's swollenly formulated – yes, sure, and that's the way it should be, because it's that serious. Very much continues as before in this hall in terms of transport, it is unfortunately a fact. The majority do not take seriously — they do not — the state budget reflects it. I must honestly say that the alternative budgets of the big parties in opposition also reflect to some degree. But something has happened, I'm going to come back to that, and it's joyous. First, of course, the electrification of passenger car use is good, the whole Storting agrees. The stimulus to transition is good, and it should continue for a few years to come before tightening up. But one piece of joy is it; it doesn't go fast enough. We're going to have to struggle with the size of the 2025 if we don't take any major grips. This is due to the lack of charging stations in the districts, and it is again due to the lack of subsidies from the state and, in addition, to the costly power part on electricity. The phase-in of river ferries is top, there's a lot of consensus about here in the hall, but it's almost to the unreasonable that no money comes with a big decision. SV has added 300 million. kr to the zero-emission collective effort in the counties, primarily to the ferries. The other parties should have done the same. We nordics fly too much, too much: ten times more than an average European. What are we going to do with that? Almost no grip is taken – a symbolic passenger charge that means that a ticket to Europe does not cost much more than a return ticket with the flight to the Gardermoen – perhaps two tickets then. I think a lot of people are responding to this. SV will increase this significantly, but will screen the short-haul network, where flight prices are more than high enough as they are. But we're getting the EEA troll caught. We propose here that we investigate possible measures to protect the short-range network within the action space if the passenger charge increases. But who in the hall supports this? Check it out. If we had used carrots – to which the Progress Party likes to refer – instead of whips, i.e. fees, what is suggested? The only solution that is then real is the high-speed rail between the major cities of Norway and Stockholm and Gothenburg: not a single pipe. By three hours by train to Stockholm or between Oslo and Bergen – do you think that people had taken flights? The government parties even voted down SV and the opposition's proposal on KVUs for new fast lines to Stockholm and Gothenburg – we know this. We want a new high-speed investigation on new premises. As you know, as you call in the woods, you get answers. Criteria were introduced, which was actually an order shop on a no. Yes, it was under the red-green government, and SV stood for what we stood for. But we will take the matter up again. So everything goes on like before in this field as well. What about roads? I made one point in the line change with the representative Placen. The interesting thing here is that the Workers' Party and the Centre are now in a comment with us, where we refer to the latest report from the State Road Service that, on two and three-field roads with ÅDTs between 8 000 and 20 000, two and three-field roads provide very strong economic, socio-economic and efficient. We need to look at this both in relation to the environment and in relation to resources. Then I would like to address all the suggestions that SV alone has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e475	Then the representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e482	The representative is very opposed to building roads, and he justifies it in his own way. But it is a project for which the representative has a great heart, and it goes through his own state – E134. There he points to what annual traffic, ÅDT, represents for residents along the line – that it is a terrible thing. In addition, he says you have to do something about it. It is put in a ghastly light when you think of everyone else in this country who has gone by, and all the other European roads that have much more traffic than E134 through Lier. But there, through agricultural Lier, there's going to be a four-field highway. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e489	This is not hard to answer. I think the representative Igstad also knows the answer. There is a huge difference between the West Corridor and the expansion there and that there is going to be a two-field narrow road through a residential area in Lahell in Lier, between the Smoke and Lier, which has an ÅDT of 18 000. So we're talking about the main road between Sweden and Bergen, to put it very bluntly. We are talking here about a roundabout road to get outside the residential area. SV has voted in favour of almost all of the bypasses where we can help with the stretch of housing from a heavy load. It's pointless with such criticism. We have voted against all major motorway projects that we believe are environmentally hostile and land-consuming. We require a little more diligence in the construction of the motorway. It is probably what Igstad has hung himself in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e498	And E134 is probably going to Haugesund and not to Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e503	Arne Nävra and SV are opposed to most of the New Ways proposed, and the budget has now also been reduced from 5.6 billion. DKK to SEK 4.2 billion. kr. One example is Ulsberg–Melhus, which Arne Nävra and SV voted against when it was dealt with in June. It's a road that the State Road Service would have as a two- or three-field road, and you could increase the speed from 60 km/h to 75 km/h. Then New roads came on the track. They reduced the cost by 20 pst, got better visibility and better security. Then we get a velocity up to 90 km/h. And everyone who runs that stretch today knows that most of the salmon are transported. So why is SV against this path?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e510	Going into individual projects is never easy. We're basically looking at this. I know that the representative Jon Gunnes knows the basic vision of SV. It's like we're trying to scale down, to the best of our ability, four-field highways to two- and three-field roads. We have just argued that it actually has very great effect, very great utility. It makes great economic and socio-economic sense, so says the State Road Administration in general in its new report. We have to transfer that to each project – we have to try to transfer it to all of these projects that we get on the table here in the hall and in the committee. Then we have to say that we can say no to this, we can say yes to this. So SV says no to motorway projects if we have no other choice. Otherwise, we point out that if we have two alternatives, it has to be scaled down. In this case, there should have been two or three ways, but if there's an intermediate solution here, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e516	The SV's alternative budget cut over 2 billion. kr for construction of new and better roads – or motorways, for which SV like to call it. In our VG, SV presented a $450-billion cutlist. kr for road construction. When you go in and look at the list, almost half is – approx. 220 B.C.E. kr – cut north of Steinkjer, where no motorways are planned, but only the normal two-field road with a yellow middle stripe. In a few years we will have zero-emission transport in Norway. The climate argument for not building roads is being eliminated, while there may still be good reasons to reduce urban car traffic. But the question is, why does SV think that it is wise to bet on public transport and subsidise increased mobility of people in cities, but not to bet on road construction that provides greater mobility for people in districts, where values are created? Is this district-friendly policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e521	If it had been like that, it would not have been district friendly. That is why we do not stand for what the representative here says. We transfer money to racial security and safer roads. We want to give priority to the districts. We've inserted 7 billion. kr more to the municipality hall, among others. to strengthen the maintenance of the county roads. They've got a heavy responsibility in jail. There is a kind of declared ‘truth’ that is inherited here, a kind of prejudice against SV’s attitude to roads in the districts, and it is used infinitely. We say e.g. that we should strengthen the route between the ferries on the so-called ferry-free E39. We're going to have yellow midstrips. We're going to have a race, we're going to have wider roads, we're going to have middle parts, we're going to have a race, we're going to have wider roads, we're going to have middle parts, and so on. Think about how many miles we could get with safe ways of use instead of this giant tomato that the government parties stand for. That's the SV's position, and that's the general attitude we're going to have to maintain here – I kept saying – Dovre falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e526	The representative Nävra clings to the State Road Service report on using two- and three-field roads while increasing the ÅDT to 20 000. I imagine a major challenge in traffic management on many sections of that mindset. It's interesting when they're also going to focus on the environment, because we're going to get the stamping of a vehicle on those roads. I wonder how the representative thinks we're getting a better environment by making vehicles more tighter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e531	I think the representative can ask all the professional environments about, for example. use of energy when increasing speeds from 90 to 110 km/h. That's a very interesting question. Now it's a mantra for the Progress Party that they're going to drive at 110 km/h anywhere if that's possible. Then energy consumption is increasing enormously, and at least it is not environmentally friendly. You have to take that into account. There's too little communication here in the hall, and it's whether it's electric cars or fossil cars. That's actually an important point. I'm leaning on the State Road Service, which is the department store, there's nothing I'm sitting in the boys' room and I'm writing alone. This is a subject that writes. Should we not trust the trade union in traffic management – the state road system – that has been doing this for many years? I prefer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e538	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e543	The biggest challenge of our time is the climate crisis. Within the transport sector, we have done a lot, and we have to do a lot to contribute to lower and no CO2 emissions – success with tax exemptions on electric cars, electric bicycles have become better and cheaper, even electric bicycles have now become both popular and very available. Unfortunately, there's a slightly unfair loan market, we have to do something about it, but even a man my age has to admit that electric car parking is effective, and mobility rates are increasing. On the electricity side we are now more and more used to the fact that the ferries are electric and go quietly, and there is no exhaust smell for us passengers. That's pretty amazing. I really look forward to the speedboats being electrified. They are stagings within CO2 emissions and emit 4 times as much per passenger kilometre as e.g. aircraft, and 90 times more than railway. We big-time representatives travel a lot, and I think in the last two years I've tried most of the means of transport. In the cities my bike is my preferred means of transport, but a little outside and not least on the medium distance is the railway which is the most pleasant of all. Unfortunately, it takes too long between the largest cities, and that is why we have to resort to airplanes. Electric aircraft exist, and I have been a passenger, but unfortunately the number of passengers is currently a little too low and the weight limit is the same, so it has some challenges. But we're able to solve these challenges. There is a lot of research on electric aircraft, even in Norway, we are doing it. I – and more people with me – have a great hope that the electric aircraft can take over much of the polluting domestic air traffic within a few years. Norway’s short-haul network is ideal for operating small or medium-sized electric aircraft. But back to the railway: almost 80 million passengers use the train in Norway in one year. It's becoming more and more popular, and the number of passengers has increased incredibly in recent years. But the potential is even greater, and 100 million passengers should be reached by 2025. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we have now come a long way on the new Folloban, with the halving of travel time between Oslo and Ski. There will be amazing conditions for the passengers on the Eastfold Railway. Double tracks on the Westfold track will increase frequency and passenger numbers. We are approaching Hamar with an efficient and attractive route. Modernisation of the Tournament begins next year. It's a small path today, but it has a huge potential for doubling the number of passengers. The railway has a much better quality, and the Vossaban has a great potential. New train sets are purchased, new and longer crossing tracks are built and put into service. Digital signalling systems are being developed, which can make paths safer and more efficient. Offensive train operators are in place in the South, in the middle and in the south of North Norway, and now we will also have a great opportunity to get more travelers to the West. That Vy won the offer at Bergensbanen, is great. Unfortunately, we have too many errors and delays on some routes today. The left wants us to focus more on modernising and maintaining the railways. Extension of sections is also high on the agenda. The new Ringerix Railway is under construction. The left is very pleased with the grips that have been done on the railway in recent years, and not least we have great hopes for the next few years. We will explore the possibilities for extending the North Norway Railway from Bodø to Tromsø and explore the potential for high-speed trains between the cities that currently have the highest air traffic. We can get the shipment about 70 pst. of all aeroplane passengers between e.g. Trondheim and Oslo by train whose journey time falls in 3 hours. The left will ask that we take a serious investigation, and in the Granavolden Declaration we have got this as a separate point. We ask if this project can be realised with a public-private collaboration, and then we get passengers a completely different experience from today's stressful flight. This can be a huge contribution in the face of climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e562	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e567	I know that Gunnes is very concerned about bringing down the emissions from the transport sector, and that he and his party have actually been one of the drivers, I think, for a policy that very many here in the Chamber are behind, that future traffic growth in cities should be taken by bicycle, walking and public transport, and that we should have zero growth in car traffic in our major urban areas – the so-called zero growth target. But now we have heard in the last few months, and also from this pulpit in the autumn, especially from speakers from the Progress Party, that they must now adjust or further develop or change the zero growth target. So my question is, what does the Left mean about the zero growth target? Is the Left still behind the zero growth target – zero growth in car traffic in the large urban areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e572	Yes, the left is behind the zero growth target, and then we have agreed in the Granavolden statement that we're going to measure it against some other parameters as well. That's the degree of pollution – we took the cars first – we have noise, we have traffic damage, and we have land planning, which is important, and which the car is with and affects. The dialogue and debate on how this will be designed in the future, we are very much in favour of taking, and I am absolutely sure that the government parties will get into a fine arrangement that everyone is satisfied with and that still limits the number of cars. That's where the main gravity is going to lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e577	It's a little hard to see what Gunnes now means. Zero is an absolute, it's not possible to evaluate or revise zero. Either it's zero, or it's not zero. So my question is, what does it mean to further develop the zero growth target? If there's zero growth, one can't develop zero. Either it's zero, or it's not zero. Is it going to be a new measure in addition to the zero growth target, or what is Gunnes now really trying to explain?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e582	That's how we're going to negotiate this, and the zero growth target is obviously within that parameter today with the number of cars. And then you have to include some other parameters to measure it up against, and we'll see what these negotiations bring about in terms of how it's going to be designed. But I think it makes sense to see this in its entirety, because the car is to the detriment, of course, the number, but also in relation to other challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e588	I understand that the representative Gunnes is satisfied with urban growth agreements. They're at $8.5 a.m. kr from 2020 to 2029. That's 850 million. kr a year, and it's 1 billion. kr in increase in Oslo-Akershus from 2020 to 2021. In the so-called toll agreement that the government agreed on at the end of the campaign, extra money was found for the largest cities, which I have now described. But there was a quick disagreement about what the money was to be spent on, and this is a bit in the extension of what Myrli overall asked for instead. Oslo Left proposed to double the toll charge in Oslo during the rush period and said it was completely in line with the government's new toll agreement, which unfortunately the Progress Party disagreed with, you thought. Others might think it was positive. What are the consequences of the government’s toll agreement for the Oslo drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e595	It must be remembered that the money now offered to these four cities is – as I understand it – really just Trondheim who has accepted yet. The Center Party is in charge of that town. It is that of that money half should go to the purpose of collective action that they want locally. We have very much faith in local governance and local participation in this. Then there's also going to be a reduction in toll collection relative to the total number of drivers. How they will then design the recovery in relation to the total amount will be up to local authorities to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e600	The left shall be praised for two pronounced green positions in the last. The edge of the ice – where should it be? Then there's one more thing: Ferry-free E39 – there's State Secretary Hamre out there saying something – amazing too. We also have signals from the Center Party, which puts question marks at Hordfast. That matter we must start to think about again, it is said from that team. It's starting to get exciting now in social issues. What I want to ask the representative Gunnes about is: what chances do the Left have of getting the Right Party and the Advance Party on better ideas on the matter of ferry-free E39?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e605	The left is behind the currently adopted NTP. There are three fjord sections mentioned on the E39 between Kristiansand and Trondheim. It's Rogfast who's already started. We'll finish that. It's Hordfast, who's in the second period, and it's the Moor axis. Those projects are left behind. Then there are the next four projects, which, of course, have not received any funding. They're planning, but the left clearly sees that there's a new way to think about autonomous ferries with faster transitions and other solutions. But it should be clear that the first priority of the Left is the yellow middle stripe, tunnel safety and race protection of the E39 between Trondheim and Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e612	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e617	The transport sector is facing major changes. We're getting more and more, we're going more, we need new, efficient and climate-friendly transport solutions. Technological developments are giving us entirely new opportunities and the sector is being reformed in several areas. The car fleet is electrified, green shipping is on the rise, the railway is revitalised and reformed, and the public provides framework conditions that encourage development and innovation. That's good. This government prioritises good framework conditions for the transport sector, because it is very important what framework conditions we as politicians impose. That's why I'm happy to be part of a government that has a systematic and long-term job of expanding, developing and modernising the transport sector, because that's what's needed. When the voters elected a non-socialist majority in 2013, we started to re-engage, and we started several reforms to renew the sector. Since then, the transport budget has increased by over 80 pst. Over 80 pst. increase in this budget shows real will and action, which these four parties have been united in. We're not just building the country, we're building the whole country. Only in the railway sector will nine new trains be phased in in the coming year. There will be improvements in train provision, the launch of a new, large project on the Dovreban, and in particular there will be increased activity in several of the major investment projects currently under way. Together with the necessary reform work, this will help to make the train more competitive. Transport policy is good district policy. Broadband, good and safe roads, good ferry connections and improved infrastructure allow you to live and work throughout the country. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that all households and private and public enterprises receive a good quality broadband offer. That's why the goal is that 90 pst. of households, high-speed broadband shall be available during 2020, fixed. At the same time, broadband development grants are increasing in the geographical areas where there is no commercial basis for investment. In fact, state intervention in this area is crucial for the development of broadband in the districts. This is good district policy. We have shown that we prioritise the sector through increased resources as well as by renewing it. In the time that comes, we need to use the resources even more efficiently. New and more environmentally friendly fuels will be developed. The use of intelligent transport systems will provide more efficient solutions and a more modern, adapted and greener infrastructure. This creates a better and more adapted transport day for everyone. We look forward to this in the Christian People's Party. Electricity policy in Norway has been and remains a success. This is not least because we have had predictable conditions from the government and that we have maintained the favoritism of a zero and low-emission vehicle. We will continue to do that, including: by continuing the tax advantages of an electric car on non-recurring taxes and VAT to achieve the 2025 target throughout the period. Good transport policy is also about establishing mechanisms for those who need a little extra organisation in our society. The TT scheme is an example of such a scheme. For visually impaired persons and others with sensory impairments, the national extended TT system is important in order to be able to live a normal and active everyday life. After several years of escalation, the national TT system will soon cover the whole country. It's important. It means too many, and I get a lot of positive feedback from individuals who simply say that they have got a new and better life through the extended TT system. As we now increase the allocation of the national TT scheme by a further 26 million. SEK annual, SEK 13 million. kr from 1 July 2020, users will be able to receive an even better offer in several counties. Now the scheme can be rolled out across the country. It is an important measure. I see that the Workers' Party is now also supporting this scheme, and that is good. But there is reason to remember that the Christian People's Party spoke for deaf ears when the red-greens sat with power. Now, with today's government, we've put in place a national funding system. It is not surprising that the Christian People's Party is voting in favour of the vote and against the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e641	I expect the representative of Gruvan to know well about the municipality of Egersund and all the great value creation that is taking place on the island of Eiger Island. There's both the supplier industry, deep water shale, maritime clusters and much, much more. In the context of the 2019 State Budget, i.e. for the current year, there is a comment from a Joint Committee calling for measures for Eigerøy to be taken. The community is screaming for help to get an old bridge fixed. It is the only way to access the island, it has wide-ranging challenges, and it has also introduced weight limits. In the context of the state budget we are discussing now, for 2020, the Committee had to make a almost equivalent remark about the bridge, as no work had been done on it. Can the representative explain why the government, of which the Christian People's Party is part, will not follow up a unanimous remark from the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e650	I am familiar with the conditions around Egersund and the need for a better infrastructure around the area, which has both a rich business life and a great potential for further development. Eigerøy bru is an example of an important measure that should be put in place to exploit the potential of this region. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we want to follow up on the fact that the correction that is pointed to is necessary can happen. We will be committed to trying to put in place a system and a solution that can meet the needs of Egersund and the region in the future to further develop business and potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e657	That was a good answer, and I hope the Christian People's Party succeeds in that work. Mo in Rana has some of the same situation for her airport. In the budget procedure in 2019, a unanimous committee made a comment, inter alia: on ‘the pursuit of a dialogue and progress towards an implementation agreement enabling local funds to be launched as soon as possible’. Here too, a unanimous committee had to support a similar comment on the budget we are discussing now, for 2020. The locals are ready and will start to repair the airport, and I hope the representative Gruvan can now give an equally positive answer to this as he did to the previous question. When does the representative of Gruvan think the government is ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e666	I've been following developments and plans from idea to where one is now, as far as the airport at Mo in Rana is concerned. The Christian People's Party is very positive about that establishment. We think it has great regional potential. It could help lift the region both economically and otherwise in a completely different way than you can without it. I just have to say that I am full of admiration for the local initiative that has been in this matter. I am aware that there has been a dialogue between the local initiators and the ministry on this. There is now a tendering round out. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we now want to make arrangements so that the agreements can be put in place and the state can do the job they have told them to do, even when it comes to paying off at a necessary time, so that there is no delay in the start-up and further development of this important regional project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e674	It is proposed that 150 million be made available. kr in the year’s budget for national tourist roads, and it is excellent. National tourist roads cover 18 road sections with a total road distance of more than 2000 km and 161 projects will be implemented during 2020. National tourist roads have contributed to the profiling and uplifting of more exciting and attractive road sections other than the main road network. Visiting figures are good, and there is close and good cooperation with tourism companies. Contributions from county councils and municipalities have totaled 15 million. kr. I note that during 2020, the Ministry of Transport will look into the overall resource use of national tourist roads and what arrangements this scheme will continue. The centre party will express concerns that the values of these roads for the Norwegian tourism industry are not sufficiently recognised. What view does the Christian People's Party have on national tourist roads, and is there cause for concern for future appropriations for this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e685	National tourist roads can be very important in leading people towards areas of the country that we want to show to tourists and also take care of. We want national tourist routes to continue, and we also see the need for a review where one might go more closely into which roads should be given special priority, and that there must be a dialogue with regional and local authorities about the different projects. In terms of having national tourist routes: yes, they have an important function today. We want them to be able to play the role they have played in dealing with several attractions already today, including in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e692	I consider the representative of Gruvan to be a person who is factual, who is involved in the affairs of society and who makes his judgements. I also regard the representative Gruvan as a person who respects NTP to a great extent. It's also the way that NTP is a wish list in many ways, and if it's going to bind us sacred for four years, we might not quite follow it in an hour. I want to ask the representative of Gruvan the same question as I asked another representative here, about ferry-free E39. In the light of new technologies, new solutions for crossing these difficult fjords may have to be considered. So far, we've spent 1.8 billion. kr only for the planning of these difficult fjord crossings. Can the representative Gruvan look forward to reconsidering and reflecting on the positions around the ferry-free E39?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e699	Ferry-free E39 is an important project in the adopted national transport plan. I have to say, I'm a little surprised that SV, a party that thinks about the whole country, is kind of busy taking down the project that means so much to important parts of District Norway, where we have a big and important business. When we roll the NTP, we always have to go in and see what's possible, and what's not possible. We need to see how the socio-economic benefits are linked to each project. It also applies to the routes mentioned as important sections of the national transport plan in the case of ferries-free E39. But to cancel it in connection with the rolling we're about to go through, I won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e706	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e711	Building infrastructure is about building the country – building our country stronger, closer together, expanding construction and labour market regions and short-term travel distances for Norwegian business. By investing in infrastructure, we build the basis for further growth, economic viability and our common ability to meet the greatest challenges of our time. But if we're going to do that, we're going to have to do more than spend the most money. We just have to get more for each of the invested heads. As a result, over the years we have managed, the government has actually prioritised the transport sector both in resource use and not least through effective and necessary reforms. This means that there is a growth in the budget of over 80 pst. since the Progress Party entered the government in 2013. This means that we are making the biggest effort on the Norwegian railway since 1962, the year before my mother was born. It says a little bit about the dimension that is above the railway operation under this government. And we get down the maintenance run along our coast, despite the fact that there's no growth in the budget, because we use the money smarter. The way we've done it is we've done what has worked in other sectors before. We break monopoly, and when a break monopoly gets a new result. It was when we broke the road development monopoly and established the New Road, that road construction in Norway was speeding. That's when we brought down the costs and social benefits, not only because we spent more money building roads – because we did it too – but because we were going to have structural reforms that have actually proved to be effective. It's when we break the monopoly on Norwegian rail, we get better results, in the form of more companies that are now struggling to attract even more passengers, because passengers should want to choose the train. That is why we are implementing railway reform. It yields – billions saved for the state, which we can rather reinvest in new infrastructure, more train equipment, better route provision. It seems to break monopoly, and it seems to modernise the state. So we're not done with the reforms, but we're in the process. We continue to reorganize the State Road Service so that they can come in earlier and learn from what we've done with the New Road, when we're now organizing division. We cut down on the charges for aviation to make sure that people in the whole country get to use the only collective service that a lot of people have, that's just their local airport. We're digitizing services, which isn't just about moving the service away from personal contact and over on the mobile phone, because it's not a point in itself, but it gives a massive decentralization of services to the population because we're moving the services all the way home, or any other place you can think about taking on a mobile phone, iPad or computer. It is the modernisation of the public sector that gives us good results in the transport policy. And we're going to do that at the same time, we're going to follow up everything we have to do. We must have greater control over the transport sector, and that is why we are strengthening it in the 2020 budget. New technologies are speeding up. Among the attractive ones that many in Norwegian business are investing in now, drone technology – strengthened investment in the 2020 budget. R & D project and not least testing through Pilot-T are priorities in the 2020 budget. We clear up legislation, we try to move goods from road to rail and sea, we simplify for business and for people most, and we continue to cut tolls through the toll agreement, which in this budget gives great results both in our major cities and in our districts. In sum, this helps to build our country stronger, to make sure that we have a business that goes around and that creates profitable jobs throughout the country. Therefore, the government will continue to build the country in 2020 as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e730	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e735	According to press reports, an ambulance plane was one night on its way to Kjevik airport in Kristiansand to pick up a sick patient to be treated in Oslo, but the ambulance plane could not land at Kjevik airport because it is now no longer manning to receive ambulance flights at night. In the past, Kjevik and other airports had crews so that in case of emergency, they had arrangements that allowed personnel to be called and they could take ambulances at night. So now it's cut – understand who can. Actually, I was going to ask questions about this vote, but since this is not rejected, I expect it to be true. My question is, can the Council of State defend this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e742	Emergency response at Norwegian airports shall be good enough, and that means that one must have personnel to summon. I also follow this up with Avinor, and they have reported, as they have also stated, that there were special circumstances that made this not proper that day. It's my job to make sure that Avinor understands the responsibility they have when it comes to this, and of course I follow it up, as the owner of Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e747	Now the concept is that the preparedness must be ‘good enough’. It could be a little bit fluid. But I'm very pleased with the signals from the Council of State. I interpret it as he does not think this is acceptable. Now there's been so much discussion about chaos with the ambulance planes in North Norway that we can't take it anymore. We have to make sure that our airports can take ambulance flights even at night. Our country looks like it's absolutely necessary that they do. I have recorded that the reason for what happened at Kjevik is that Avinor is through a large savings plan, which is initiated by the government and the Ministry of Transport. My question is: what is the Minister of Transport doing now to prevent the cuts in Avinor from going beyond the security and preparedness of Norwegian airports?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e754	There is no reason to compromise on the level of safety in Norwegian aviation. That's an independent supervision that's going to follow. And Avinor is aware of that. They said they had a special case the night it was shown, and I've already said here that I want to follow this up in the dialogue I have with Avinor. That means we're going to follow the requirements that apply, and we're going to have Airports that are able to handle their responsibilities, in line with the leads that have been given, both from us as a regulator and from the supervision as a supervisory authority. And the representative can assume that this will be followed up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e760	It will be changed to another highly topical theme. There is winter in Norway, it is often in December, and then many trucks stand in the ditch, or if they are not in the ditch, they stand in the road and stop traffic. Many of those trucks are unfortunately foreign. Yesterday, it was E6 in Northland, I think it was in Southfold that was closed. A wagon train had the case, as it is said, and the traffic did not pass. In reality, Norway was divided into two. The alternatives were either to take a ferry around Bodø and over to Lofoten or to drive around Sweden – a distance of ten miles extra. Something drastic has to be done to get the dangerous car combinations away from Norwegian roads. How does the Minister for Transport respond to the proposal to establish a transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e767	The party of progress has previously taken up the case, and that means I've gone to the elections on it. Now, the government has not concluded that it has been necessary so far, and it is based on the fact that it is possible to use other mechanisms to increase control activity, through the increase in rights that are now coming to the State Road Agency, which we have put in place in the budget for 2020, through cooperation with the police, but also with the Labour Inspectorate and customs office. I was as late as yesterday at the Swedish border. We stopped all the vehicle trains that came in across the border for a period of time. It gives total chaos, but it works. Then there are four levels of cooperation: the Labour Inspectorate, the police, the customs office and the State Road Administration. In some cases, these checks mean that we actually get to check and separate the cars that have nothing to do on the Norwegian side, whether they are foreign or Norwegian. That verification shall continue with increased strength even into the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e772	I have seen that Norway's Lastebileier Association and other operators in the transport sector have strongly advocated coordination of the resources used in the posts also mentioned by the Minister of Transport, i.e. the State Road Administration, the Police, the Customs Authority and the Labour Inspectorate, and they have launched what at least some people call transport police. You could call it what you want, but at least that's the name that's been used. I understand that no one today has an answer on how this organization should be, and I also understand that the Progress Party is to establish a transport policy. But is that the government's policy? Does the government continue to work with a proposal to coordinate the four control modes that have a responsibility here, and to establish something like a transport policy? Is that the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e777	The answer is two-part. Yes, the government is actively coordinating the control, but also the flow of information between the different levels. For example, the government no Statens vägvesen uses to retrieve documentation that the Labour Inspectorate later assesses. When it comes to solving the problem – what has been the clear intention of the Progress Party to put in place a transport policy, simply to ensure more effective control and supervision – the answer to that is yes. The government is working on it, we've implemented more grips on it already and will continue to look at possible improvements in it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e782	It'll be more expensive to fly on the runway network. There's going to be higher fuel prices. It'll be more expensive to commute. Government toll rates are lower in districts than in cities, of which high toll rates. There is growth in public passenger traffic, especially in central areas – and that is good – while at the same time we have a collapse in maritime and rail freight traffic. There is cheap road freight traffic, and traffic is growing rapidly, but there is low road standards in the districts, traffic-hazardous county roads, lack of maintenance as well as high ticket prices and poor supply of public transport in the districts, and low prices and good urban offers. Many of the measures here are good, while others are deficient, and the digital everyday life is enormously different in this country. Does the Council of State agree that we are now creating an a team and a b team in Norway, based on where people live?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e789	No, but it's quite right: it's going to get up early and collect the maturity that the Center Party's seventeen for when they had a hand on the wheel of Norwegian politics for decades. It has been too bad maintenance, not only on the county road network, but also on the national road network. There isn't a stake on the railway, as it is now. There are no other solutions to the issue of goods nutrition. So it's sometimes a little bit of a bore to go back to the center part. But we're in full swing, and it happens at an increased rate. That's why I think the most important thing this government is working on, is actually contributing to investment, building the country closer together. Looking at the development of the road network now, between the major regions of the country, the E6 through the Gudbrand valley is also a road for North Norway – or for the sunmers, for that matter. And the systematic road construction that is now taking place is happening under our government. But the center part depends on SV, which will stop the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e796	Yes, much of this answer I've heard many, many times before. There is no doubt that there is a lot of money spent on transportation projects, and that money is granted by people sitting in this room. What I'm asking is how this money is prioritised. Both when you break monopolies, when you digitize Norway, as it is said, and when you reorganize the large state agencies, the question remains the same: is it a goal to break the inequalities between the districts and the central struts? Because they're there, and then it's a bit striking that we're talking about a lack of development of the transport policy when the Senter party crashed. This government has been holding it for a while. So, will the strategic plans of the government now talk about, reduce the differences between the districts and the central struts? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e803	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e808	The Council of State claims that we can already say that rail reform is a success. That he dares – before we have seen how this disaster turns out in four to five years! How does the Council of State feel about the air ambulance? It saves 5.4 billion. 10 years in Packe Nord, it's said. I have a correspondence where the Dales Department obviously asks the Railway Directorate to glorify this reform. They want numbers of savings. The reply letter says it is black on white that these numbers cannot be used as Dale does: ‘This is initially not directly comparable numbers, as we include: not taking into account the expected growth in revenue, the Vy Group AS had been responsible for the distance during the period.» Does not the Council of State follow in its own department, or does he deliberately lie about these figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e818	As usual, SV operates with tile nail instead of coming to recognition, i.e. rail competition provides through all the three traffic packages that have been on the market, several departures, several trains that walk per day, compared to the state of the day. Several passengers are expected to enter the Norwegian railway system, and the price for taxpayers goes down, with the result that we get the ability to reinvest in the Norwegian railway system. I have said – and I would like to repeat – that we are saving billions of dollars on these traffic packages. If it's 10, 11 or 12 billion, obviously SV can have a discussion about it. They can have it in peace, because they have been opposed to saving a single penny of this, and with it taking away the possibility of continuing to invest in a future-oriented Norwegian railway that we are going to make the best for passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e825	It still seems like the government will use these numbers. I also notice that representatives of other government parties here in the hall have consistently used wrong numbers. They're talking about savings of 12 billion. kr. There's a number sitting down. It must not be used further in this room. That's wrong. It's a direct calculation error. It's the misuse of numbers. It's demagogic to sell a sausage that's not good. In the case of Packe Nord, we've calculated this. If we don't take into account everything else, i.e. maintenance, cleaning, etc., that we could input, the number is 3.6 and not 5.4. That would be it all the way. It's about billions of dollars that are the wrong use of numbers. It's not tile nailing. May the Council of State be kind and promise that he will not use the figure of 12 billion? Is there anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e833	It would have been tempting to say that the answer is no, but I'll do the answer a little longer. The point is that SV would not save a penny. One would have increased costs compared to the offers that are now coming in, one would have had fewer train departures than the ones that are now coming in, and one would not have been given the renewal that the railway reform is now giving in to the whole railway sector. It would have reduced the capacity to invest in the infrastructure. And the funny thing about several of the opposition parties' alternative budgets now is that the savings that are in the 2020 budget because of these competitions use one to finance activity. They've begun to use the gain of a railway reform that is opposed, and as a repeat that one is opposed. The only thing the opposition's policy has in common is that it's not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e838	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e843	While this debate is taking place, the elected representatives of the Norwegian Civil Service Team (NTL) are meeting with the Air Safety Authority. They are trusted in Avinor, and the meeting has its background in Avinor having a saving program up to 2021 where they will save between 400 million annually. SEK 600 million. kr. This is what the NTL trustees believe has already led to attenuated preparedness at Avinor's airports, and they have notified this. Avinor has defined himself away from a proper preparedness during periods of disease progression and at night. EASA, the European Aviation Safety Agency, has a rule that aerodromes can downgrade the safety guarantee to a lower category by what is called “unforeseen circumstance” — an unforeseen circumstance — for up to 72 hours. Reduced category means that fewer rescue crews are present at the aerodrome, which in turn leads to e.g. Boeing 737 cannot land without the pilot accepting reduced ground preparedness. This is one of the most common aircraft types in Norway. No later than Friday, a pilot chose security and went to Haugesund Airport instead of to Flesland, which was the original destination. Another case, in Kjevik, was mentioned in the reply. There could not be an ambulance plane landing earlier this year, when Avinor had cancelled the night watch agreement and closed the airport because there was no one who could not stop at short notice that night. I know that the savings programme itself is not the responsibility of the Council of State alone, but strong signals from him have strengthened the pressure on the board and the management of Avinor. Of course, when the National Audit Office comes up with criticism of cost increases in the company, it has to act. But no later than April this year, the director of Avinor said: ‘Safe and stable operation is always essential.’ And he went on to say, «Good quality and good customer experience are the key to success.» In the light of all of this, I wonder: who takes the cost of the savings when the airlines, due to their weakened preparedness, have to go to Haugesund to then transport the passengers on the ground to Bergen? After all the sun brands, it is customers, passengers and airlines who take the costs and the disadvantages. Good customer experiences can hardly be called when savings are transferred to the customer. We in the Workers' Party are incredibly happy in Avinor. We are incredibly happy in the Avinor model and all the great people who work every day to make sure that residents get where they are going, and that we have a business life that can carry out its services from places throughout the country, which also makes value creation happen across the country, despite the government's centralisation lever. We are therefore concerned that this helps to weaken the company's good reputation and future existence. However, our concern is that security and preparedness must be the most important part of the company's operations. That is why we believe that the Council of State must now clarify the emergency situation in Avinor, so that the trust and trust in the company does not get confused in a fight for kroner internally in the company. So to the government councils: Listen to the trusted ones, listen to them when they report concerns about the situation. It is not certain that the trade unions are only fighting for wages and hours of work, which one has a good habit of believing in this government, but that they are simply concerned about the future of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e872	The overriding and long-term objective of transport policy is a secure transport and communication system that promotes the creation of value and support for the low-carbon society. The renewal and improvement of transport and communication infrastructure is an important and priority task for this government. Many rightly claim that the best means of strengthening business and facilitating value creation and construction across the country is investment in infrastructure. In it lies both road, track, collective solutions and IT. Since joining in 2013, this government has increased the transport budget by 80pst, and both road reform and rail reform have freed resources to build more roads and roads faster and at less cost. At the beginning of December, I was so lucky to be on the opening of Ruggtvedt – Dørdal on the E18, a 16,5 km long four-field road for which New Road was responsible. This distance was built in 2,5 years at a cost of 30 pst. under the frame. This shows that the creation of the road carrier has been a success, and it is with great wonder that a record is that several parties in the opposition will still reverse and shut down the company. It seems to me that I have little respect for the taxpayers in Norway. Another major historical event in my home state Telemark is the opening of the Mäelefjell tunnel on E134 between Seljord and the municipality of Hjartdal. It's a 100 pst. State project which started in 2013 with a tunnel of 9,4 km and 1,1 km new road, at a cost of 2 billion. kr. This will reduce the Seljord-Notodden distance by 10 km and provide a time-saving of 18 minutes for heavy traffic, as well as linking the working regions closer together. With regard to the IT area, we have seen a strong development in the development and access to high-speed broadband in recent years. During 2019, 100,000 more households have access to high-speed broadband, and 10,000 of these have been developed in areas where there is no commercial basis for investment. There is a great deal of effort for the coming financial year, and the promise for 2020 is 256 million. kr – which from 2020 will be managed by the county councils. The target of 90 pst. high-speed broadband shall be provided by households during 2020, on a permanent basis. One of the main drivers for increased productivity in both the public and private sectors is digitisation. Technology development opens up new ways to organise and provide better service provision and new ways to give users access to public services. Norway has good intentions for success in digitisation. An index measuring EU countries plus Norway, Iceland and Turkey on digital infrastructure for 2019 shows that Norway is ranked number five in Europe after Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and Denmark. Digital competences and participation in the whole population through the life cycle are a key element in extracting the benefits of digitalisation in the public and private sectors. An example is from the Posten's signing service, which has passed well over a million signatures since its launch in 2016. More than 500 public and private enterprises have signed the Post Office to simplify their processes, and according to calculations, this solution has saved 95 annual works. Hi Loan Box was 94 pst. of the signings in 2018 digital and made through this service. The solution will make it easier for the user and free up labour for other tasks. Our society is becoming increasingly dependent on electronic communications, and as Norway is so far ahead of digitisation, we as a society are meeting the vulnerability challenges at an early stage. The threat situation is acute, and electronic communication is a critical input for all societal functions. An ever-changing threat image makes it necessary to adhere to public sector IT security. Since digitisation is a global phenomenon, IT policy must be developed in an international perspective. Norway should be present in the forums where this policy will be developed, for example. OECD, EU, UN, G20 cooperation and Nordic-Baltic cooperation. I refer to the budget, where, among other things: is set to 73.8 million. to participate in EU programmes in which Norway participates under the EEA Agreement and which relate to the development of the information society and electronic management. Finally, it is very positive that the government sees so clearly the need to invest in IT, and that it strengthens this area by establishing and bringing together all the responsibilities under its own Minister of Digitalisation in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e897	Since the Progress Party got the Minister for Transport, the investment has increased by 80 pst. It clearly shows that it is the Progress Party that is the Road and Car Party. I'm so lucky that I come from North Norway, and to have only ministers of transport from the West, I must say that these two Westerners have definitely understood the continent better than many of those who have been before them. In fact, highway investments in the north have tripled during this government. Under the red-green, there was an annual average of 1.4 billion. kr which was granted for national road investments in North Norway, while in the time of the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport, an annual average of a total of 3,2 billion has been given. kr to the national section. One does not build a part of the country with talk; one builds it with decisions, money and, for example, with decisions. asphalt. This is what the Progress Party and the government are doing. 40 B.C.E. kr shall be used for investment projects in North Norway in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029. The representatives of the centre party here today will probably spend a lot of time talking about the lack of appropriations for the county roads during this government. Well, it's no surprise that the party that's more concerned with talk than with action will try to create such an image. When the Centre Party was in the Red-Green Government, the administrative reform was implemented – a reform that led to the transfer of responsibility for and management of 17 000 km of highway and several ferry links from the state to the states. These were road sections with a significant maintenance set-up and the reform was carried out without sufficient additional resources being allocated to the counties to discharge their responsibilities. The reality is not only that the Central Party didn't do anything when they put in government; they are themselves involved in ruling most county municipalities in the country, including Northland, where I come from. There they sit with the county councils for transportation, and neither do they manage to prioritise well enough, despite increased appropriations from the state. In the Nordic region, the training offer and the quick boat and ferry services for the coastal population were cut, so this is done on the watch of the Central Party. A few days ago, we also saw that it happened in the West, in More and Romesdal. Through our time in government, we have invested in transportation all the way, including county roads and racial protection. Since 2013, the total of the county roads has increased significantly every single financial year, and for 2020, we are also establishing a new grant scheme of 100 million. kr for highways carrying large commercial goods. Some would claim that it's a modest sum, but it's a start, and it's definitely something the red-greens didn't judge when they crashed themselves. In the north we live largely by the sea. Then it is not only the road that is important, but also the infrastructure along the coast. In 2017, we established a temporary subsidy scheme for road-to-sea freight transfers. The scheme of grants has contributed to the creation of several new maritime transport services and significant freight transfers with relatively small resources – an important measure to reduce the number of trailers on our road network. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we are now making the scheme permanent from 2020. The protection system for fishing ports within the national transport plan includes, inter alia: Gamvik and Berg municipalities have got a gunner agreement. The overall framework for this gunning agreement is 550 million. kr. There is a great deal of gap in the fishing ports to be transferred to the county municipalities. It is claimed that it does not provide funding to discharge that responsibility. Then I want to spend some time on facts: In the period 2013–2019, the project funding for the investment has been 478 million. kr, and all projects in Nordland have been in 2016, 2017 and 2018 – none in 2013 or 2014. Repair and maintenance in the same period has been 86 million. DKK and grant to municipal fishing ports of 92 million. SEK – a total frame of 178 million. kr. Distributed over seven years, it's $25 million. kr. What is contained in the framework transfer to the county councils in e.g. Nordland, I guess it's about. 50 million. kr for 2020. In other words, it's $25 million. kr which may continue to be used for operations and investments. Then it is worth mentioning that all the projects in the Nordic region are in the last part of the NTP period, and it is not unnatural that they were not included. Northern Norway is the part of the country of opportunity, with considerable resources and entrepreneurial potential. That part of the country is missing is labour and youth. The relocation is a fact, and the latest up-to-date figures show that the population is falling at record speed in all the three northernmost states. Blame on the government is a dead end. All the numbers show that never before has gone so well in the north. The arrows point up, and the possibilities are many. Perhaps the politicians from the left have to go on their own and ask what they themselves have done in the counties they rule, in order to preserve the scattered settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e916	The Dale Council said in its reply yes that the differences in the provision of transport in the districts and the country will otherwise not be reduced with this budget and the budgets of the future. I'm sure the council was also a little worried about all the work you had to do to clean up the corridors after the centre party had been there. Short answers – yes, it was said. That the differences don't get smaller isn't necessarily the right answer. I believe that the Council of States knows infinitely well what is the correct answer: the differences are getting significantly larger. But he won't say that – I've asked him about this many times. What we see in the budget is that once again it is a budget that reinforces the differences. Follow-up to the Toll Agreement between Government Parties, including: government funding increases significantly, is an example of this. In that agreement, the government will essentially lower the tolls in the big cities, while at the same time wanting to have a further commitment to collective action – an agreement in which the parties really have to go for a break in order to agree. In line with the government toll agreement of the parties, the government contribution to large collective projects has increased from 50 p.m. to 66 pst. The increase is paid flat over the period 2020-2029, irrespective of the progress of the projects. The total cost of the five projects concerned covered by the scheme is roughly estimated at about 53 billion. kr. The increase in the State contribution from 50 pst. to 66 pst. represents 8,5 billion. kr, i.e. 850 million. kr per year for the period 2020-2029. It has been followed up in the draft government budget for 2020. So the total state contribution in Oslo and Akershus is 2 088 million. SEK in 2020 and SEK 3,043 million. NOK 2021. I think it's possible to see where the money for the big projects goes in this country. The centre party wishes to use a limited part of this and to redistribute it to urban growth agreements. The toll payment has shot speed during today's government. Expected toll collection in 2019 is 13 billion. kr. The amount of tolls is also increasing. Most non-urban toll projects have a government share of well under 50 pst. Since 2013, the number of toll services has increased from 170 to 245. We in the Central Party have made a simple proposal, which the Council of State has heard many times, and which is under State guarantee for tolls. But nothing is happening that will lead to less bureaucracy and cheaper solutions. In practice, passenger growth in public transport in large cities will lead to increased costs for the county because each ticket is subsidised. The intention is good, but the consequences are now just getting clearer and clearer. A monthly ticket to public transport in Oslo costs NOK 750 – as much as a ticket from Dombås to Oslo one way by train. When the possibility of a minimum price is reduced or gone, while fuel costs are increasing, commuter deductions are being reduced and the fare is increasing on the short-haul network, we clearly see who is going to suffer. The government has increased the fees by 6.3 billion. kr since it came to power in 2013. The average donor has lost almost NOK 4000 in travel deductions since 2013 and is now left with only 44 pst. of the 2013 deduction. The centre party proposes to strengthen the commuting deduction by 0.5 billion. kr in the year’s budget. In the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the cost of removing the backlog on the county road network was estimated at about 58 billion. kr at the beginning of 2014, with an uncertainty margin of 47-77 billion. kr. Now when we look at this again, the estimate is the same. It's actually a little bit higher. That is, the aftermath on the county roads throughout this period has not led to anything. In the government budget, this will not improve. Among other things, money is set aside for asphalt work, as mentioned here instead, reduced by 32 p.m., from 960 million. kr to approx. 650 million. kr. The budget is putting up a huge effort on transportation around the big cities, and the districts are getting hurt. In its alternative budget, the Central Party will increase the allocation of 1 billion district roads. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e933	The government's aim is to create a sustainable welfare society, including for future generations. This means that we need to continue modernising and streamlining the public sector, facilitating new jobs in the private sector and making everyday life easier for most people. To achieve that, digitisation is one of the most important tools we have. Digitalisation and new technologies can contribute to increased value creation, innovation and sustainable development. However, it assumes that the digital base wall, in the form of broadband and mobile coverage, is solid and robust. Norway has world-class infrastructure: 99,9 p.p. of its households today has the opportunity to get broadband at a speed that is good enough to read newspapers, send e-mails and use public services online. Since the government took over in 2013, there has also been a formidable development in high-speed broadband, i.e. broadband at a speed exceeding 100 Mbit/s. In 2013, only 63 pst. by Norwegian households access to high-speed broadband, and only 11 pst. of households in spread-built districts had offers of fibre-broadbands. In 2019, the whole has 86 pst. by Norwegian households offering high-speed broadband, and we are ready to achieve the goal that we set in the Digital Agenda, which many thought would be demanding to achieve, namely that 90 pst. households should have high-speed broadband offers by the end of 2020. Also for mobile broadband, the development has been amazing: 98 pst. by households estimated to have indoor 4G coverage, against only 51 pst. in 2013. The market-based policy in which private broadband actors are mainly responsible for the development and financing of broadband offers has been in place for many years and is very successful. Stakeholders invested almost 10 billion. kr in the ecosystem and ecosystem services in 2018. As a result, around 100,000 new households were offered high-speed broadband only from 2018 to 2019. In some places there is no basis for commercial investment, and therefore the country also contributes money. In the State budget for 2020, the government proposes to allocate 256 million. kr in broadband grants. It's a record high level, about 56 million. kr more than in the 2019 government budget and a continuation of the high level granted in the revised national budget for 2019. This, together with local contributions, is likely to make it possible to provide up to 20,000 households with new or better broadband connections. In the summer, we felt that rain and landslides isolated Jölster from the outside world. The roads were blocked, and the inhabitants were without mobile coverage for two days. We can only imagine what it was like not to be able to call their loved ones or the emergency situations when the forces of nature came here and you needed it the most. Unfortunately, we know that we are going to experience extreme weather and accidents again. That's why we have to do what we can to strengthen preparedness. For the last six years, the Stortinget has granted 270 million. SEK to strengthen mobile networks in more than 40 particularly vulnerable municipalities. In at least one area of each of these municipalities, base stations have back-up power for three days and two times. For 2020, the government proposes to increase the programme for enhanced ecosystems by 15 million. kr. This will make it possible to continue work with full strength and include at least 10 new municipalities in the programme. Next generation mobile network, 5G, opens up a number of new applications. Smart cities, self-driving cars and health and welfare technologies are only some of the possible applications. The government has facilitated rapid 5G expansion in Norway, among others. through the early release of frequencies for 5G. Several 5G pilots have already been established in Norway and commercial deployment is expected to start as early as next year. This means that Norway is among the first countries in Europe to use 5G, and it shows that government policies have worked. In the government budget for 2020, the government has proposed increased resources for further efforts by national communications authorities to facilitate 5G. The government has started work on its own big message on the electronic communications market. Important issues in the big news will be security and preparedness in the ecosystems, how to facilitate increased competition – not least in the fibre retail market – and what goals we will have for broadband coverage after 2020, as we now seem to be reaching the targets we set in the Digital Agenda. I look forward to debate both in this room and in society, so that we can provide an eco-infrastructure that facilitates increased value creation, innovation and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e968	The Labour Party welcomes the government after considering the introduction of universal service obligations for broadband, and a proposal has now been sent to the hearing. The working party – yes, an overall opposition in the Committee – believes that broadband is an entirely basic infrastructure in line with the installed water and electricity. Several municipalities and county municipalities spend large sums on broadband development because it is absolutely necessary to increase the use of new technologies. We in the Workers' Party operate with almost twice as much money in our alternative budget for this purpose as the government. Why does the government not contribute more money when the need in the districts is so much, much greater?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e975	It is good that the Labour Party is also concerned that the population should have good broadband coverage throughout the country. It's an ambition that we share to the greatest degree. The government has greatly increased state grants for broadband development in recent years, and they are currently above twice as high as then, for example. The working party was put in government. It is important to stress that this money also triggers money from other sources. Experience has shown that we can say that the state funds we grant can trigger investments of up to four to five times the amount granted by the state. That means we get a solid and good bet. It is important that the State does not grant money at such a level that it contributes to limiting or slowing down the commercial expansion of the broadband market, which has proved to be a very successful model for Norway in recent years, as broadband coverage figures show with all clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e985	Thanks for the answer. I would like to inform you that Kåre Willoch did not have much money for broadband in his government either. Evolution is actually moving forward. Last week I had a meeting with a travel agency from Northern Ireland: Visit Plura outside Mo in Rana. It is a fantastic world-class cave diving business, and it is located in an area where there was no mobile coverage in the living room for the residents, nor in the company’s premises. They have called for the delivery of public broadband several times without success. They themselves have now had to do a lot of self-serving work in building a road to a mountain top and invested about NOK 300000 in reception and transmission equipment and its assembly in order to advance their business. Does the Council have any explanation as to why the large community does not contribute with good digital framework conditions to the development of businesses in District Norway with the greatest potential of this enterprise?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e994	Of course, the government is concerned that it will be possible to run a business throughout the country, and it will be possible to live throughout the country. That's why we have such an offensive policy for mobile and broadband coverage that we have, which has been shown to produce good results. It is quite right that Kåre Willoch had a smaller budget for state grants for broadband development, but it was also not a problem at the time. But it was to the greatest extent a problem when the Workers' Party last sat with the government force, and we have increased those ambitions greatly. It is important that we just make it possible for everyone to live where they want to in this country and have good access to digital infrastructure, so that they can participate in the digital services we provide from the public sector, and the opportunities it offers for private sector value creation. We share these ambitions, and of course we have to facilitate the offer even when the last households and businesses that do not have satisfactory coverage today. That's what we work with the actors to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1003	I want to go to some government council and I have had a line exchange about earlier. It's going on the copper network and what's going on there. In Egersund there was an entrepreneur who was unlucky, or not exactly enough, and did digging that led to a breach of a copper wire. Telenor actually refused this contractor to fix the fault they had made, for some reason. We have a proposal from the Center Party to investigate the impact of Telenor's plans to phase out the copper network. We get many enquiries from both residents and businesses that are concerned about both redundancy and government's lack of investment out in the districts. Does the Council have a full overview of how Telenor works in the field, and what will be the consequences after a phase-out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1012	We have a close dialogue with Telenor on the modernisation of this infrastructure. We're going to keep going, and the same goes for Nkom, of course, which has an important oversight function. Telenor has assured us that they will not stop maintenance on the copper network until there are satisfactory alternatives in place. I feel that Telenor is following up, but of course we're going to make sure that we're close to Telenor in that area as well. It is not satisfactory if people who have no other alternatives lose any connection because the copper network falls out. We just have to make sure that doesn't happen, and we have close dialogue with Telenor about it. We all agree on this. So it's a question of getting it into practice, and my impression is that Telenor is taking this in the most serious sense, and they also have a significant downside if they can't handle this properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1017	I went through the Glasshouse in Bodø only in December, and there lit a heavy poster against me from a window with the text: Freedom to choose – Telia, Telenor, Ice. It was advertising for different mobile companies. Many places in this country you can actually choose mobile companies, but there are still white spots on the coverage cards of these mobile companies. For example, neither Telia, Telenor nor Ice have coverage on Hongset in Brønnøy municipality. It's an area with many residents and more businesses. If you look at planned expansions in that area, it's still equally white. I have Telia and only get coverage inside the house through the copper network's Wi-Fi. There's no cover on the phone outside. What will the Council of State do to improve such situations? When can mobile users in such areas expect to have the freedom to choose a supplier?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1022	As part of the refurbishment of the copper network and thus the modernisation of the eco-infrastructure in Norway, the aim is for everyone to have better offers and greater choice than they currently have. For many, a fixed mobile broadband will be a good substitute for copper networks. Too many people want fiber to be a good alternative. As 5G is rolled out, it will also be possible to get speeds of more than 100 Mbit/s via fixed mobile broadband. There are a lot of opportunities here, and we have to make sure that the population across the country can take part in the opportunities regardless of where they live, whether it's on Hongset or elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1027	Now the Council of State did not respond as to why there are no plans to remove these white spots displayed in public documents. But I want to ask another question. It is no longer the case that only those with TV have to pay a license. In 2020, the tax that replaces the NRK licence, and it affects all who have income, almost 4.4 million taxpayers – much more than the number that have received licence invoices from the NRK. This means that anyone who does not receive DAB radio where they live or along the road they are driving must now pay for an offer they do not receive. What does the Council of State think that people have to pay over the tax bill for services they don't get?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1032	As the representative is very well aware, the NRK licence does not fall under my constitutional responsibility, so I will leave to the appropriate Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1037	Governments mentioned 5G expansion, and this is of course a very interesting area for Norwegian high-tech environments. I come from Buskerud, and we know very well about the Kongsberg bet and the technology environment there. Kongsberg is out early; Norway is out early. At the same time, a small question arises. Is that a little bit of joy? I don't want to be associated with conspiracies in Norway, far from it. I will build all my decisions on knowledge. But can there be a lack of professional content in the concern for health damage around radiation from 5G? It's a whole new frequency we're talking about. What has the government done, and what will they do to reassure those who are concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1044	Thank you for the question. It's a question that I know someone is dealing with in society, and it's important that we give good answers to that question, so that the population can have confidence in the infrastructure we have, and feel security even in the health sense of putting it into use. As far as I know, all measurements made with 5G equipment are good within the health professional recommendations for radiation values set by the health authorities. There should be no reason to worry about this. But of course, as the pilots continue to roll, we have had pilots for several years, so we have a basis for having our own opinions on this – we will also follow the fact that the radiation values stay at the level that suppliers have assured us they are on. This is a question I think we absolutely have to follow up on, but based on what we know today, there's no reason to worry about the radiation values of 5G.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1053	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I understand that the Council of State is concerned about the issue, and I expect that the department has also received some enquiries about this. We should take it seriously. I know that part of the environment belongs to environments that I do not share, but I also know that there are heavy professional reports on this issue that I think the Council of State and the Department should take seriously. I recommend, at least, that the Council of State inform well that reports are published if they are available and that separate investigations are carried out by the Department. This is a big, new bet where Norway is in the driver's seat, and then I think it's very important that we bring with us the whole body, the whole country, on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1061	It is important to stress that the frequencies we use are released frequencies that have been used for other purposes. It is not new that these frequencies are used. That radiation has been there in many ways already. Then there's a question of whether the 5G technology itself contributes to increased radiation hazard by using the frequencies that we've used in the past for other purposes. What I can say so far is that it's my clear impression, given what we've got from the health authorities, that the radiation values are well below the recommended values. Of course, we'll follow up on this in the future. I am concerned that we are taking into account the knowledge that must exist, from both home and abroad, on this theme in order to safeguard the population and ensure that everyone has confidence in the infrastructure and can use it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1068	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1073	National transport plan is a plan to spend thousands of billions on transport over the next 12 years. Now let's start at the third year. We are, of course, told by the government parties that this is the driving force of the times. That is what all the Ministers for Transport have said in the past. I'd like to remind you that the Workers' Party made $6 billion. kr more in its alternative proposal for NTP, and for 2020 we are fulfilling this by putting off 1.5 billion. kr more for transport than the current government does in its government budget. The government is now 21 billion. kr according to its own plan. So with the Workers' Party in government, the bet would be bigger and more complete. Nevertheless, transport authorities manage large amounts in terms of taxpayers’ money and tolls. This is money that has to provide added value beyond better road, rail, port, aircraft or increased accessibility. If we spend the money correctly, the priorities give us more value creation. Do we have the best entrepreneurial business, and do we give them good opportunities to compete with foreign entrepreneurs? We will achieve climate goals, provide local value creation, safe Norwegian jobs, increased competence and enough skilled workers. Unfortunately, we are constantly seeing that the government is more concerned with reducing the costs of the project itself than with the socio-economic benefits. There has become a one-sided focus on getting the projects large, with the lowest price as the decisive factor in the award of public contracts. This is documented wrong strategy. We have to look at what's best for society. In the last year, we have received a number of enquiries with concerns from contractors about low-level economic space and large contracts for which they are not able to compete, especially the OPS project, such as: The sotra connection, where I was visiting in November. A report from the Societal Economic Analysis on the order of the Entrepreneurship Association focused on eight major Norwegian public works projects with foreign entrepreneurs. It showed cracks at both cost and time in 11 out of 15 contracts. This also gives us huge extra costs. We hear about several permits in the construction industry, bankruptcies, low profitability and several foreign players who win tenders. So, even though this is the time's journey bet, Norwegian entrepreneurs warn that there is not enough room for them to participate in the competition. In addition, they are concerned about a significantly smaller road development on our county roads. We know there's a gap between 50 billion. kr and 70 brd. kr, and even worse with this year's government budget, with new tasks that are not fully financed, increasing ferry costs and that billions remain to be recovered under the tunnel safety regulation. The Workers' Party has also given more priority to the counties every year during this government. It's not like the county roads are getting worse and worse, it's also giving less regional value creation, and we're losing considerable competence. Entrepreneurship needs predictability, not just a promise that it might be 100 million. kr in your own bet on county roads. In these days we see that several roads are closed because of storm, race and flood. Not only do we need new roads, we also need increased priority for the operation and maintenance of the roads we have, adapted to the weather conditions that have now also changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1092	One might think that when you increase a budget by over 80 pst. in seven years, this would lead to some satisfaction both with colleagues here on the Stortinget and with those out there. Or when one after three bidding rounds can save around 1.2 billion. kr annually in passenger transport – money that goes well with other parts of the railway budget – then one would think that the opponents would adopt a more amicable approach to what is being presented. But no, we're being accused of ravaging the railway sector. Or when we increase the appropriations for the urban growth agreements far beyond what any other government thought about when they crashed – then it is said that it is not enough, and there is more to it. Now I have such a long time in politics that I am not directly surprised. But I still live in the hope that those out there who actually use the services notice a clear improvement from the past. There are several kilometres of road construction, urban environmental agreements and urban growth agreements, and there are several trains running. Although I understand that the opposition must be extremely careful to praise the government's efforts, perhaps they – in their quiet mind, of course – thought a positive thought about the historical effort this government has made in this sector. It can even mean that it's healthy to think positive. Let the Santa Claus sink and think: Maybe it wasn't so stupid with New Roads AS, who have not only saved us money, but also given us useful experiences related to efficient road construction? Or perhaps the outsourcing of rail transport provides opportunities for more trains, more departures and an even more customer-friendly offer to passengers? In transport policy, it is easy to get involved in individual projects — naturally. The railway debate bears the hallmark of this. We are very concerned with double tracks and electrification – how much and where. However, I believe that we need to become more concerned with the objectives we want to achieve than with the technical solution. It is worth noting that the government’s reference to the gradual introduction of a new route model from 2012 to 2014 has led to a strong growth in the number of passengers by train. Intercity traffic in the East has almost doubled in the last six years. A total of about 15 million people travelled by train in Norway in 2018 than in 2012, a total of almost 77.7 million passengers were registered in 2018. This tells me that we need to focus more on the chart and perhaps rely more on the professional expertise to decide how to achieve the goals. It is possible that many small improvements produce as good results as the large projects. There are four things that I want to focus on as important for all public transport. It's frequency, regularity, capacity and travel time. In a society like ours, mobility is important. We have a long-distance country that's back to you sparsely populated. There is no basis for rail-going collective services everywhere. Nor is it natural to imagine a massive expansion of high-speed rail. I think that when we can drive 200 km/h from Oslo to Road by train in a few years, it's probably too high speed to count here to land. I also do not believe in the myth that we should do without means of transport on rubber wheels, or planes, for that matter. A good and secure road system will continue to be a prerequisite for the development of economic activity and the development of competitive housing and labour markets in the whole country. If you want to spread your residence and use the whole country, you have to facilitate it through a transport policy where the different means of transport take advantage of their advantages in a sensible division of labour. Yes, even in the big cities, the car, the truck and the bus will be important. The big cities have other challenges than the rest of the country. Therefore, the use of measures to limit passenger car traffic takes place through several measures. It is not just a matter of reducing air emissions. Here the number of cars is a problem because it challenges land use. Urban packages and urban growth agreements are therefore needed – but perhaps better adapted to the individual urban areas. However, this is not the time to reverse this bet, as the Center Party adds. It is still important to contribute government funds, in particular to the largest collective investment. It may be that Siv Mossleth should think of two million people living in Oslo and the Vikings alone. It takes one's own, you have to transport so many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1109	In a newspaper lookup a few years ago, the Minister at the time said that one cannot pave the way for increased transport needs. It was in order to get more of the transport needs onto the keel. That was very well said. The follow-up to the National Transport Plan shows that the government delivers only 33 pst. of the investments adopted for coastal purposes during the first part of the planning period. It includes allocation to fishing ports, goods by sea, coastal culture, etc. Many measures are pending, measures that depend entirely on getting these funds to be realised. Historically large sums of money are being invested in transport, which also emerged from previous speeches, but budget lines for ports and the Coastal Plant are being reduced. Only for the Coastal Works there is a reduction of 3.1 pst. from last year, that's 100 million. kr less than the year's budget. The toll deal has eaten $1.7 billion. kr of the budget and have resulted in more of the money being spent on roads in urban areas. Railways have become synonymous with sustainability and have a good share of the budgets. This is well and good, but the bias is increasing, and the coast and north Norway are failing once again by a Right-Cyprus government. Fishing ports are of particular importance for the marine food industry, which is now placing on the market for more than 100 billion. kr. In particular, there are many projects in North Norway that want funding. The State budget means that only 34.3 million. NOK 154,8 million. kr for this purpose is transferred to the county councils’ framework grant in 2020. From January 2020 onwards, county councils will have to find money for the significant maintenance run at fishing ports. The letters of consultation from the region I come from, Finnmark and Troms, talk about 400 million. kr. Missing bets on ports give less goods from road to sea. The working party is clear that maritime transport has low infrastructure costs, less land requirements, less queues, less noise and fewer accidents than other modes of transport. In order to achieve common objectives of reducing climate-threatening emissions, investment in traffic hubs and ports is crucial in order to bring more goods to the cold. The working party wants to give more money to the Coastal Works. We want to maintain the professional environments that are built over time. We are afraid that the dismantling and transfer of tasks from the Coastal Works to the county municipalities is not the way to go. Port facilities tend to have several functions, and joint planning makes sense. The working party spends a lot more money on county councils and on fishing ports. We want investments in port facilities and the transfer of goods from road to sea. The coast is a bet area and is important for the green shift. The working party wants an increased bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1126	Aviation is and is becoming an increasingly important driver of economic development and decentralised settlement in Norway. That is why both we in the Right and the Government are concerned with aviation's framework conditions. Norway’s long-range countries rely on both large and small airports to create a well-functioning society, both for its citizens and not least for business. Air charges are a central part of the framework conditions of air carriers and, in order to meet the transport needs of society, industry and passengers, a properly distributed level of charges will be incredibly important. The government now has a change in the air charges at the hearing, proposing that the short-haul network be subject to tax relief, while foreign traffic is being increased. The electrification, use of biofuels and hybrid solutions will revolutionise the climate and environmental impact of aviation in a short time. With the short-range network in Norway, we will be able to become a leading country with the introduction of new technologies. In this perspective, it is incredibly important that Norwegian aviation and aircraft operators have a foreseeable framework for growth and development, which is comprehensive and which is sufficiently forward-looking to increase competitiveness and growth, not only domestic and foreign, but not least to counter large international actors. People’s needs and society’s need for increased mobility continue to increase — year by year — but we are so lucky that we are moving towards a zero-emission transport in Norway in a few years’ time. Technological development is going incredibly fast, people. Nevertheless, we see that the so-called environmental parties in this room are keen followers of the fact that we have to feel aviation shame, and they will impose dramatically higher environmental taxes on air travel in order for us to fly less. This will particularly affect the people and businesses in the districts, from which I come. That is why I have to admit that it was a little good when the Green Party in the North went towards its own party's dramatic budget proposal for an increase in the air tax. In a short time, aviation may be the mode of transport that produces the least climate and environmental impact. The ground operations from aviation are limited to one airport at each end. Then it is important that we politically facilitate the development of aviation even faster and in the right direction in the future, not that people should be ashamed and stop flying. We actually have to have more of that in the future. I think it's old-fashioned environmental policy to make it harder for people most. I also think it is old-fashioned to limit people's mobility with shame, bans and charges. We have to look forward, we have to facilitate to stimulate new technological solutions and make it easy and profitable for people to choose green. This is what we in the Right and the Government are concerned about. That is why electric car policy is a success and works, and that is why we are also developing a new industry on emissions-free solutions in the maritime sector that we can sell to the rest of the world. Aviation in Norway is important, it has a great future, and it must actually be communicated. Then, in the future, we must not just talk about trains as the most environmentally friendly means of transport, because it is aircraft and aviation that will actually take over. This is where we have to bet, on this form of transport that will bind the country together and increase people's mobility in the future. It will smooth the distance constraints, it will provide a boost for rural mobility, and it will not least facilitate a sustainable and profitable welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1141	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1146	I was sitting and listening to the post of the representative of the Progress Party, where he opened the door to establish that the Progress Party is the motorists' party and best friend, that now roads are being built like never before, and that a Progress Party State Council had to enter the Ministry of Transport to get things moving. What has happened since the last budget debate, I thought. Among other things, government parties have entertained the nation with toll chaos. It became a real louder. There were crisis meetings in the government parties, where the Left would negotiate tolls. The progress party on its side was finally negotiated, they said, but the Left would nevertheless continue to negotiate, uncertainly with whom, since the Progress Party once again said that they had been negotiated. Thus, the Prime Minister himself had to take the plane down from Iceland to see if it was possible to clean up the chaos around the Left and the Advance Party, which is also in government. So it was a wonderful touch: two government parties that split all the ways, a prime minister who didn't see what was coming, and all of this in one government. The state councils for the tolls were played out above the sideline. So what did it finally become? Well, there were a few dollars to reduce tolls except for the big cities, and the government was going to take a little bit more of the economy in the city packages. Otherwise, it's business as usual. The government keeps tolls in record every single day. So, even if the Progress Party does not give up an inch that they are against tolls, they have voted in favour of every toll project in this country here in Stortinget since 2014. It's unmistakable to look at. The representative of the Stordalen is still right: a government council from the Progress Party had to enter the Ministry of Transport to get things moving, and especially proudly the Progress Party and the Council of State could be over the speed of record collection of tolls. Then we come to the intercity expansion in Eastfold, where at least one of the government parties long thought it was built too slowly. The speed of the expansion of the Eastfold Railway down to Halden was to be accelerated. Then came the postponements. Nevertheless, the government parties could not expand faster than originally planned. But of course it was to be built, it was promised. Now it's not like that anymore, now the expansion of the Eastfold Railway is put in some drawer, I don't know which one. Perhaps the Council of State can answer that, and perhaps there should also have been a few crisis meetings in the Left and the Advance Party on the Eastfold Railway. The Eastfold course had earned it. Can the Council of State at all respond to this with the Eastfold Railway? When does the government-promised double track get to Halden? We're excited about that answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1161	To the representative of Lauvås, I can say that a wonderful touch often becomes a good cake, and the transport cake we are discussing today is good. There is certainly no more joy for a politician than to be reminded of political persuasion, and Frp people are reminded of the perseverance of transport policy every day. During the episode of the ash cloud some years ago, I drove from Oslo to Stavanger with the representative Pollestad, and he boasted of all the roads that the Stoltenberg government had got. But every day when I am now driving and see that it is being built even more, and that maintenance is being carried out, I am reminded that we have increased the travel budget by 80 pst. since we became a government in 2013, and that something is finally happening to the roads in this country. Thanks to the Progress Party in government, it now smells asphalt all over the country, and I am proud of the important work we are doing in building the country. Investment in transport is investment in value creation. Not only do we bind the country together, we also make Norwegian roads faster, more efficient and not least safer. The government is betting on four-field highways, and these are the safest roads we have. In all OECD countries, the number of deaths in traffic per 100 000 inhabitants is now low in Norway. So we have the safest roads in the world. In the West, there are many major road sections that were formerly known as death roads, where there are almost no more fatal accidents. By upgrading the road network, we avoid many tragedies. The progress party in the government makes Norwegian roads safer when we propose to spend close to 1.1 billion in the state budget for 2020. kr for national road safety and close to 800 mill. kr for separate distribution to county councils with paved roads. This ensures both the racial protection of vulnerable national roads and the possibility for county municipalities to prioritise measures to ensure their own pathways towards race. Racial protection is needed on both large and small roads. When I was elected to Rogaland County in 1999, one of the most important transportation projects we were presented was Ryfast. I remember that day today: it was spectacular, and, not least, it would cost 1 billion. kr. So I think now, 20 years after, we can say it was a little bit more expensive than 1 billion. NOK, but it is worth every penny that has been used and is to be used for this. It has great ring-effects for the whole North-Jear and for the Ryfylke, and the Jären gets tighter together. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport of the Progress Party is on the side of the drivers and listens to the concerns that have arisen regarding the tariff of the passages. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Transport is now in favour of the Ryfylketunelle costing NOK 112 for a normal car. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1176	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1181	Full storm and closed roads or columning are not uncommon over Haukeli. The Haukelivegen project shall improve the situation with two new and large tunnels. This week, both the Boknafjord connection on E39, Karmsund Bru and Haukelifjell on E134 have been closed due to wind. We're vulnerable, and everyone loses when the West's business loses. A strong industrial and export region needs better predictability. Betting billions of dollars on E134 over Haukeli is socio-economically profitable, and it's fixed in several contexts. The new Haukelivegen will also reduce travel time between the West and the East by one hour. In the setting of the current NTP, both Vågsli–Røldal and Røldal–Seljestad are brought forward as current projects to assess the acceleration of take-off during the first six-year period. Furthermore, the majority of government parties pointed out that E134 has been designated as a major route link between east and west and that the main point of improvement is precisely the Haukeli tunnels. The majority indicated that Röldal–Seljestad is a priority for start-up and completion in the second period. This means that State funding is possible from 2024 onwards. But one pointed out that the plan work for the route would soon be completed – and as far as I know, it is about to be – so the construction start can be earlier than this. One also assumed that the toll contribution could be used first, so that the construction start of the first Haukeli tunnel could be within the current planning period. I want to challenge the Minister of Transport to follow this up, so that we can get this important project started as soon as possible. The West deserves the same mobility as the rest of the country. Now we live with a road that is only open every time the ferry adds. Cars and people who are waiting are lost in quality of life and poor social economy, and it is short and good expenditure on income acquisition to build Rogfast and Hordfast. The road link E39 between Bergen, Haugesund and Stavanger is profitable, and we are talking about the largest population concentration outside the Oslo area. A region with more than one million inhabitants will be combined with a ferry-free route. Haugesund and Karmøy alone have a population that surpasses Finnmark, and is a region with a lot of industrial activity, large exports and a lot of internal interaction. It is important that we keep progress up on Rogfast, and that Hordfast is designed with the fastest possible start-up. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport has been very clear that this will happen, but we must be clear that Rogfast will be realised – and remove any doubt that prevails over this. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Haugalands package is underfunded. Of course, a larger state contribution would have been desirable, but it is equally desirable for the Ministry to deal with the enquiry that has come from the Steering Group about an adjustment of tariffs. Investments in transport in the West are profitable. We are a strong region that can contribute even more to the community if we bind more closely together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1195	I am a trained construction engineer and started my professional career in the State Road Administration as a coordinator for the operation and maintenance of tunnels from the region of Agder to Buskerud. It was under the Stoltenberg II government, and the budget was shameful. To be able to do some upgrades at all, e.g. in the Fosskoll tunnel, we had to establish stone facilities, and we didn't get money for that. We had to have contractors to peck ice caps in the tunnels to make sure the drivers didn't get them in the windscreen, because they didn't get money to freeze-proof. We had contractors who were out there and striped luminaires, because we couldn't afford the electrical system. The maturities were enormous. Nor was it better on the road network. The main roads in the South were in principle only two-field highways, accident-prone and life-threatening – the Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa of the Senterpartiet called E18. Between Tvedestrand and Arendal there was actually less than 200 meters between each direct exit to a house. It was a school road for our smallest children. Between 2004 and 2013, there were 180 accidents. 30 people were severely injured or killed on that road section due to the road standard. The worst thing is that this project did not even appear on the wish list of the Center Party and the Workers' Party. As a small point of light for the region, we thought that when the Gjerstad toll station was finally paid down, it was at least going to be removed, but the centre party decided, of course, that it should continue, and they even established one more to finance an old bicycle path somewhere else in the county. So if there's anyone who thinks the South is missing a Workers' Party and Center Party government, they're wrong. The working party, the centre party and SV were a nightmare, a nightmare that went over in 2013. Then came the Progress Party in government and showed how to do it – established tunnel upgrade projects across the country. The maintenance run went down, the transport budget increased by 80 p.m., and the deadway between Tvedestrand and Arendal has not just begun; it has been completed – three months before the time frame we set ourselves, and 400 million. kr cheaper. The Progress Party has implemented important reforms, such as the establishment of New Roads, which build faster, cheaper and better. The party of progress in government has now ensured that the new, necessary and traffic-proof four-field motorway throughout Agder is built over a period of 10 years. It's over 500 years before the Workers' Party and the Center Party plan to do that. For all of us who are professionals in transport, and for those who see the need for safe and modern roads in Norway, there is really only one party to vote on: the Progress Party. It has been proved throughout all the years the Progress Party has been in government and through the budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1208	It's quite fun to sit and listen to the descriptions, especially for us who have been here for a while, and who know that the oil money usage of this government is over 110 billion. kr higher than what we had at our disposal when we were in government. If you had taken all this money and had just thrown it out of the window, it is clear that you have to do something positive with them, think of a lot of things to spend that money on – they would all do that. What we're now discussing is whether it's the most sensible use of the money we're doing now, or whether we could use it in a slightly different way. And that's what SV would have done. The progressing party would, when they were in opposition, put down the routes they are now boasting of, because SV, when they were in government, got up the investments on the railway for the first time. But there is a lot left in the railway sector that needs to be done with, among other things. in my county, heavy transport is going through so that we are almost not afraid to drive on the roads. And the electrical aircraft, the heavy transport that goes there, can hardly be solved. There is a route that is immature and that needs to be upgraded and that can be a backbone in the freight transport throughout the country – from Bodø to Kongswinger and out of the country with a terminal. It has to be in place. I lead the municipal committee, and there we put quite a lot of money into the SV's budget in the transport sector. Let's take 100 million. kr for public transport in the counties. Let's take 300 million. kr to the counties now in front and ordering zero-emission ferries and otherwise using zero-emission technology in public transport. The government will not agree to this, and then you risk missing both the big climate and getting started on the technology development of the industry that produces these boats. And then we add 184 million. kr for better breed and shear protection on the county roads. We also contribute money to the fishing ports, which the government has transferred to the county municipalities, but seriously underfinances. It's a huge problem for the states that they get unfunded responsibilities. In addition to that, we've also found room for 100 million. kr to more walking and cycling routes, and increased support for broadband expansion by 50 million. kr. So I think the states that will be responsible for this would have liked our budget better than the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1217	I don't think there's any doubt, at least not in this room, that the vast majority of people are more comfortable with the Sales Budget of the Progress Party than with their opposition. We have in government made way for a winner, and with the budget we adopt today, we increase the fight by over 80 pst. It had never happened without the Progress Party in government. Within the framework of the transport policy, we see great signs of progress party policy. Competition works. For example, from next year, Bergensbanen will contribute money into the state budget rather than as it has been until today, that one has received subsidies through the state budget. In addition, we have set up a new route, which challenges the state’s road system through competition, so that both of them stretch and are more creative – we get more money by introducing the element of competition. I am very happy that New Road points to E39 in my home country as a project they want to carry on. I understand that very well. It's a project that's very good socio-economic. It is profitable, and it will contribute to high values in the national economy. Desutan is Hordfast and Rogfast South-West its future intercity offer. Through the establishment of both Rogfast and Hordfast, one million people will have a closer connection and 500,000 jobs. Then we really talk about building new labour and housing markets. Reduced travel time between Stavanger and Bergen, from 4.5 hours today to 2 hours, will open up a whole new value and will be a solid contribution to an important export-right nutritional region. In addition, the advantage of building these projects is that we will get a free road after 15 years instead of having an expensive ferry ticket in all the bulls. For this reason, the E39 is important, and it is worrying what the opposition party thinks about this project – SV is against, the Greens are against, the Greens are against, the Labour Party locally talks about other lines. The Prom will build the E39. Even if I have a lot of talk about E39, it's not like Hordaland only has one road project that is desirable to build, and the government's priority is to build. The new path and road to Voss, for which the President is pleased, had the previous government zero more in its NTP. We have planning tools, we have the ambition to build both a new path and a new road to replace a very rough and dangerous road with a better road, plus that we will create shorter travel time between Bergen and Voss, which is very good. There is money in the state budget for further planning of the Ringerik Railway. It will be very important to tie Bergen and Oslo closer together and will shorten the journey time on the Bergensbanen further. The Ringweg East through Bergen is important. Sotra is out on offer. In addition, we have improved the means of ferrying so that many islands in the West will be able to replace a ferry with a bridge. The party of progress in government is building the country, and this is a hell of a budget for transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1230	This is a great day. A little later today, we will decide that «Yes, we love» is to be our national song, and yes, I love the smell of asphalt and roads, real roads at good speed, good speed limits, and four fields. On December 2nd, I was at the opening of the new E18 in my home municipality, Bamble, a wonderful four-field highway at 110 km speed limit, with which we worked for almost 25 years before it arrived. We didn't sing 'Yes, we love' there, but I sang 'Yes, we love' inside me, a wonderful experience. The progress party builds roads at a crazy pace – far, far above what the red-green managed in eight years. It's like putting them in the boots, with 80 pst. the increase in the transport budget made available to this Government and to the Progress Party. We're going to keep doing that, because infrastructure and roads are important to people all over the country. But it is worrying when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will build less four-field highways and more two- and three-field roads. Such signals mean full stop in the development of a new E18 through my old municipality of residence, Porsgrund. There is no ÅDT up to 20,000 cars a day. It's way below it. So we don't know what's coming, but the red-green signals are: full speed back to the future. One could almost think they'd seen the movie "Back to the Future," but they forgot to remember what you did in the past, and start doing things in the future. I must remind you of the example of Grenlandsbrua, which is an example of a failing policy and a policy of the past, in which two and three roads were just built because four-field roads were not to be built. It took ten years from the end of the road to see that this was a road that did not satisfy the requirements for the future. That is why we must now build a new expensive road. The same thing is the example in Agder, where you also built roads in parts of Agder with two and three fields. It is both stupid, bad, and at least not economically reasonable. Here we have to make sure to build more. Then I have to say when I hear the representative Myrli: he's against competition, against everything that happens, and everything that's new, and back to Telework is probably Myrli's wish – wait, wait, wait, queue, queue, queue for months to get the phone. Now you get a phone call right away because it's competition, and it works crazy well. I believe many here and many who are listening to think that Myrli must be renamed – monopolist-myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1245	I will not vote with ‘Yes, we love’. The transport budget is expected by many, not least by an ambitious national transport plan. Unfortunately, the government is unable to follow up its own plan after three years. The filling rate is, as we've heard several times, 45 pst. And the worst is for coastal purposes where only 33,6 pst has been delivered. so far. It's actually in an area that was down-prioritized in the first six years of the transport plan. This was to be compensated for by an advance-shooting scheme, but unfortunately it was short-lived – only in 2019, and it was not planned to continue for fairways and fishing ports in 2020. That means that there are many of them that now have to be put on hold. It is also regrettable that when fishing ports are now transferred to county municipalities from 2020, the government does not follow up with sufficient appropriations. I want to say that this actually confirms what we said about getting rid of the problems, not primarily because they thought the states were the best ones to take over this area. I also ask the government parties and the Council of State to look again at the possibility of completing the E6 Helgeland South. There's been a good E6 there, but it's unfortunate that you haven't been given the credit to finish Helgeland South. To postpone this would cost hundreds of millions of dollars, as the local representative says. We saw that on the E6 north, where the Storting cut through and finished the whole stretch right away. As a result, the government saved several hundred million dollars against waiting for six to ten years. Yes, there is a lot of good in the transport budget, and there is a lot you agree on. I am not least pleased that a joint committee is now supporting the fastest possible start of construction of a new airport in Mo in Rana. I expect the Council of State to follow up on this, so that we can get a start on building in 2020. So to broadband: Dear state councillor Astrup remembers too badly, and he misinforms the Stortinget. It's not like the Workers' Party hasn't lifted broadband, we've been doing that every year. In the last budget, when the others took over, it was 150 million. kr for broadband. They cut it down to 50 million. kr, and I remember the debates – including with the Council of State, Astrup – where they kept these appropriations down because the market was going to fix this. But the right is right, there are other parties than the Right and the Advance Party that have raised broadband in the government, and I record that the Christian People's Party has succeeded this year as well. That's good, even if you're only 50 pst. of what the Workers' Party included in the transport plan and in the budget of the year. Broadband is basic infrastructure, on the same line as inlaid water and electricity and the way a landline telephone was before. If we are to give equal housing and businesses throughout the country, this pot needs to be increased. As it is today, municipalities must use their own resources, which they should have spent on schools, kindergartens and care for their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1262	I'm proud of what the Progress Party in government delivers. The budgets and results show the bet of the times on transport and not least on road construction. In the project by project we see how New Roads constantly deliver faster and cheaper four-field motorways than what was the starting point. The Progress Party has always believed that competition and freedom of choice improve the results, as our solutions once again show. The road has never been built and several projects are being undertaken, thanks to the government of the responsible Minister of Transport of the Progress Party. To be an airlock, as the Centre Party called New Roads when it was established, there is an impressive list of road sections worked on: E6 Trendelag is running and ends up with a total distance of 106 km. E18 south-east is running and ends up with a total distance of 130 km. On the E39 south-west, the current section of approximately 208 km shall be replaced by a new four-field motorway. In my coming state, Inland, there is also very great activity: E6 is built with 86 km of quadruple highway from Colomen to Øyer. The interior has also been given several roads for which New Roads are responsible: E6 between Øyer and Otta and E16 between Klöfta and Kongsvinger. When we see that expansion is faster and cheaper while improving quality, I am optimistic on behalf of the projects. Developments will strengthen road safety, reduce travel time and stimulate growth and development. It provides greater socio-economic profitability, for the benefit of people and businesses. Local and regional politicians in the Workers' Party and the Centre Party are not in agreement. Storing politicians from these parties are clearly opposed to the solutions of New Roads, while municipal politicians from the same parties want to realise ongoing projects via New Roads. There's impatience in District Norway to realize the roads. In my home municipality, Kongsvinger, the Workers' Party and the Center's alternate budgets confirmed that no four-field motorway between Klöfta and Kongsvinger would have been realised. On the other hand, they have increased the requirements of the ÅDT from 12000 to 20000 vehicles in order to achieve at all a four-field motorway. When we know that road safety is increasing and travel time is reduced by our solutions to the development of a quadruple road, the Workers' Party chooses to retreat and offer only two- and three-field roads. Obviously not all parties want to meet the solutions and needs of the future for the benefit of District Norway. I am happy The Progress Party established the New Roads option, and I am glad that more and more finished sections can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1281	When I visit businesses around the country, there are three framework conditions with which we politicians can do something, which are mentioned in order to increase profitability and growth. One is taxes and taxes. It is obvious that if the tax regime in Norway is competitive compared to our neighbouring country and is not far above, it will be easier to place the investment in Norway instead of in Sweden or Denmark. The second is competence. The good access of enterprises to both skilled workers and candidates with relevant and good higher education is also an important prerequisite in a digitalised, automated and robotised working life. The third thing that is almost always mentioned is that good infrastructure is available, goods and services are safest and fastest possible from a to b, increase profitability and lead to more investment. The fact that employees can easily get to and from work, whether they drive a car, take a tram, a bus, a train or a bicycle, makes the company more attractive to employees. When we set a record for maritime food exports this year, it would not have been possible without an infrastructure at the bottom. When the painter, mason or lift installer receives a job, he or she is totally dependent on getting there quickly and getting the job done. When I take the plane from Værnes to Gardermoen every Monday or Tuesday, I have most likely been in line for a very long time first. Meg isn't sorry, but for the trailer in front of me full of salmon, or for the craftsman behind me, every minute means lost income, lost profitability and more precarious jobs. But there's light in the tunnel. New roads, which a united opposition was opposed to establishing just a few years ago, have been given the task of building a new road. Where a two- and three-field road was previously planned at the same speed limit as today, they have improved these plans to now apply a four-field motorway of 110 km/h at the speed limit. And they've been able to do it cheaper than the original plans. Think that someone has been against this, and think that someone is still against it! When the Central Party in its alternative budget draws money out of New Roads, it really gives cause for concern about future transport policy if they once again gain power and influence. In the next few years, it's going to smell a lot of bit of asphalt in the most important year through tround layers, namely E6. The job's far from it, but it's going well. People and businesses throughout the country deserve even better infrastructure – we will continue to do so every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1300	In the last year almost 50,000 more people have come to work, four out of five in private business. We can thank our businesses for that. They do a fantastic job in many different industries all over the country. Our job as politicians and elected representatives is to facilitate the development and growth of businesses. When I visit businesses around the country, more and more people tell me that they're doing well, that they're looking at more people, and that the future looks good. Nevertheless, there are three things that go back when I ask them about their challenges. Norwegian companies want better access to skills, lower costs through lower taxes and better infrastructure and, in particular, better roads – safer roads that get goods and services faster and employees safely home from work. With the 2020 draft budget, we have increased the transport budget by over 80 pst. since we joined the government. And in the period 2018-2021 it will be built approx. Four times as much quadruple road as it was in 2010–2013. This is the safest way we have, and it also saves business for valuable time. At the same time, we work to keep costs to people and businesses as low as possible. The Toll Agreement and the Granavolden Government Platform provide some 18.5 billion. kr to reduce tolls over the next 10 years. This government is making a huge effort on the way, while reducing car-related charges. Now we're taking in almost 20 billion. NOK less in car-related taxes to the state than when we joined the government. The cars now pay less in car-related taxes than the total is spent on municipal, county and state roads. It's an important milestone. Lower car charges also mean that more people can afford to buy a more safe, fuel-efficient and modern family car. The cost per km travelled has fallen by 10 pst., the charge for ownership and use per vehicle is on average close to NOK 3000 lower. So far, low- and zero-emission cars make up almost seven out of ten new cars. Norway has become a precursor country for the rest of the world. When we came into government, emissions from new passenger cars in Norway were at EU level, today we are more than 40pst. in the EU. Emission statistics also show that developments are moving in the right direction. Since we came into government, the emissions from the transport sector have been reduced. At the same time, total emissions are now the lowest since 1995 and the lowest per capita since before 1990. Roads are the main prerequisite for creating values throughout the country. Most of the goods and services are still on the way, whether fish or timber – goods for consumers, Christmas gifts for Christmas. We build more roads, we charge less charges. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1325	It is often delicious to see that the policy that has been believed in for very many years works when it is put into practice. The promotion party's transport policy has been under discussion for many years. Once we finally get it out in life, we see that it works. What's weird is to see the resistance it encounters from the opposition parties when it actually works. I have followed the debate and noted in the representative Myrlis the resistance to new solutions, to competition and to more and better train services. When we see so clearly that competition has saved us too much money and provides better offers to users, more departures and lower prices, there should be something all supported below. When I heard the representative Myrli, I was reminded when the Workers' Party fought against competition on the telemonopoly and against several actors on the television monopoly. It looks ridiculous today, and this is going to look ridiculous in the future. I also noticed in the representative Nävra's resistance to New Roads because he is unsure whether we have saved 12 billion kroner. kr. He thinks we might just have saved about 10 billion. kr. But I'm absolutely convinced that if it had only been 1 billion. kr we had saved on more efficient planning and construction of roads, there were one billion good reasons to continue. I don't understand that you have to stick to old solutions that have been disproved, when you see that you get better roads, faster planning and lower costs by organizing it in new and more modern ways. The fact that old monopolies and inefficient solutions were fought, I don't think you're going to remember with pride in a few years' time, when we've been rolling out the Party's transport policy on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1332	The centre party will be more committed to getting more goods across the sea and the track. It is good for road safety and for the environment. The center part will bet 200 million in addition. kr more on climate-friendly ferries and boats to better rust the coastal areas to cope with the green shift. I would also like to talk about the rapidity of the districts, namely the short-haul network. Flying on the short-haul network is not stressful, as Gunne's representative suggested. Small aerodromes are flexible and efficient, but ticket prices are too high on the runway network. The airline tax and the VAT increase introduced by this government contribute to increasing the costs for people and businesses in the districts. The Committee wishes to see a system of compensation for charges to reduce costs on the short-range network. But the Center Party has a much smaller bureaucratic system. We will cut the air passenger fee for aeroplanes of less than 20 tonnes, so that the routes can be maintained and strengthened. The center part will also use more on the FOT routes. In addition, I have to mention the VAT, which the government has increased from 8 pst. to 10 pst. to 12 pst. – and then maybe up to 25 pst. It means a lot to already expensive flights. The centre batch will ensure cheaper air tickets and make it easier to switch to electric aircraft on the runway network. According to the debate at the NRK, the Director of the Post received a 19 p.m. salary increase. It may have been a thank you for implementing the collapse of the postal service in the districts. The government is going to halve our mail delivery to our mailboxes from 1 July next year. The centre party believes it is wrong to destroy a distribution network that works throughout the country every day of the week. The post office is more than letters and bills. It is important for the delivery of newspapers, packages, medicine and biological material, and it is for people and industries in the districts that it really will notice that the service provision will be further reduced. The districts already notice that the A-post is gone. It is much more expensive to get small packages delivered outside the cities, and over-night packages do not reach overnight in the districts. The centre party will keep mail delivery five days a week, and we've added money to it into the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1348	It is the time of traffic – on the road, at sea, in the air, and not least on digital motorways. It's a bet that's necessary if we're to cope with the transformation and the value creation we need in the years to come. I'd like to say a little bit about the ratios that go on zero-emission ferries and zero-emission speedboats, which are also soon on the way. The size has run counter to strong reductions in greenhouse gases, and the municipalities, the counties and not least the inhabitants are the ones who will help to achieve these goals. They're taking it seriously. Moors and Romsdal, Hordaland and some other states have already invested heavily in this. More and Romesdal have, for their part, already reached the Paris agreement – not everyone can say it. But this has a cost, and it should not be hidden. There are some major economic challenges in implementing these projects. The project provides a high cost of piling that is hard to bear, and perhaps heavier than one when starting up. In the future, it is therefore important to see if a person is able to make better arrangements that will allow other states to take this initiative one step further. I think the good will is present both in Stortinget and not least in the position to do this. A small power take-off must be done anyway. But there's not enough zero-emission and greenhouse gas reduction. We need digital highways, and we're on the right track. There is a big effort on digital motorways, and the solution will help to make the inhabitants more digital. That's what it takes. The municipalities, the state and the state provide more and more services that expect the inhabitants to be digital too. Then we also need the infrastructure for this. We're on the right track. The solutions are there, it's just about putting it into practice, all the way around. Finally, I want to take the Free E39. We've seen planning agents for the ferry-free E39. The free E39 is the railway to the West and the coast. I know that there are very many people who are happy in the railway in this hall, and they should also be in the ferry-free E39, because that's the railway to the coast, and that's what will work there. It's in the ocean space of the future, and here we're going to create the values. It says everyone, both business, politicians and others. Then we have to establish important connections like Hafast, Møreaksen and Hordfast. Therefore, I am very pleased that the planning resources are also fixed in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1361	With the Progress Party in government, the Transport Budget has increased by over 80 pst. since we took over the Ministry of Transport in 2013. There has been a fantastic bet on transportation. As a FrP and driver, I have great love for the smell of asphalt, and it has smelled asphalt from Agder in the south to Finnmark in the north after the Progress Party got the Minister of Transport in 2013. With the Progress Party in government, we have strengthened the national road investment in North Norway from an annual average of 1.4 billion. SEK in the period 2010–2013 to SEK 3,2 billion. kr from 2014 to 2019. The government shall use 40 billion. SEK for investment projects in North Norway in NTP during the period 2018-2029. Before we got into government, the maintenance seat run on the highways increased every year. With the Advance Party in government, we resume the maintenance run for the first time in several decades. It creates safer roads and greater predictability for business and avoids potential accidents. And more new asphalt will be in the years to come, because we're not in the goal yet. It is not always enough simply to increase the appropriations in order to advance the movement rate. With the Advance Party in government, we realized one of our heart children – the road company New Roads, which build roads faster, better and cheaper than we have seen in the past. This year, the Minister of Transport even got a happy message that New Roads will take over the E6 Kvänang Mountain, a project that will bind Finnmark and Troms better together. Originally, the project was divided into two parcels, and the first parcel was inside the first part of the NTP, while the second parcel was to be started only after 2023. But when New Roads are going to take over this project, they're thinking completely new. They will build both parcels at the same time and signal that the entire section can be completed by 2023 – in fact, before the state road system started on the other parcel of the project. In addition, it is estimated that costs will be reduced by 30 pst. when New roads have taken over the route. That the success of New Roads now also comes to North Norway, promises well, and we hope for several projects in the north of the road company when they will get a larger portfolio in connection with the rolling of the National Transport Plan. From my point of view, I would like New Roads to take over the projects at the E45 Alta-Finnish border, and then the specific race protection project Klöfta. Not only do we enjoy getting New Roads in Finnmark, but Finnmark is actually a toll-free state – thanks also to the Advance Party in government. One of the first things we did when we came into government was to remove a toll station that was to be put into operation in Alta. It has made it possible for the people who would be hit to retain more of their own money today than to pay tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1376	In recent years we have seen huge consumption of palm oil in car traffic in Norway. This has destroyed the rainforest, and it has given increased emissions of greenhouse gases globally. The Norwegian government has adorned itself with a reduction in emissions in the Norwegian greenhouse gas accounts, but the truth behind many of these figures is increasing emissions globally. The government’s original proposal for the 2020 government budget was to introduce a user charge on all biofuels, both within what is sold and outside the turnover requirement. This would have been an important step on the way to prevent us from running around with an orangutan on the tank. However, the problem was that it would also put an end to the increased sale of environmentally friendly biofuels. Collective societies, businesses and others who would use more environmentally friendly biofuels than they are imposed would be punished on their wallets. Therefore, SV proposed to impose a user charge, but compensate those who can guarantee that they are running palm oil free. It was a good proposal, which would have both ensured the rainforest, orangutan and increased use of environmentally friendly biofuels in Norway. We would also require that palm oil-based biofuels cannot be counted within the scope of the marketing requirement. Unfortunately, all the parties to the government voted against this proposal. The situation today is that the government has chosen to postpone the introduction of the user charge for biofuels to the next summer and they also warn that the sales requirement should be increased beyond the planned 20 pst. Without new measures to protect us against the use of palm oil, the government is risking collapsing into a new palm oil bath. There is a strong warning from, among others: organisations such as the Rain Forest Fund, and it is quite incomprehensible that the government with this open-eyed government is entering a potential new palm oil scandal. It is incomprehensible that they again risk letting Norwegian drivers drive around with an orangutan on the tank.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1385	The president has listened to tigers on the thought, but orangutan was a little new.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1390	I can confirm the content of the halt break by the representative. I have filmed these animals, so I know well about this problem. Then to the representative Hoksrud. He is the very symbol of the Progress Party, the pure, solid and rank Progress Party, this speedy, exciting representative who loves the smell of asphalt, it is mentioned many times here today by several representatives of the Progress Party. He also mentioned that he lacks some motorways in the Porsground area, in Grenland, but does not this representative also miss Grenlandsbanen? I wonder. This path that would connect the Southern Railway to the Westfold Railway? It had to be a real genius line, as we say. I never hear anything about it from that edge. An up-to-date, biased committee and an informed and environmentally conscious pooling should constantly raise the question of priorities, and whether these incredibly lucrative and environmentally hostile projects can be re-evaluated in the light of new knowledge. I will again mention the Free E39. There's one of these projects that's been sitting here in the hall, in a way. Many seem to have painted themselves up in a kind of corner, and there has been great prestige in staying there, despite the fact that there are strong points that speak against – and some are brand new. What we know is that it costs at least 190 billion. kr only for the fjord crossings. We have to take this over. It might cost a little over 200 million. kr each year in maintenance of these long tunnels, such as Møreaksen Rogfast. So it's costed, as I mentioned earlier today, 1.8 billion. kr only in the planning so far of these incredible, adventurous performance projects for the fjord crossings, without a new ferry technology having been involved in these planning processes. Just after the SV’s proposal on modern zero-emission frequent take-offs was voted down here in Stortinget, TØI was commissioned by the State Road Administration to investigate just this – six sections, and for three of them it will be profitable separately, without seeing it in relation to tunnel solutions and bridges. And then it's starting to get interesting. All responsible representatives here in the Chamber should take this on board. I have to say: Ryfast, Rogfast, Hordfast – how long will the majority be faithful to these projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1399	First I notice that the representative Nävra confirms the content of the halt break. I don't know what the representative Haltbrecken had in mind – we hope it wasn't an orangutan. I also noticed the post to the State Council Dale here instead – he stood and boasted that the government is cutting the charges for air transport domestically. Then I had to browse the budget documents one more time to check if something had happened that I had not received. No government has ever provided for higher taxes in Norway than has been paid to Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance – €6.3 billion. NOK in increased fees. An important part of the increased charges is the recent increase in charges for domestic air transport services on the short-haul network. It is true that one has sent out a consultation proposal to change some air fares for the short-haul network, and I expect the Council of State has also seen the hearings and calculations that have come back. As Onkøe writes, this could reverse some of the very problematic tax increases that today’s government has contributed in a few years. It's nice if you can reduce the charges somewhat on domestic air transport, but where I come from, we call that a mousetip in the sea. On their commercial routes, Ontøe has only received increased taxes of plus 212 million. kr in three years. With the consultation sent by the Council of State, the increase in fees will be reduced to 197 million. kr. in the case of an Onions says right in their response to the hearing that the fee increase that has come from today's government has led to the need to cut the route offer. And they say one more thing, that you really must have cut more on the route than what you've done, but because Onøe takes social responsibility, and hopes that it's going to improve in the future, they've helped to maintain unprofitable routes. It's on the contrary here that takes social responsibility – a social responsibility that the government doesn't take. To develop and take care of Norway, it is precisely necessary to make it easier for people to travel around Norway – using the short-haul network. But with this government, the very opposite has happened. There have been solid tax cuts for those who have the most history, while ordinary people have received solid tax increases in addition to record tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1408	It was the representative of Myrli who inspired me to take the floor when he started saying that the Workers' Party as usual has a more offensive budget than the government parties have, and when he said it was sad, what is happening now, when he talked about the railway. One thing is what you do in opposition, the other what you deliver in position. Last night I cost myself to look at a bit of the hearing from 2012 to the last budget presented by the Workers' Party. Then the LO, the friends of Myrli, were very clear that there were major challenges in the sector. Specially concerned were they for the maintenance seat suspension. They could report that 35-40 employees were at risk of losing their jobs, the machines were not used, and if the draft budget remained, they would be at risk of having to sell the machinery abroad for the following year, so that they could not maintain it the following year. That was the reality when Myrli was in position. With us in position, I remember there was a budget – I think it was in 2015 – where we discussed whether we should increase the appropriations for railway maintenance even more, but was told that it was not possible. All the machines were in use, all the employees were on duty, and the frames were used. When the representative Myrli fears that with the Progress Party it will continue in position only the lucia train that is at peace, one might say that had the monopolist Myrli managed, it would only be the lucia train the employees of the railway could have gone in. A little history: In 2006, the budget for transport was 12 billion. kr. After a few years with the Workers' Party, it had increased correctly to 21 billion. At the same time, the cost of road construction increased sharply and the number of kilometres of new road fell from 10.7 km in 2006 to 10.6 km in 2014. We decided that we had to think differently. It's only a monopolist who thinks this is going well – we're just solving this with more money. We have to see how we can organize things differently. That's why we started New Roads, and now 84 km of highway is being built next year. The representative Myrli said they would build the same roads as New Roads. Well, that's a truth with modifications. On April 25, 2015, the Workers' Party was out in the Class struggle and feared a roadbonanza. In January 2015, both the president and the representative Myrli were visiting Ålgård and said that they would give priority to the Ålgårdbahn in front of the E39. Since that time, they still haven't prioritised funds for the Ålgårdbahn in their alternative budgets, so that E39 we can look a long way behind. At least we can't expect four fields, because the representative Gahr Støre said from this pulpit in 2019 that we don't have to build four fields on all the roads New roads will build.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1421	The president didn't say that at Ålgård.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1426	Babcock, toll record, rail privatisation with increased million-dollar salaries for directors and more expensive long-distance tickets for ordinary people, taxi industry in skirmishes and increased bus charges for ordinary people – it has become a history of many transport policy crashes with the Progress Party in government. That's history, and in a few years we're going to hopefully get the policy into a more sensible course for the benefit of ordinary people throughout the country. When we talk about the future, it's quite obvious that there's one thing common people and businesses across our country will need in the coming years, there's access to the Internet and to mobile phones. What's interesting is how underfunded this field is compared to other government budget priorities. In the Labour Party, we try to take the course in Stortinget in the right direction, so that all business life in Norway can at least inform about what they are doing and accept orders on the Internet. I myself visited a company in Folldal, my neighbouring municipality, where tourist experiences were sold on the horse back. Many try to contact this Iceland horse centre, but wonder if the company is closed because it is neither telephone coverage nor Internet coverage. The interesting situation is that it was actually easier to communicate with that company decades ago, because then you had at least a landline. When Kvistli tried to contact Telenor to see if it was possible to get a fixed phone again because they do not have a mobile phone, the consultant said she would see what was in stock. What she then came up with was a physical phone with pipes and wire, but that was not what the company wanted. In fact, they wanted access to call and accept orders. It says something about today's Norway. We have big things to do in the next few years. As it looks now, it seems like the desire to spend money on new ministerial posts, for example. a Minister for Digitalisation is greater than the desire to invest in the basic digital infrastructure. We'd like to have a Minister of Digitalisation, but we should get what we can call everyday paths for mobile phones and the Internet. Eventually, there might be digital highways too. It might tempt the Progress Party to open up its eyes to the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1437	The representative, Siv Mossleth, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1442	Only 3.8 pst. of today’s NTP is coastal related. In three out of six years, only one third of this narrow, narrow tab is filled. That's bad. It's terrible for the coastal regions. The representative Olsen says that Nordland has been granted increased funding from the state. It describes a very alternative reality. The fact is, the cut to Nordland is nearly 500 million. kr on the guard of the Party of Advancement. Some of this is due to fewer young people, but most of it is due to a distribution from north to central districts. The description of the fishing ports by the representative of Olsen is also an entirely alternative. Neither Andenes, Røst, nor Værøy were ports that could participate in gunning schemes. Expenditure only to Nordland is at least 130 million. kr in the time coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1450	Yes – to the representative Nils Aage Igstad – we are positive to an NTP of 933 billion. kr, government money. And then it's going to be one hundred thirty-two billion. kr in tolls, and this room has a somewhat more ambivalent relationship with – after the debates I have been in at least. What is important is that this is money that Stortinget has decided to use to build infrastructure in this country – across the country. The representative Hoksrud and more with him are talking about asphalt. I just want to remind you that in next year's budget there will be a reduction of 30 pst. for asphaltification – from 900 million. kr down to 600 million. kr. What people are concerned about, which has also been described here under another government, is that you don't have to use the engine park or maybe sell machines. It's in next year's budget. The centre part will smooth the differences. We have European roads in this country that actually have yellow stripe, but are barely so wide that two trailers can meet. And if someone's so unhappy to stand on the edge of the ditch, they're blown over the car protection -- if there's any auto protection. It's actually also part of reality, and this is also something to be prioritised within these 1000 billions. kr to be used – 1000 billion. kr! Of course, we in the Centre Party are concerned that there should be good road links and good collective links to support 2 million people in the Oslo area. It says itself. But there must also be a relationship between the bet in the rest of the country and the bet in the central strata. That's what you're trying to point out, and we've been pointing that out for quite a while. Looking at broadband, which is a very basic infrastructure, it is very important that it is in place throughout the country. The whole public sector and the private sector depend on its practical functioning. It must work if we are to achieve the reforms that the state is now about to embark on. It's estimated between 8 and 9 billion. kr to get it in place throughout the country. There are billions that are not in place today, and I'm referring to the Central Party's alternative state budget, which proposes to allocate $243 million. kr more than the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1461	In Northern Norway, the fishing industry in particular has been growing well in recent years. Marine production has moved northwards to lower sea temperatures and less lice. The export of fresh fish is too much of the traffic with car combinations in North Norway, but fortunately some of these car combinations can take the shortest route to a railway terminal and avoid driving the cargo across the border and all the way through Sweden to the market. Seafood industry uses both Ofotbanen and Nordlandsbanen for its exports. The transport of fresh fish by train from Narvik by Ofotbanen has increased from the late 1990s to 200000 tonnes. It's 200 million kilograms, and if the kilo price is $60, then there's fish for the values of $12 billion. kr. Based on the knowledge of what transport by Ofotbanen creates of values, in particular for the seafood industry in Northern and Troms, the Red-Green Government has invested in capacity-enhancing measures in the NTP adopted at Stortinget in June 2013. That's $2.7 billion. SEK for new investment projects, of which SEK 1.6 billion. To Ofotbanen in Corridor 8. How much money is there from today's government in the NTP adopted in the Stortinget in June 2017 to new railway measures in Corridor 8 – that is to say, all north of Tøndelag? In the Corridor 8, orbit and new projects table, there's zero dollars. This applies to the entire investment period – from 2017 onwards to 2029. North Norway does not receive one krona for new investment projects. But some projects have hung again since 2013 – an inheritance. At Ofotbanen, the last crossing track, the one at Narvik station, had not been built. It's starting to rush because the track is in the first part of the government's NTP. It was unexpectedly not funded last year, and 2020 seems to be another year lost for a socio-economic, climate-friendly and important project for North Norway. The government can not only solitude in the shine of the passing of 100 billion dollars in the seafood industry. kr in the export value last week. They must take responsibility for facilitating these exports. The working party is worth 30 million. kr in its budget to start the project in 2020. I must mention another pettyness. In the organization of fresh fishing, the government cannot afford the few million needed to allow trailers to cross the most used cross-border crossing in the north at any time of day. Fresh fish from the Lofoten, the Western and South Troms lose value and have to deal with special opening times. Fortunately, the operation of the customs stations in Skibotn and Kautokeino is financed by Finland, so that you can drive all day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1474	When the Progress Party sat in opposition and created alternative budgets, we created budgets that were aimed at developing the country's transport system. We signaled large investments that were necessary. When we joined the government, we carried it out. So now we have an increase of 80 pst. in the field of transport. Knowledge is sought. If you look at the opposition's alternative budget proposal, you overrule many of the government's measures to get good infrastructure in the country. Then the conclusion should be that the time in the opposition has given a knowledge, just knowing that things weren't like that. It should also be a fascination that what you did when you were in government was too bad. This applies to both highway, highway and last but not least racial protection. The representative Kirsti Leirtrø from the Workers' Party said that the Workers' Party has given more to the county roads every year during this government. It is a term for how bad the situation has really been in this country, when you see in opposition that it is necessary to grant more. Fishing ports have been lifted several times. If you use available information and keep out the investments that should not be made until after 2024, it is true that Nordland is actually better off with the framework transfers they have received than what has been allocated over the last seven years to this sector. Tolls have also been lifted. It is a reality that if the proposal of the Centre Party had been voted through in this room, the toll burden for the drivers would have increased. It is a reality. With a little extra time in the opposition – whose higher powers hopefully stand by us – one will realize that this is how the world hangs together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1487	It happened in these days for a few years ago: I'm going to be completely honest and admit that I don't remember the President's presence, but I witnessed that Labour Party politicians had tears in their eyes and clapped to a Advance Party Council. Ketil Solvik-Olsen called him, and the new road and railway between Bergen and Voss was to be decided. He went for alternative K5. The day after we woke up with a first page where the savior from the Advance Party was born. It was simply an adventure. With the Progress Party in the driver’s seat, Norwegian transport policy is on track. It warms a Advance Party heart to find that road is a winner. With the budget we are adopting today, we have increased the road rate by over 80 p.m., and as we have heard in the debate today, this would never have happened without the Progress Party in government. We want cities that exist for everyone, but we also have to remember that it's actually not everyone who lives in a city or in central districts. People live all over Norway, and that's good. We want a car and transport policy tailored to the people and their needs. In a long and scattered country, as Norway is, there are actually a lot of people who depend on the car. That's why we also have to have good roads. We believe that all kinds of people should have the opportunity to travel and live where they want to, and in the West we are heavily dependent on the transportation of cars. Electric and fashionable bicycles have a limited value for a fruit farmer in Hardanger or a carpenter in Bergen. Most people have to have roads, and we have to have good safe roads. The driving party is the motorists' party, and the car is not a luxury, but a necessary part of people's everyday lives. Good roads are important for our well-being, and we must also remember that much of the value creation that is taking place in Hordaland and elsewhere in the West is crucial for our well-being. That value creation depends on good infrastructure both in the air, on water and on land. There has been a lot of talk today about New Ways, the Heart Child of the Advancement Party, which is simply an adventure of success. I really look forward to Monday, then I'll hear more about their thoughts for Norway's most socio-economic project, namely Hordfast. With the Advance Party behind the steering wheel, we are moving ever closer to a realization.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1502	40 years ago, I was employed as a power plant engineer in Statkraft. I worked with production planning for power plants and had to do with foreign connections – sold power to Sweden and Denmark at the time. You can hear that this is a little bit "ingenious" and depending on the data. We got telex, and once a day, data came in. Then came the fax. Then there was a dial-up connection, with better and better data transmission, satellite and fiber. Today, there is real time in that industry and in many other industries. I understand that you do a much better job today than what I did at the time I started, because you have access to very up-to-date data, maybe even in real time. The real-time perspective also applies to cars and transport. I almost hope that I have purchased my last car. I like to drive a car, but I like to travel best. I like to sit on, perhaps in an autonomous car or bus, in such a way that they can come home to me and pick me up, because they know where they're going, and not least that they're available at any time. I think that'll be the future. Then we're dependent on, as the government council said in a previous post, that we're now starting to expand 5G. There must be a real-time 5G solution for this to be sufficient for us to release them into normal traffic. I really hope that it can be done. As far as the goal, as the Council of State also mentioned today, is that we should reach 90 pst. with 100 Mbit/s at transfer rate in the case of fiber and mobile phone already next year, my question is to the Council of State, and now you must not go, Council of State, for now you must hear: Shouldn't we already set new goals – 95 pst. In 2023, maybe 100 pst. a few years later? We thought there were hairy targets in 2016, but we reach them. Now we have to set new goals, because the whole country deserves good computing power in order to manage its portfolio and not least in order to become even more competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1511	The representative of Gunnes must not say "you" to the Council of State. He must ask the President to ask the Council of State to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1516	Tuesday this week the NRK reported that there were 19 closed roads in Finnmark. Last week, the Muppet was closed for five days. It's the main entrance to Finnmark. The roundabout is approx. 30 miles. I'm not going to take up the plane ambulance crisis again, but everyone sees that we have a special need for air ambulances when there are many closed roads. It has been said from this pulpit by several representatives of the Progress Party – I came out of the census – that it smells asphalt throughout the country. They depend on everyone to see that roads are being built everywhere. I would like to say to them: take a trip northward, preferably to Finnmark. I can't say that I know myself again. In fact, we are running a tunnel to Nordkapp, and a tunnel is planned in Nord-Troms through Kvänang Mountain. It's important and proper bet. But given that the state is swindling with so much money on transportation, it is incredible that roads and ports in Finnmark do not get any more space. It's incredibly far from Tromsø to Vadsø, which is our county capitals. In West Finland, it is now imperative to repair Rv. 94 to Hammerfest to get raw materials out. That way, as I understand it, is taken out of the budget. The E45 from Klöfta to Finland is important – here it is also promised to get started – and the road is particularly important in order to get modular trains out to the coast to take the goods transport there. The road package in Hammerfest and Alta is crucial for urban development, but everything has stopped here. The representative Strifeldt said we don't have tolls in Finnmark. That is true, because we are not in the process of having important road packages in the two major cities of West Finland either. We're barely inside the NTP with some planning tools. I hope this room can help realize this in future budgets to ensure housing and nutrition, especially when the majority in the hall is willing to spend so much money on transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1527	The E18 West Corridor is essentially a transformation of Bærum. Bærum is a municipality with approx. 130 000 inhabitants. The E18 project is comparable to what has happened in Oslo in the last 15 years. The roads are laid in tunnels and the derelict areas provide a basis for exciting urban development. It is worth noting that it is the major road projects in the Oslo packages that have formed the basis for urban renewal in Oslo and in central parts of Akershus, and that have made it possible to improve the collective offer and not least to give legitimacy to the toll collection. The state road system describes the situation as follows: «E18 westwards from Oslo is one of the country's most stressed roads, with lots of queues and problems for both bus and car. Local roads are also missing to meet local travel needs. Existing E18 has a function as both the main road and the local road, where there is a relatively short distance between the intersections. This gives a complicated driving pattern where local bottlenecks often arise and very uneven winding and speed. This results in accidents and accidents. When E18 queues appear, many choose to drive through the residential areas. This causes very many to be plagued by traffic pollution and noise. The queues cause delays in public transport and a loss of time for road transport, which is of great economic importance to society. The situation is exacerbated by significant growth in the number of jobs and dwellings in the area around and along the E18 and Oslo areas. This poses major challenges for the development of a transport system with greater capacity. The E18 corridor constitutes both a visual barrier and a functional barrier in the areas it touches, and it places heavy loads on the environment in the form of noise and air pollution.» We should listen to this, because here the expert speaks – as Arne Nävra recommended us. What are we going to do with experts if we don't listen to them? There are other projects accompanying the E18 project. New bus train provides important priority for bus along the E18 West Corridor. The new E18 will have a total length of 15.5 km between Asker and Lysaker. In parallel with the construction of a new bus train, a new walk and cycle path shall also be built. This, in combination with attractive holding places, will be able to serve far more public passengers than if there is insufficient infrastructure for walking. This is also a project where there has been money collection since 2008, so you should not say against it being heard. There are other examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1553	This government prioritises transport and infrastructure construction. Since 2013, there has been an increase in rail investment by 88 p.m., and for 2020, the total increase in rail investment is 1.1 billion. kr. from 2019. Railway reform includes, inter alia: Postponement of the competitive operation of train sections. On Monday, December 9, it was clear that it was Vy who won the offer on the Transport Package West. Previously, Go-Ahead has won the offer on Traffic Package South and SJ has won the offer on Traffic Package North. In total, the state has released 12 billion. kr over a 10-year period that we can use to invest in infrastructure construction and maintenance. That the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are ideologically opposed to this reform and postponement of competition is beyond doubt. They write that this is an ideology that ‘undermines the skills and dignity of railway workers’. It makes me wonder: what does it mean that a railway kit that now switches uniforms from Vy to Go-Ahead or SJ, suddenly misses its professionalism, and that their work effort is worth less? What is the confidence of large, serious operators such as SJ and Go-Ahead? One would almost think that the success of tripartite cooperation was no longer valid for the railway. It is striking that the opposition in its alternative budget brings in the benefits of competitive outsourcing. The working party says they're adding 5 million. kr in savings by stopping the railway reform. They do not calculate how much it will cost to subtract from signed agreements. It reminds me of a couple of other monopolies, Norwegian Rikskringcasting and Televerket – state enterprises that were protected from competition. Both these monopolies fell under the Willoch Government in 1985. Is there anyone who could think back to the time when we had one channel or were praised by Televerket? I think we were on the waiting list to get a fixed phone. The NRK and Telenor went from being monopolists to being market players. It's a journey that's gone very well. I think the same thing applies to the railway operators. We look forward to the historic event on Sunday, December 15, 2019, when Go-Ahead runs Stavanger-Oslo for the first time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1568	When I heard Sverre Myrlis' resistance to having the efficiency engine, namely competition, into as much as possible of what has to do with operating the railway, I remember a line change 25 years ago. It was unfortunately before Sverre Myrli entered the Stortinget. Then the government had cut collective transfers to the states, and I allowed myself to ask then Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth why the reason was that at the same time they had imposed a ban on competition in bus transport around the country. Kjell Opseth replied yes, that was because you got a competition, and that you could count on saving money. It has also been proven in the case of rail, which is very similar to bus traffic, except that the bus has the advantage that it is much easier to change the trajectory options than it is with the tracks that the railway has to follow. So I am very pleased that the government is now making too full use of tenders and competition in this area, and I wish they could do so in a number of other areas where unfortunately we still have monopoly. Then I heard Bengt Fasteraune talk about roads in the counties. Now that the Center Party has become quite dominant around the counties and county councils, I look forward to prioritizing more money to expanding the county roads. We must not underestimate the importance of the highways for District Norway. I see for myself: we have a place at Lesjaverk. It's 40 miles away. Now it's getting shorter – in time, and time is money. It also applies to business. If you cut down the time it takes to drive a trailer from More and Romesdal or from Nordland to the continent with fish, we become more competitive, and we save costs for the companies in Norway. The expansion through the Gudbrand valley also helps those who transport goods from North Norway and West Norway to the continent. Of course, it also strengthens the nutrient base in the districts, for example: in Dombås and Lesjaverk. There's a good part that has cabins. If there is shorter travel distance to take a ride on the cabin, you are more often there and demand local goods and services. When you cut this in time, you actually bring District Norway closer to the big cities, if we can call some of the cities in Norway big. It is an advantage for District Norway that we also get better highway networks, because then you get closer to the markets and, if necessary, to the jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1581	Nothing provides jobs in districts as good infrastructure. Good, safe and efficient roads are naved, the main premise itself to ensure that people can live and work all over the country – good, safe roads that get people and goods from north to south, to and from island communities, over mountains, through mountains, over fjords and under fjords. We have all received the same feedback when we visit the founder of the West, family farms in More and Romesdal, the fisherman in North Norway or one of the small and large innovative and forward-looking businesses that are leading their fields – that exactly the tunnel or the bridge or the new road, which replaces the fallaway road that was there before, was the reason why the company established itself or invested in exactly that place, in that particular municipality. No one wants to invest in companies where you don't get the goods on the market. Very few people live in a place without a road, and no businesses establish themselves in places without a workforce. I think it's a pleasure to hear the Central Party talk about district policy, those who spent eight years in government and ended up giving way ready-to-fall roads to the states. The effort to bring the whole country into operation, which the Central Party is talking about today, we started to do six years ago, when the Advance Party came into government. The central party should understand that the best thing to do is to implement policies when you are in government, not as the central party has done, to sit quietly in the boat when they are in government, and then to talk about everything that should have been done. We took no bet from the Center Party. What we've done is we've cleaned up after the Center Party. On North-Møre, rapporteurs from the Central Party and the Labour Party spent years in order to get their own colleagues in government to understand that the fall-out, road-hazardous rv. 70 had to be renewed. It had to be a government with the Advance Party to fulfill that desire. New rv. 70 was opened by the Council of State a few months ago. Or the annual ritual that the Central Party of Northern Ireland had to go out in the media to tell us that time is overdue to build a new E39 between the North Murder and the Trendelag, a Europe road so narrow that we don't even have room for yellow mid-strip: now the work is going on. Enterprises, school students and residents are now looking forward to a new, safer road – a better path, with a yellow middle stripe – thanks to a government with the Progress Party, which takes people seriously, who take seriously and who take the districts seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1591	During the exchange of lines, the representative Steinar Karlstrøm from the Workers' Party was concerned about developments in fishing ports. Personally, I'm not sure what he's worried about. During the period 2009–2013, 693 million were used. 2019 krones in North Norway at fishing ports, while below us it is expected to be used around 1 250 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. Earlier in the fall, senior advisor Eirik Selmer from Finnmark County Council at the Coastal and Port Conference of the Swedish Coastal Works in Honningsvåg informed about the development of the fishing ports, and especially in Finnmark. He was very satisfied with the Finnish mark-out, with commitments to gunners and, not least, with the increase in design resources. When it is claimed that this government has not prioritised fishing ports, it does not really have any roots. I would then encourage them to travel to the municipality of Berge and look at the entrance to the port of Senjahopen, to the municipality of Gieske and look at the port of Gjøsund, to the municipality of Gamvik and to the municipality of Gamvik. I also recommend taking a trip to the County of Finnmark and hearing how the increase in the design means means that they have many pottery-ready projects when the fishing ports are transferred to the new regions. If we are to use the whole country, the government’s commitment to broadband is important and crucial for increased digitisation and future growth and well-being – in order to create and secure jobs in District Norway. Municipal Minister Navarsete stated in 2013 that broadband deployment is important in order to avoid a digital class distinction between city and district. The party of progress in government has taken action to advance digital development. The amendment of the excavation regulation reduces costs by 25 p.m. and the change in the award criteria of the grant scheme has led to more broadband construction in districts. In the State budget for 2020, the government proposes to allocate 256 million. kr in broadband grants – a continuation of the high level of last year. In comparison, annual averages in the period 2010–2013 were close to 117 million. kr. In my home country, Finnmark, we definitely noticed the digital class division under the red-green. In 2013 it was 7 pst. which had useful broadband coverage in Finnmark, and no one had 4G coverage indoors. Now Finnmark has a 4G-coverage indoors on 96 pst, and 86 pst. of Finnmark households now have a broadband offer of 100 Mbit/s. Fortunately, we have removed the digital class distinction that was created under the red-green government. With everything we do, rate and invest, it gives residents and businesses in the north good assumptions. The Party of Advancement is responsible for this in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1606	Transportation is absolutely vital for our entire country. That is also what we have heard from the fact that all the regions and their parts of the country are lifting up. In such areas, it becomes incredibly important that we manage to prioritise, and there are many, at least from Bergen and Hordaland, where I come from, who say: – Is it that we are punished because we have a Prime Minister from Bergen? Because there are projects in line – and not so far from Am, because people expect you to have concrete plans for what is happening, and not for eight years from Am in time. E16, the main road between Bergen and Oslo, does not have yellow stripe when passing Voss. There's a race going on. Now it's closed again. A heavy stone lies in the middle of the border between Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. It happened last week. Last week there was also a break between Ulvik and Osa so that the village was closed. About the Sotra connection: I think the Council of State is tired of all my questions, but I can also say that it was the Right that promised in the 2013 election campaign to start construction in 2014 if you went to an OPS. From this point of view, it was not the main intention of the Advance Party to prioritize a OPS. But there have been many years since 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. The queue is there every day. I live in that area on the mountain side, and it stops the whole development of a difficult region standing there with the Subsea environment, with the Eyeland and with all the projects in the frAmtid in terms of carbon capture. We still don't know if the project will be realized. The West also has a lot of fishing. I have been to the north, and I am aware that the fish is important there, but it is also to the West. It also contributes to the creation of value for our country. In Austevoll a great fishing port was built. But the second-largest municipality, Bømlo, which has put its plans into practice, which has tried all manner of ways to get business operators and municipalities to co-finance, and has sent applications for applications, has not yet been allowed to realize it, so that the new, large boats that go to Greenland to fish do not have the opportunity to use ports in our neighbourhood. The county council cannot afford both to prioritise secondary schools and maintenance on the roads plus the fishing port and all the racial projects throughout our county. So I hope that Mrs.Amover will be able to give priority where it really is needed, and that is in the whole country, but all parts of the country have to get their share.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1621	The new county of Viken is going to stretch from Halden to Hemsedal and is going to be very complex and diverse. A good part of us are going to live in cities, and many are going to stay in the country. In order for the Vikings to be integrated and coherent, good transport policies are also required from this room where a majority participated in bringing Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold together into a very large group. The fold is going to be the sixth largest county in the area, but it's going to be clearly the largest population of 1.2 million people, almost twice Oslo. Then the climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. In order for us as the nation of Norway to achieve the climate goals, we need to take the growth of traffic with public transport, bicycles and times. In population-rich areas, this will be particularly important. It is especially vital that we succeed in that. Here's the Viking in a special position. The bay needs good, safe roads and traffic solutions that provide smooth and easy access. We need to make more use of fjords for climate-friendly, refrigerated public transport and freight transport. Ports must be better developed here as well, and emissions must not least be reduced. With a well-developed collective system, it would be better for people in general to choose public transport rather than to take the car. It really isn't like that today. For example, the Eastfold Railway has: the least satisfied passengers in the country, and that is for good reason. The Labour Party will use the transport policy to bring the country together. We have four clear bets that will also benefit the Week – at least the first three, which I will mention now. One is climate, collective and environment with greater state responsibility for the collective projects around the big cities – more for the investment, operation and maintenance of the railway and more goods on the road. The second is road safety — more for road safety of the national and county roads and more for pedestrian and cycle routes. We're going to stop the foreign dead rails on the winter roads. Then it's digitisation and enhanced network access. We want broadband for everyone and a marked escalation of broadband development in the districts. The fourth thing worth mentioning is the coastal and north-eastern approach — with the expansion of the fishing ports and a more ambitious commitment to the transport of goods from road to sea. The alternative state budget of the Workers' Party for 2020 is based on these four pillars. It is an ambitious and serious and responsible alternative to the government's budget for transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1642	When I listen to some of the posts here today, I come up with a saying that when you're not sure, raise the voice for the sake of security. There is no doubt that the Progress Party wants a 110 km/h square road. But what about all those people who don't have yellow middle stripe yet, who've been falling over them, and where people are afraid to run on the roads? I mean, life and health must come first. When the representative, Njåstad, points out that the Center Party did not have funds for K5, a track between Voss and Bergen, I must say that there are also some rules for road construction, and that one must have a KVU first and foremost. Then it was great that Solvik-Olsen adopted the K5, and it was very fast to get the plant going. But then it was no less hopeless when the government with the Prime Minister at the head presented the plans for the future of the Arna station where one put the whole thing to rest. However, before the 2017 elections, this would again come about quickly. After the option, one more has not been set. For Ringeriksbanen, which is also an important part of Bergensbanen, it is not yet possible to deliver control plans. It was about Haukelifjell and the tunnels there – an important thing to come. It was within the last period of the previous NTP, is gone in the first part of this – has not started. There has been a lot of talk here about there being a lot of lag on the county roads when this government took over. At least it hasn't decreased. In Hordaland, there has been an increase in the demand for county roads, and one sees that the challenge of racial protection and upgrading on county roads is not going to keep up with what is happening, because it goes down. There have been a lot of good words about New Ways, and it would only be missing when you get completely different intentions than others, if you can't make this a little more reasonable. Not everyone is helping if they are all about projects, as long as they are not prioritizing them. In Hordaland, a new project has not actually been launched in this first part of the NTP. The sotra connection was due to arrive, and it was due to be fast due to OPS. At least it hasn't started yet. Maybe it would have been better to build it another way, so that you could have built it gradually and not just postpone it and postpone it before you get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1659	So far, this debate has shown a clear difference between the four government parties' zeal to renew and improve transport policy here in the country and the idea of drying up the opposition. But some things have also repeated themselves from before. The representative's hard-working effort to pick up the money from profitable holiday-free projects such as Rogfast and Hordfast in the West to spend them on a less profitable project in his own backyard is one of the examples of it. It's said you're close to yourself. SV will show it again and again in this discussion. The centre party, of course, criticises the loops of state roads, despite the fact that they are about the transferred a number of roads, which are now state roads, from 2010 without fully financing the task transfer. It's possible it's more fun for the Center Party to meet itself at the door than to meet someone else there, but at least it sings in glasshouses when one hears the argument from the Center Party in that area today. It's not the only thing. The centre party is concerned about the total charges to be paid by the carist, while a cut in urban growth agreements around the big cities, which must only mean that collective services and tolls are cut off, as an alternative. As long as the sympathies of the Center Party lasted with Norwegian motorists. The working party is trying to doubt the Sotra connection. There's no reason. The sotra compound is still under planning and must naturally be built. I've said that repeatedly in the storeroom before. Other representatives from the Workers' Party are concerned about the progress and closure of the Kvänang mountain, but precisely because we have implemented reforms, such as the creation of the New Road, the project is fully funded and placed in the portfolio. It's a project that's being built as soon as it's done, and it doesn't wait to wait in line like other transportation projects, because we have the courage to make structural changes in the transport sector. One thing that has been heard in general from this debate is that everything was better before, and it must be a description of reality that the opposition continues to do, but before we got fewer train departures, fewer new roads, worse supply when we tried to buy train services, fewer possibilities to develop commercially profitable flights in the districts – all of this is under work now because we have got a government that dares to challenge the old monopolies in the sector. That is the greatest difference between the position and the opposition in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1674	This government prioritises broadband and communication infrastructure. Nearly all households in the country today have the possibility of getting broadband with a basic rapidity. Also for the fast broadband there has been a formidable development. In 2019, a total of 86 psts. of Norwegian households offering 100 Mbit/s broadband, against only 63 pst. in 2013. In scattered strata, these developments are particularly joyous. The availability of the high-speed Internet will depend in the future on more than the standard fixed broadband network. It is important to contribute to the holistic use of digital infrastructure, i.e. the optimal functioning of the wire-based network with radio-based solutions, mobile networks and satellite as a complement. 4G is built into large monns, but now that 5G is being rolled out, we're going to experience a quantum leap of technology, where the business community can use the value of digitization and connectivity to an even greater extent. Fifth generation mobile networks will be able to give us smart cities, new industry and e-health. While 3G gave us data and mobile apps and 4G streaming of video, 5G could give us a lift along multiple dimensions. It will give us a higher speed, an internet thing, a low lag and guaranteed capacity. It is important to stimulate the whole ecosystem industry to come up with new solutions and products. Policy tasks here are to facilitate the optimisation of the holistic transport network for digital communications. The Minister for Digitalisation has started work on a key message on the electronic communications market. This is important, and it's backwards. Market-based policies, where private operators are mainly responsible for the development and financing of broadband provision, have been in the habit for many years and are very successful. The development of 5G raises a number of new questions, including: in business and district policy, security and choice of suppliers and network neutrality. We're approaching a society where everything and everyone is connected through the Internet. It is a pleasure to record that today's budget reflects a government that understands the challenges and meets expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1693	It would have been nice if we could spend more of our time here on the pulpit talking about what are the challenges, rather than talking about what is excellent about our own policies. People out there don't recognize themselves in the description that the government party people have come with from the pulpit. I want to spend my contribution on a small amount of money in the state budget that is of great importance not only to a region, but also to our defence capabilities. Ørland Municipality is the host municipality for our fighter aircraft. It's almost 10 billion invested. kr in defence infrastructure, and new fighter aircraft are purchased for tens of billions. The Committee on Transport and Communications visited the Örland region to learn about their challenges. We see a high-tech change in our defense. This requires highly competent staff and good civil infrastructure. The flight offer covers a region of 26 000 inhabitants and saves travellers for three hours of travel each way. The number of travellers has increased from 5000 in 2014 to 22 000 in 2019. The defense provides airstrips, tower services and other facilities. So the airport is basically very cheap to operate. The promises from the red-green government were that the flight route offer would enter the FOT network. It was not done in 2014 by the government, nor in 2019. In addition, the government reduced the grant from 3 million. NOK 2 million. NOK in a five-year agreement. So far, the municipality of Ørland has taken up the additional costs, which are 3 million. kr. It is small in a transport budget, but significant for a municipality. This shows that the government does not see its social mission when they spend billions on defence, but not on the skills and employees on which the Defense depends. I hope the government will think again, so that the important flight offer for the employees is maintained. If not, we are badly afraid that it will be put down now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1702	I got a question from Gunnes' representative that it was not time for us to set new targets for broadband coverage in the country. I am very pleased with the question, because we have announced that we will make a big message where we include. will look at the objectives that will apply when we are now in the process of – as it appears – meeting the ambitious targets set in the Digital Agenda in 2016, which many at the time thought would be demanding. The environmental impact report will also address network robustness and security and competition in the fibre retail market, among other things, to ensure not only that we have good coverage but that we have services that people can afford to use. The representative Sandtrøen thought we had everyday roads where we should have digital highways. I think that's a bit of a claim when it comes from a representative of a party whose degree of fibre expansion in scattered strips was 11 pst. in 2013. That's now we've got the digital highways – not the lanes we used to have. It's going in the right direction, and we're going to enjoy it. What's sad is that the opposition has very little interest in the services we're going to provide over the digital highways. On the contrary, the Workers' Party proposes a severe cut in consulting services such as: goes to ICT projects in the state, i.e. police, Nav and other important areas – in fact 23 pst. cut in consulting services. There will be major implications for the ability to deliver good services digitally that the population can use over these digital motorways that we are now establishing. There's nothing better in the other parties. The centre party also proposes cutting in hundreds of millions of classes, which will also go beyond this type of project. In addition, we are talking here about consulting services that are used for quality assurance, among other things. road projects. They go up because we build more roads than before. The center part also suggests cutting seven million. kr in the Digitalisation Directorate and will thus create uncertainty in Altinn i Brønnøysund and in Diffi i Leikanger. I think that's very unfortunate. SV does not mention digitisation at all in connection with KMD’s budget proposal. So this is the level of ambition in the opposition in terms of digitization. It's nice that the opposition is also concerned about having digital motorways, but we need to pay attention to the services we're going to provide, and the values we're going to create for business through the digital highways that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1721	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1726	When State Council Dale gives me attitudes and motives that are completely foreign to me, such as. it's about new E134 past Lahell, it's like I was going to say from this pulpit that the Council of State had become Manchester United. This is just as untrue – in terms of the attitudes I have. I believe that we should support bypass roads around residential areas. I don't know if the state council knows any other 18 000 examples in ÅDT, annual traffic, in residential areas. If he does, he has to tell me, I'll see if I'm going to prioritize differently, but I think I'm on a pretty safe basis. We in SV have been quite consistent on this, and I think it is at the limit of unreasonable that this is being drawn out as a kind of geographic motif. It's not at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1731	The representative Bengt Fasterale has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1737	In this debate we have heard of both saviors, adventurers and orangutans and that we are supposed to sit here until Dovre falls – and Dovre does not fall, I can only say that right away. I think it was good signals early in the debate, and they probably came – if I don't remember correctly – from committee leader Helge Orten, who said that the state road system must have the same framework conditions as New Roads. He might have said it a little differently, but I interpreted it this way. It may be that both New Roads and the State Road Service can learn a little from each other – you should not ignore that either. I think that's what he meant. I think that's incredibly positive. When we look at the preliminary portfolio as, among other things, New roads have been put forward, in fact, so that they are most likely to have to build both four-field, two-field and three-field roads in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1746	We are approaching the end of the debate. I noticed what the representative Fasteraune said in a previous post, where he believed that this hall had a somewhat ambivalent relationship with tolls. If we go through and look at the voting list for the last six years, it doesn't look like this at least. If we listen to both the Labour Party and the Centre when they talk about tolls, we can get the impression – simply because it is presented as the toll we have in that we are now implementing all the projects in the National Transport Plan is a problem. At the same time, the same parties vote for each and every toll project. I think there must be a connection between expectations and what one communicates out, and how one actually voaters in this room. So to what distinguishes us the most in the debate, and it's about reforms – the opportunity to change the transport sector, as we're already doing well. We have established new roads – yes, we have, and it has shown that it is possible to work in a different way and get results from it. The overall social benefits of projects are increasing, either by reducing costs or increasing benefits, for example: in the form of reduced travel time. It does something about the overall social benefits of the entire national transport plan and the projects we are going to carry out, and I believe that it is a good management tool when projects are measured by whether they increase the benefits of society, because then you are busy keeping the costs down and the benefits up. Similarly, in the railway reform, it is the customer, or passenger, who is in the centre, instead of as in the past, under a monopoly, because we were not able in the same way to take advantage of the benefits we are now seeing, through competition and outsourcing. It shows that competition works, it shows that by outsourced routes, we are able to strengthen the actors in such a way that they both deliver a better offer to passengers and more departures and, in addition, save the State for significant costs. That means that we can develop the railway sector in a completely different way than before, because we have more money available through the state fund to implement it. Then it's a statement that what we could have done under the old structure. Then my question is: why didn't the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV do that when they sat with power for eight years and had the opportunity to both reform, streamline and rethink within the transport sector? There wasn't a single change, and that's exactly where we are now: we see that we're able to take out the effects and benefits of thinking differently, working differently, and making sure to organize ourselves differently. And the means we can now get rid of, both through New Roads and through the railway reform, we can use to develop the transport sector. I believe that is one of the major differences in this debate – between the parties that are now in government and want to help change the transport sector, and those that do not want to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1765	This debate was probably about the way it tends to be — not so far away. The Labour Party and the opposition often criticise the government, and some lack more toll cut – as the Progress Party would primarily do by a majority alone behind it. It is quite special to be accused of a new record in taxes. Yes, that is quite correct – new cars have on average been reduced by 55,000 kroner. It's a new record. The representative Lauvås will come after me later today and will probably take it up again, but the Labour Party will set a different record. They're increasing it by 1.9 billion. kr for next year's budget for ordinary cars. Then comes the electric car plug-in. We can discuss that more on another occasion. The best piece was now on the tap, at Kirsti Leirtrø. At the beginning of the article, she said that we might want to discuss the challenges. I fully agree with that. That's what we should do. That's what the Progress Party and the government have done, and they've met the challenges. New cars were too expensive. That is why we have reduced the fees. Road construction was too expensive. That is why we made a reform. The railway sector was unprofitable, it became too expensive – therefore a reform. That's what we've been dealing with, precisely because we're busy with everyday life for most people, that they're going to get faster and safer, more effective. Former governments have recorded how much money has been spent on these challenges, without thinking about how to make it fairer, faster and better. I don't hear that from the opposition – just that you should go back and do more of the same. When SV almost accuses the Advance Party of being against the railway, it's the opposite. I was so lucky to be here and negotiate the NTP you're now running for. Yes, we're busy building the railway. When the opposition says that we should build faster, I think maybe any other government has to deal with a professional advice. If the basic conditions are bad, you can't build. There is a difference between this government with the Advance Party and the former Red-Green Government. I live in an area where there was one railway track and it was important to have double tracks built. It has been unused for almost ten years. This is not the way this government does. We're building what's needed to get there. We are busy with scheduled times and the offer to the customer. That's what we're doing. One of the major challenges to be discussed is how to use taxpayers' money more efficiently and correctly. I welcome it if you can address the challenges we face in this city in terms of the E18 West Corridor. It's a challenge not only for those who are going into the city, but also for those who are going past the city, when in the opposition we have a party, the Center Party, that cuts in the measures of the E18 West Corridor, and the Workers' Party is located locally that is opposed. I thought maybe the Working Party here in Stortinget was too. It could have been interesting to discuss. There is a challenge of 80,000 ÅDT through a housing strike, as SV was concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1778	It's almost as if someone needed an ambulance outside the hall. I have had a harmful overdose Progress Party crutch today. Even the Minister of Finance was in touch with a little greeting and boasted of the figures she controlled, or should have control of at least. But first to Astrup and the government parties' history of the Workers' Party's broadband bet before this government took over. In 2014, Technische Ukeblad wrote about the state budget: ‘Broadbands in the countryside become the loser in the state budget.’ They wrote that the ‘IT industry is warning of delayed expansion’ when the government cuts 100 million. kr in the budget submitted by the red-green government. That story should a maybe read something out of it. It is a little special when the representative Dagfinn Olsen takes credit for the fact that the Workers' Party has better budgets than the government. Then there should perhaps be a chance that Dagfinn Olsen could join in and turn up his budgets a little more. I was quoting an expert, who was recommended by Arne Nävra, and said that experts should be listened to. I think that's a very good tip to the government from Igstad, because the government that's now sitting almost never listens to professional advice and experts. It is extremely gratifying that the Minister for Digitalisation has launched a big message about echoes, because we are also concerned about the future of electronic communications. The 5G bet and what 5G can contribute to society in the future is a huge challenge to tackle. But it requires that there is more broadband out there, and I sincerely hope that we get proper coverage also out there where things are much more expensive than in the cities. To my amazement, I note that I agree with the Left for once. We're also busy with 5G.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1798	So here comes the monopolist Myrli, as Bård Hoksrud called me. By the way, I think Hoksrud could pull on a bit and be a little engaged when he keeps posts in the Storting, and not be as careful as he often is from this pulpit! Hoksrud referred to the transformation of the Telework, and that's a very good example. Fortunately, the Workers' Party ruled the country at that time and was in the midst of the completely necessary reorganisation of the Telecom. Then the state used its ownership in Telenor to develop the company of the modern, forward-looking company as it is today. Imagine if the government had done the same thing with the NSB, the company developed into a modern transport company that could claim to compete with others, who could launch the course forward as part of the green shift! Now, the government's wing cutter is NSB, or Vy, which it's now called. I'm really glad that it wasn't the Right Party and the Advance Party that put in government in the 1990s, because then they probably had gotten rid of Telenor, as they now put into railway policy. I have to say a little about the self-satisfaction of the government parties in this room. We hear time after time that it has been used so and so much more since 2013. Yes, it would only be lacking if we did not spend more on roads, more on broadband, more on transport in general in 2020 than in 2013! State Council Astrup seems almost a bit surprised that more money is spent on broadband today than what was done earlier. It was just supposed to be missing! It started in 2005 with a large increase in transport appropriations. Then came the ambitious national transport plan in 2009, even more so in 2013. Yes, the last red-green transport plan in 2013 was actually so good that the bourgeois government ran into it for four years. They set aside their own electoral promises and ran over the red-green national transport plan for four years. It was only from 2018 that a national transport plan was presented by the civil government. The working party was supposed to go on. It sounds to some here as if the Workers' Party had completed the road development and finished the railway development in 2013. Of course, we should go on and have great ambitions. That is why every year since 2013, we have also had more money for transportation in our alternative budget than the government has had. Where are the promises going to be? Where do the promises of double tracks go? Now I see Hoksrud on the list of speakers again. He was a transport policy spokesman in 2013, and he suggested in Stortinget that the entire intercity development should be realised by 2025. Now he can answer, where are the promises of intercity expansion? When will double tracks be completed in the East? - I'm happy!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1813	The representative Myrlis' reality is far away at night when I hear how he talks about the national transport plan. The red-green government was able to provide a national transport plan of approx. 480 B.C.E. kr. The Progress Party presented a national transport plan of approx. 1 000 B.C.E. kr. We were led by, and they said it was impossible. Now we are working to implement a national transport plan of about 1000 billion. kr. If that's how the representative Myrli says, that they're so concerned about what they did with Telenor, and that he's so worried about the NSB now, why didn't they do anything of the same thing that was so great for Telenor when you actually sat with the power for eight years? You didn't do any of the world's things. We won a contract just a few days ago. It actually shows that it is possible – the company is able to compete and manage to do well in competition with others. And what's amazing is that now we've put in place a road company, which is set to reduce costs by maybe 28 billion. kr – 30 br. kr on the projects we are going to implement. With the red-green government and what was in the national transport plan in 2013, 50 pst. be financed by tolls. That means 50 pst. of the 28 billion kr – 14 br. kr – is money that the drivers do not pay because the Progress Party is part of the government and has been put in place by the road company which ensures that Norwegian drivers do not have to pay this money. You've taken some grips where the red-green parties couldn't do anything in the eight years they put in government. The only thing they managed to do was transfer a lot of roads to the county councils, which were poor – excuse me, President! – they were very bad. That's what the red-green parties were able to do in the eight years when it was about thinking new and seeing new opportunities. We made proposals about the road company in 2006-2007, and I hope that some representatives will go back and see what the government wrote at the time. It was backwards, they looked back, they dared not do anything new. An entrepreneur came to me when we opened the new fantastic road at home in Bamble. He said: I don't think you really know how great what you've been doing, because this means something to Norwegian transport and Norwegian transport development. I think that's great. It is not so often that one boasts of co-representatives, and I am not sure if he who gets boasted of me is going to see it as a boast, but I think that the representative Nävra said very well when he mentioned the representative Hoksrud and the Progress Party. I was quite proud, and I was quite happy, I! I have said that now I am happy because we are going to sing «Yes, we love», but I was quite happy inside my heart when I heard how he spoke about me and the Progress Party: we are proud to build real, four-field highways, we are proud that it smells asphalt, and we are proud of safe, good roads with 110 km/h speed limit. I hope that there will soon be a slightly higher speed limit on the best roads. It deserves the drivers in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1828	The President greatly appreciates the involvement in matters and in the Chamber, but the expression 'driving badly' is not exactly a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1833	The representative Bom Hoksrud – excuse me, Bård Hoksrud – loves the smell of new asphalt and new roads and proclaims that we are now building our way with the Progress Party at a crazy pace. He also refers to the film's world, where he asks people to see "Back to the Future" and remember what they've done. That is to the extent that a good council of the representative of Hoksrud comes along. For I have Googled, and Hoksrud was, when he was quoted, a great representative. He said, "I can guarantee that it will be toll-free throughout the country." You can only look up, anyone who wants – the Netpaper, otherwise. It didn't quite turn out like that. The representative Hoksrud is at the head of skinning Norwegian drivers at a pace no government has made clear before him. There is no government in Norway that has managed to take as much toll as the sitting government. Then I hear State Council Siv Jensen and Progress Party leader Siv Jensen also boasting that now roads are being built, but you just as fully demand, as I said, tolls that no other government in this country has been near ever to deal with. I also Googled State Council Siv Jensen and Progress Party leader Siv Jensen, as among others. has said, ‘We are going to be in government to implement our policies’. Our programme issues are not to be ‘in order to make compromises’ – the evening post. What about that promise? Here is the Progress Party and votes for tolls. I can also recommend a YouTube video with Siv Jensen, that it should be free to pass all the toll stations in Norway as long as the Progress Party was in government. So it's going away. I hear the Council of State Dale eager to tell me that he's renewing and improving. Yeah, that's what the Dale State Council did. He has renewed the toll collection, as said, at a pace that no one before him has completed, and he has ‘renewed’ the expansion of the Eastfold track by putting it on ice. He simply took it away. With a sentence in the state budget, he says that it is not appropriate to build the Eastfold Railway as it is now. So then I repeat the question, when does the double track come to Halden? Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1844	Then I can continue where the previous speakers failed, namely with the Eastfold Railway. As the previous speaker pointed out, the government is writing a remarkable sentence in the State budget, which is that it is ‘to go ahead with the project in its present form’. It is intercity and the double track to Eastfold government mentions. We are all aware that, with increased costs, you may need to take some savings steps. But from there to putting the whole project on ice and not getting the clarifications you need, it's remarkable. The double-track to Eastfold has let itself wait. The ambitions have been cloud-high, and before, representatives from the government have also been out there promising traces of both the Swedish border and Halden – a long time ago. But the ambitions are not in line with the implementation capacity. Eastfold is ready to take a discussion about saving measures, but from there to cutting stations, from there to cutting out essential elements of intercity development — it is not a matter of intervention. There is no need for an impact assessment to understand that if you cut out the Råde station – yes, you lose much of the function of the Eastfold Railway. We know that it accumulates on E6. It is not many days since the council itself was visiting Svinesund, and he must also have noticed the trunk with heavy transport. If we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and if we are to achieve our climate objectives, we also need to look to Eastfold and get speed on the railway development there. The fact now is that many Eastfold cities are in a vacuum. You don't get the answers you need. In order to achieve nutritional development and proper urban planning, we need answers: Where will the railway go in the future? In Sarpsborg we have a bridge that is soon about to fall into the foot, nicely said, and one has actually been required to plan a new road bridge along with the railway bridge. But we don't get the answers we need with regard to the railway, and that makes the work on the road bridge also stagnate. The situation is unsustainable. In Eastfold cities we need answers, and we have not yet received those answers from the government. I follow up the question: When will we get the double track to Eastfold, and when will the government fulfill its promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1857	I understand that the government doesn't want to talk about the state roads. If the best argument for not doing anything with them is that they were underfunded in 2010, it might be time to look at the years they've had since 2013 to do something about it. Then a better one should see and do something about it. It is frightening when entrepreneurs in the West say that they are at risk of being out of work because of reorganisation in the Road Administration, which means that no one has the strength and the crew to be building managers and to get projects started. The project has been stopped because of the conversion, an unplanned conversion, and where the county authorities do not know what crew they have, they do not know what means they get. Leading people before Vegvesenet says that when Mesta was created, it went three years before it was really going on, and now they're saving it longer. It's not exactly a matter of strengthening the state roads, it's a part of weakening them. So a little bit about the Hordaland County, which has been leading, has managed to electrify the ferries and wants to do it on the speedboats. The Central Party has proposed that they be helped to get this going, all the states that have the challenges. There are no funds in the budget to help and strengthen that commitment, which means that those who really go ahead and try to get a hold of the climate will be punished for the next round. One looks at the challenge of getting a budget in the county. It is good that digitisation becomes better, but it is obvious that we live in a little different ways when we have neither telephone nor radio coverage in many places in the West, either by road or by rail. So one has some area left. Whether it is the Minister of Digitalisation or the Minister of Transport who is responsible for both the radio/DAB connection and the telephone, it is at least important in a security context that there is coverage all over the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1869	Let me first say that it has been a pleasure to be back in the Transport and Communications Committee. I had the pleasure of running that committee, and I see that the entertainment value is still high in the budget debates. So to the representative Langholm Hansen, who is concerned that the government does not grant so much more than what the former government did for broadband subsidies. Let me just say that the annual average from the red-green government from 2010 to 2013 to broadband subsidies was 116 950,000 kroner, so we are now around a quarter of a billion, so it's a stepping-up. Furthermore, it is important to say that state resources are not the answer and the solution to good telecom infrastructure in the whole country. The market-based approach we've had has been very successful and has made us move to a situation where 99.9 pst. of Norwegian households have access to basic broadband services, and there 86 pst. Norwegian households have access to high-speed broadband. It's been a formidable development. Now let's stick to a model that has worked well, even though in the debate one can get the impression that there is a system where state funds are going to shift private investment that is going to apply in the future if one listens to the opposition. I disagree. I am pleased that the representative Langholm Hansen is concerned about 5G, so am I. I might wish that precisely the possibilities of the combination of 5G, the Internet of Things and artificial intelligence had been a greater part of the traditional transport debate in this room, because there is no doubt that both smart cities and intelligent transport systems are getting completely new opportunities with the foundation that 5G will provide for real-time data transmission. This is the foundation for self-driving cars, for a completely different type of traffic planning in and around the big cities and also in small and medium-sized cities. Here are the great opportunities, and we have to put them into practice and have an offensive attitude to it. That is why I am pleased that Norway is going to be one of the first countries in Europe to roll out 5G and are therefore well positioned to take part in the opportunities that this new technology will give us. Telia has announced that they are going to have a national 5G network already in 2023. We do not yet know the schedule for Telenor, but we know that they are strong competitors, and there is reason to expect that there will be a rapid commercial roll-out of this in Norway. We're going to provide the authorities with the opportunity to take part in the opportunities offered by this new technology, also in the transport sector and in other parts of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1882	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1887	I would like to comment on the statements of the Council of State, but it was Bård Hoksrud who made me take the floor. When you give advice on real-world orientation, you should do it yourself. I do not characterize it as a further development of Vy when Vy has become a crew member. They do nothing but provide staff to operate and operate the train, and of course the administration around it. They don't have trains, they have nothing but employees. So when it comes to reality orientation, you really should do it when you meet yourself at the door like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1894	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1899	I couldn't stop when the representative Lauvås took the floor and talked about tolls. I'm not very impressed by someone who represents a party that always votes for tolls, and who has local disciplines around the country flying on to get the most toll possible. Then it's much more delicious to represent a party that will work to remove tolls. It was a great feeling to travel to Alta. The representative Karlstrøm from the Workers' Party asked us to travel to North Norway. I was in North Norway in 2013, and unlike the Workers' Party, which wanted to apply the car lists to the tolls, the Progress Party made sure to get up there and remove toll stations – 310 million. kr less in tolls. In Westfold, the red-green areas will have a higher toll tariff. The party of progress in the government is responsible for reducing tolls. We traveled to Seljord and Åmot – removing the tolls that the red-greens had adopted and put forward about just before the 2013 elections. It shows a difference. There's someone who wants something and wants to reduce tolls, and then I really don't let myself be impressed by these ones that are so great for these tolls, and that criticizes us who want them gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1906	The representative of Hoksrud's flaming post about drying something new may not be so impressive. I am absolutely sure that all those who are waiting for double tracks to Lillehammer, and who are waiting for the Gjøvik course perhaps to get some fewer curves, would have wanted that Bård Hoksrud and other representatives were more concerned that we got in place more rails than just talking about asphalt and tolls. Then some tolls have been removed in Uppland. The toll station between Raufoss and Gjøvik has been removed. It was quite impressive – six weeks before it was to be taken down anyway. After that, the toll stations have sprung up throughout Uppland, and I haven't seen any more that have been removed. It would have been a pleasure for us too to be able to take down some more toll stations. I also need to say something about broadband, because it is important that there is more broadband. Sometimes it seems that only in the least populated districts there is a need to have a broadband effort. But that's not it. I live 6 miles from Oslo, it's considered to be part of Stor-Oslo, at least when the government is going to assess whether they're going to put any government jobs outside Ring 3. There are many places in my neighborhood where you don't get fiber, you don't have broadband coverage, and now the jam is also taken down. There have been attempts to get commercial actors to contribute; there are some both county and state resources, but there is a greater need for young people to be able to do their homework at home and for business to be able to collect their orders. It's not just in Gran it's challenges, we meet it everywhere. So more effort is needed to make sure that the part of the modern infrastructure that broadband contributes to can also benefit more people. That is why the government should have invested more in broadband in its budget. Unfortunately, our budget is still just an alternative budget, but it would have meant too many that we had got more money right in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1915	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1920	It's fun when government parties get criticism for being too happy. I think it's good to be happy that you get things done, because the opposition really hasn't done anything – you just do what you did before, which didn't work. So I have to give you a little bit more attention. There has been a great debate on this today. It sounds like all the nearly 7,000 people working in the Vy are driving trains. Then you might have to put a foot in the ground and ground up a little bit. Then you can look at how many people are driving a bus, and how many people are involved in travel and car sharing services. The few people in the Vy drive trains. Vy runs for other trains in Sweden, while some are against the Swedish railway driving in Norway. We drive in Sweden and have done it for many years. When it comes to expanding the railway in Eastfold, it's okay to check the basic conditions first, instead of deciding to build rails that you can't use. Otherwise it becomes like in Westfold, where they have been lying ten years without being used. We're going to build them because we're going to have mobility for people the most in everyday life, and we're doing the best we can with this government – the Solberg government with these four parties has found good solutions and should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1929	The representative Nils Aage Igstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1934	I have three happy messages: Point 1: Today I get fiber on my cabin in Storlidalen, it's at least edged, but it gets there long before I get it home. Point 2: The east fold track is actually being built, it's not that it's not being built on the eastfold track, we've just started. By 2022 you're done with the Folloban. We started expanding through Moss a week ago, it's finished in 2024. Then we have double tracks from Oslo to Råde. Take the track, and you'll see! Point 3: Thanks to this government, the Ringerix Railway is not budgeted for 1.5 billion. kr, as the previous government had to plan to start, it is at some thirty billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1945	I will try to calm down as the debate is hopefully nearing the end. But there are some considerations that I've in any case done through the five hours we've now held. One is that the policy is being drawn in the right direction. Not many years have passed since an overall opposition was opposed to the establishment of New Roads. Now everyone recognizes that it works, except for those who try to cut the loops, for example, the Center Party, but some other parties have at least realized that they're here to stay. The resistance is not so strong anymore. When we introduced the arrangements for reduced toll tariffs in the districts, the Labour Party was opposed. Now they're for. The question is whether what we actually see from the opposition is a six-year delay. It takes a little longer, but they come after when they just see that things actually work. I think we're going to see it in more areas with the budget the Stortinget is now up to adoption. Reforms continue, we're going to have more infrastructure left for the money, we're going to keep building the country, we're going to build bigger construction and labour market regions, we're going to cut distances for business. And then it's okay to remind the opposition that the cow has our calves – at least an old agricultural minister can occasionally do it – because it was the way the Center Party refused to put full pressure on the intercity triangle in 2012. It's just to look at the playback they had at that time. The Labour Party has said they want a new E18 in the West Corridor. I hope it still stands by layers here on the house, but one has now given it away in negotiations with e.g. The Green Party in Oslo. What is the common challenge to the opposition, and as this debate shows better than anything else, is that they are not any of it. This means that we have two alternatives in Norwegian policy a day: a multi-annual government party that reforms, renews and improves the supply of people across the country, and an opposition that doesn't know what to prioritize, how fast they should build, or what kind of areas to put in reverse. Hopefully, the opposition party has many years to figure out while they are in opposition. In the meantime, we will manage Norway safely through the necessary reforms, as in some ways, to build our country stronger together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1957	I notice that the representative Hoksrud with great commitment tells me that there are examples of toll stations that have been shut down under today's government. It's kind of like standing and boasting that one has hit a diurnal fly a few hours before it's going to depart at death, and at the same time it's been popping up ever new flies around you. There have never been more toll stations; there have never been more tolls in Norway than with the Progress Party at the rudder: from approx. 9 B.C.E. SEK in tolls in 2013 for expected 13 billion. Now kr. The reality that people experience, you have to admit, instead of standing here waving your arms and giving the impression that you're busy reducing your tolls. If the Progress Party had been concerned with reducing tolls, they should have prioritised it instead of giving tax cuts to some of those who have the most from before in Norway. That's what's been the priority of this government, it's been massive tax cuts to those who have the most from before, while ordinary people have received record high tolls and record high taxes as well. I record that the E18 west of Oslo became the topic of the debate. That makes a lot of sense. I also record that the Council of State argues in various contexts that one must build that road to 40 billion. kr, if no one could put collective action at risk. The only way that such a argument can jump on is that if you're going to milk those who pay tolls for even more money, not just to pay for the road, but also to pay for collective action. Of course, one will have more room for prioritising other projects if a downscaler E18 west of Oslo – such as one both in Oslo and in the new county council of Viken – speaks for, and the centre party has promoted a number of proposals over time. When you're talking about county roads and it's unmet needs, so now it's the seventh budget this government has put forward. There is still a situation around Norway with holes in roads and razed sections. Of course, not everything can be taken in one year, but one has to prioritise the higher. That's why the Center Party has been concerned that we need to give priority to the county roads, we say 1.2 billion. kr extra in the year's budget. We must give priority to racial protection, and we must give priority to infrastructure throughout Norway. We need to provide more funds for those states that have high costs for boating and ferrying, and we need to provide more funding for both broadband and mail delivery. It is about prioritising policy, and the Centre Party prioritises Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1966	The representative, Jon Gunnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1971	The debate today started quite well, I think, considering that we talked a lot about the climate challenges. Almost all the lots mentioned it in their main post. In the last two hours, it's probably not a single representative who mentioned it. Now we're mostly arguing about tolls or not, and whether we're actually peeling the drivers, as Stein Erik Lauvås said in his post. The left shall balance this. We're in government, so are we. That is why we still have the polluter-pays principle. In the case of air passenger charges, in the case of toll collection, and in the case of several CO 2 charging schemes. What we should be more concerned about today is how to solve the climate challenges, because in transport we have some low-hanging fruits.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1981	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1986	There is no reason for the representative of Hoksrud or the Progress Party to resign to the Workers' Party. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have voted exactly the same since 2014 when the government has come to the Stortinget with their proposals to collect tolls. We have voted in the same way. That's how the representative Hoksrud and I are just as big or small toll enthusiasts. The progress game has no reason to hit the chest. They have lost their case even if the party leader said they should not compromise on this. Then I repeat for the fourth time to the Council of State Dale: When does the double track arrive at Halden? The year lasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e1993	It has been claimed from the pulpit here that the Eastfold Railway is being built. Yes, it is built to Moss, but from there the further plans are remarkable enough in the blue. There's created doubts about the wired station. We have not yet received the answers to the questions. If the government parties can now come with guarantees that we're getting advice station, that we're getting station in Fredrikstad, and that we're getting the double track through Eastfold as planned, then it's happy news. The honourable Member's own rapporteur in the Council has not concealed the despair. If we are to achieve the climate objectives, and if Eastfold is to have efficient transport solutions, we are totally dependent on having a double track through Eastfold. We have still not received an answer. What is it that you can't go on as planned? We're waiting in suspense. Eastfold needs clarification. What can we deal with in the future? What are we going to plan for? Now it's like I'm running this Eastfold track every day, so the representative's invitation to use the track doesn't stand. On the other hand, I can send a request in return: he would like to join us in driving the Eastfold Railway. Now it's like it's crowded on the train, it's standing places, but we east folds are pretty eely, so we're going to create heart space.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2004	For FrPs, it's talking about traffic on Stortinget a little bit like a little Christmas party. For in the South it is not only the birth of Jesus we have a religious relationship with at Christmas, but also that this government, with the Progress Party behind the road trip, has ever adopted the most offensive national transport plan in this country. We're almost doubling the red-green national transport plan, we're building new four-field climate-friendly motorways on which future zero-emission cars can run. Trains get more take-offs, emissions go down and mobility goes up. That is what this is all about: that mobility should be brought up – the freedom that one has to move when one wants to, without state interference. That is what is the transport policy of the Progress Party. I remember when I grew up and there was a rare time when sometimes a new, small road bill was opened at home. It was usually broken and divided and with no middle parts, and it was never four-field. If it was an accident, the speed limit was lowered, and when the FrPs wanted to build the four-field highway, they were led by. That's how it was before. It also brings me to a slightly more serious topic, because there are an incredible number in my home state, West Agder, from Flekkefjord in the west to Kristiansand in the east, who react strongly to statements that someone does not want to build a new four-field E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger. The fact that someone mentions the road as old-fashioned and as a monster road – the road for which the part of the country has fought for years to save lives, which brings mobility and connects the part of the country – is with respect to reporting a little far away from reality. For it actually lives in the districts too, people who prefer to have a new, safe sample path over the dead road that is there today. I myself drive the E39 several hours a week to get to work here at Stortinget, just to do a job for my constituents at home in West Agder, who want to have a new four-field E39. But in the South we're a patient people, and we've been waiting for E39 long. We're waiting a little bit longer, but time doesn't have to shift the focus. The projects are in line. We have the outer ring road in Kristiansand that needs to be in place just to avoid heavy traffic going through Kristiansand Center. For some reason, it is climate friendly for trucks to drive or queue through the centre, rather than being on the ring road around the city. We have the entire distance between Lwigal and Ålgård, which is state plan. Here it is important that the project comes when it comes, with good runs, good crossings and good connections to cities and towns. Therefore, we need more commitment to build a new, climate-friendly and traffic-proof motorway between Kristiansand and Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2017	I thought I'd hit a battle for train commuters. Since I'm soon celebrating 40 years as a train commuter between Drammen and Oslo, I'm talking a little for my sick mother. Today I have a touch, little thing. It is an annual card between Drammen and Oslo that also serves as a customer card with a discount on all other sections. Three weeks ago I was in Kristiansand at a conference and bought a ticket tour-return Drammen-Kristiansand with a discount on my fine annual card, which is also a customer card. But from Monday on, it's over. Then Go-Ahead takes over that line, and then I can no longer use that card as an annual card with a discount on that distance. Since I live in Buskerud, there will be several trips in the Gulf, and yet I can use my annual card to get a discount on trips to Halden, Fredrikstad, Moss and Ski. It'll end soon as well. Kongsberg is located in Buskerud, and there are many who commute Kongsberg–Oslo. A big, big wish from the people of Kongsberg is two trains an hour. They have it partly today. Every two hours there are two trains, because then the South Railway goes through Kongsberg and into Oslo, correspondingly opposite way. If one goes into view.no and checks the schedules of Kongsberg-Oslo today, one sees exactly that – one train per hour as the base, and one extra train every two hours. But go check on Monday, December 16. Then there's only one train per hour, because on that extra train, which goes every two hours today, it says from December 15th Go-Ahead. So then commuters from Kongsberg cannot use that train, if one is not interested in paying their trip for the second time. I asked Solvik-Olsen about this when we debated the railway reform in 2015. I was just relieved that there were irrelevant issues. I have sent a written question and received an answer from Dale about the same thing, but I do not get an answer to exactly what I am asking about: What will the government do to ensure that we, as commuters, do not get a worse route offer by having to stand over a part of the trains that Vy will not transport in the future? And what does one do so that commuters can still have an annual card that works as a customer card and gives discounts on other routes, so that commuters also get more expensive train travel than today? I miss answers to those questions. I think the government should take that problem seriously, because it's about people who are among the railway's most important customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2026	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2031	I think it's pretty interesting. There are so many speakers who in the course of the debate have asked speakers from the government parties: When are the double tracks in the East finished? What are the visions for the development of the railway? When do we have double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden, Skien and Hønefoss, to which there has been broad political support? We don't get any answers. The visions for the future development of the railway are gone. And I understand that, perhaps, when I hear Roy Steffensen, for he could tell that he had yesterday sat and looked at the 2012 budget hearings! He uses it for leisure purposes, budget hearings that are seven years old. It may not be so strange that there will be a lack of perspectives for the future. But Steffensen also said that I, obviously together with Magne Rommetveit, had been to Ålgård and promised something. It's just a catch by that story: I've never been to Ålgård. So there must simply mix Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2036	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2042	The transport debate is, hopefully, approaching the end, and then the big toll discussion always comes up. I think it is remarkable that every time we deal with transport matters, we should have a big toll debate associated with it, and that both the Workers' Party and the Centre are equally surprised in every debate that there is a toll station nearby, when the same parties agree to vote for absolutely all the toll propositions that have been put forward in this Chamber. It is, in my view, a completely pointless discussion. There is a large, broad majority in this Chamber for the projects implemented and their financing. We can spend time discussing more meaningful things. So I just want to use the last few seconds to thank you for the debate. As we begin to approach religious conditions in the debate on transportation, as we do here, it may be time to take Christmas soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2049	I would like to make a few comments about the religious perception of the social situation in South Africa. There are still many challenges to building a road in South Africa. It didn't go as fast as it was promised in the election campaign. The trade budget for the Workers' Party is over 1 billion. kr more than the government puts on the table. It's not just at the government level and state level that we see that the Workers' Party is busy getting on the road. We also see that in the county the Labour Party is in the front when it comes to financing and facilitating local transportation. When the Workers' Party has more money for district roads than the Progress Party and the government has, it will also be more possible, for example. to Hidra Landfast, on which the West-Agder Workers' Party has stood hard in the county. Then there are questions about Gartnerleukka and the Outer Ring Road in Kristiansand. I heard that the representative Meininger Saudland mentioned the Outer Ring Road, but not Gartnerleukka. Gartnerløkka is the most urgent project in Kristiansand, and I hope the Minister for Transport accepts the request from local politicians in Kristiansand to have a meeting with him. Then we have one more thing that is the result of what we see from this government, and that's the fragmentation and privatisation that also happens within the transportation area. Down here, we have a nice museum railway, the Setesdal Railway, that goes from Vennesla and up in the country. What has happened now, with this government, is that the future of these museum tracks is uncertain. It worries us in West Agder. It's a tourist magnet, it's a very good measure for children and young people, and it's idealistic drivers who, on a voluntary basis, make sure that these pathways are maintained. There is a lot of uncertainty for employees who work in what was formerly the NSB – I almost don't know what it's called, because now there are so many different companies inside the picture. Before, it was at least such that they had a safe job. All that has been thrown on the boat by this government. Now there's all the uncertainty about business transfers, and then they cheer because Vy has now got an undertaking on Bergensbanen. It was just supposed to be missing. We wouldn't have to have any other providers than the NSB if we had used the money properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2062	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2067	The representative of the place was surprised that the debate in the Stortinget once again evolved into a debate on tolls. It is not the Central Party that has taken decisions on major promises to remove the tolls in Norway, but there is reason to point out that when representatives from the Progress Party boast of removing some toll stations, the party with the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance — and has done so for the past six years — opted for the removal of the tolls in Norway, and the fasitium is that they have never been higher. Then I also notice that more and more representatives from the government parties are talking about one having a national transport plan of 1000 billion. kr – and compare this with the previous transport plan. Firstly, one does not care about calculating the price increase that has been, nor has it extended the planning period from ten to twelve years. In addition, there is reason to ask the control question: Is it such that the centre party was against the use of 1000 billion. In the new transport plan? No, the Center Party was for that, but we want to spend the money in a different way, so we're developing the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2074	I know that this budget is far from my constitutional responsibility, but there was something in the debate that is my constitutional responsibility, namely museum operations and our museum paths. I'm just going to make sure that the Minister of Transport now has competitive parts of the Norwegian railway, which will give us many billions more to go with in the coming years. Then we're also going to be able to take care of the museum tracks. The government has said that it will come back with the organisation of the museum message we are about to bring. We're going to take care of our industrial memories, and we're also going to do a little better cleanup in terms of departmental responsibility. The challenge with the museum sector today is that very many parts of it belong to different parts of the public sector. Something is below the Minister of Transport, which lies below the Minister of Defence – yes, most ministers have a part in the museum world. With the museum message we want to do a cleanup in this area. It was the government that intervened and made sure that security was created also around our museum tracks. The volunteer and the commitment that lies there, we're going to take care of. We'll get back to that in the new museum message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2081	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2098	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who would have to sign over the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2105	This is mainly an aggregate proposition for legislative amendments related to changes proposed in the State budget. Where the parties disagreed on the budget, we also disagree on the necessary legislative amendments. The exception is the right to care allowance at the death of the child, which fell away from the expansion of care allowance in 2017, but which is wanted to be reinstated by both government and bulking. The Ministry has sent out a legal text to consult to ensure this, but the entire committee, with slightly different arrangements, feels that the system can be reintroduced more quickly. The government's proposal not only reintroduces the entitlement to care allowance at the death of the child for those who have received care allowance for more than three years, but also extends the scheme, so that those who have had care allowance for less than three years are also entitled to care allowance, but then for six weeks. With the vote of the majority, this will enter into force from 1 January 2020. The right considers that ensuring the sustainability of the welfare state for the future is one of our most important tasks. Therefore, it is necessary to adjust, amend or remove benefits and arrangements when it appears that they either do not work after intention, have been replaced over time by other services or have lost their function. This increases the welfare state’s ability to take care of those who need it the most. It is unsocial to maintain or extend schemes that do not work, as this not only weakens the economic foundations of the welfare state, but also the quality and content of the assistance provided by the welfare state is intended to provide. In the budget debate, our formulation of arrangements that have lost their function was used as a strawman to argue against other changes in general. Today, when we remove the support for text phone, it is just a scheme that has lost its function. And before anyone mentions unsocial cuts, I remind you that this is a device that is no longer in production. When one of our leading occupational life researchers calls work clearance money a roller band out of work and into the outside world, as Simen Markussen at the Frischsenter did in the Newspaper, we find it worth listening, especially because both statistics and evaluations showed that the system did not work properly. Little is as unsocial as maintaining schemes that don't work. It is both a bear service to users and a misuse of community resources. The government has made changes to schemes in general and is now also following up Nav's own recommendations to change the benefit for young people under 25 to be about the same amount as for peers on the qualification programme. This is done without reducing the budget so that the year’s savings are reduced Nav for faster and closer follow-up of the target audience. I think it is good that the opposition is so clear against the changes in the AAP. It shows a dividing line in Norwegian policy between those who weaken our common well-being and its carrying capacity for the future by extending and eroding mechanisms to those who no longer reach either the target audiences or the objectives, and us who want a well-functioning, sustainable welfare country where the community promises the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2126	This matter is actually a reprisal to the budget debate of last week, so we know what the result is, unfortunately: some of those who have little, are going to get even less. In the Granavolden Declaration – if Google can count – the government mentions the word ‘poorness’ 21 times. It says one of the places: ‘To build strong communities, we need to reduce poverty, implement an integration promise and create a society where people can live free and independent lives.’ Poverty is not just a matter of individuals. Increasing poverty and social disparities are a social problem that concerns us all. When the government of the Granavolden Declaration says that low unemployment and high employment are crucial to ensuring the sustainability of the welfare society, they are quite right to do so, and also when they state in the Declaration that Norway will in future need to use a greater proportion of the labour force in the population. Many of them are immigrants and refugees. At the same time, we know that government is relatively far from reducing poverty. The social differences are increasing. The number of children in poor families is increasing. Every time this issue is raised, representatives of the government parties are quick to explain that yes, but it is due to immigration. The leftover impression is that then it's kind of not that dangerous. Yes, it is true that over half of the children in poor families belong to families with immigrant backgrounds, and that the children of refugees are most vulnerable, but it doesn't do anything better. On the contrary, it should call for an extra effort, but the government is doing the opposite. When the Stortinge treated the so-called refugee settlement in the previous period, one of the points was that the government was going to come back with an assessment of whether there were features of the Norwegian welfare community that made it extra attractive to come to Norway. When the government came back with Prop. 85 L for 2016-2017, where they proposed to shift the refugees out of the public interest and to social assistance and additional social benefits, there was no evidence that the benefits of popular interest have led to a disproportionately high number of asylum arrivals in Norway or that the benefits themselves have hampered activity and self-sufficiency. It was not so strange, because there is no research that supports this, nor internationally. On the contrary, heavy hearing bodies, such as Nav itself, KS, LO and NHO, warned against adopting the proposals, precisely because they could inhibit integration and lead to increased poverty. The proposals were then also voted down at the time by all other parties. Only the Right and Advance Party were in favour. Now the suggestions are on the table again. The only thing that's changed since the last time is that the Left and Christian People's Party has gone into government. The proposals are not getting any better for that reason. Unfortunately, they are adopted, and there is a heavy responsibility on the Left and Christian People's Party in this matter. Then I would give an explanation of vote, but I'm not going to get it, so I'm going to draw it again and come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2144	The centre party is responsible for complacency – a complacency between the full-time workers, the partially employed and those not in the job. The line of the centre party is to change and improve the welfare performance, and we notice that the government parties say ‘adjust, change and remove benefits’. There is a change of mind here. The centre party has a dynamic relationship with the welfare performance, but we're going to make it economically safer, while people get better help from Nav to participate in their work skills. The government says that budget appropriations have increased to 444 billion. kr. Yeah, that's right. The budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is 33,8 pst. by the State budget. There is a huge increase as a result of older people with a higher income base. The centre party is firmly committed to the care of the weakest groups. For this reason, we are opposed to reducing the minimum benefits for youth unemployment benefits between 18 and 24 years of age by NOK 70 000, which would mean that too many people still have to live at home with their parents or become more dependent on social support. We are in favour of one not liquidating the specific rules of popular fear for refugees, which are some of the most vulnerable. It is not wise for them to live more on social support. We are opposed to a general increase in the requirement to live from three to five years for various social security benefits. It is important to call about these arrangements. We agree that for three months after the death of the child, the right to care allowance is to be reinstated for parents who have had care allowance for more than three years. We also agree that one should be entitled to care allowance for six weeks for parents who have received care allowance for less than three years. It is clear from the comments of the Centre Party that we are opposed to the bill on amendments to the People's Security Act §§ 11-20 and § 11-21. It is also clear from our remarks that we are opposed to IV and the bill on changes in the law on social security as a result of raising the requirement for living time for the right to an old age pension, benefits for surviving spouses, child pensions, disability benefits, redundancy benefits and social benefits to a single mother or father from three to five years old. We don't want to vote against the recommendation that's wrong, because it will complicate the vote here very much, but it's clear from the comments what is the central party's position on the various legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2167	Most of the changes that will be considered in this aggregation are SV in contrast. There are essentially changes that have been made if you want to create more poverty and save money at the expense of people in a difficult situation. Increasing the requirement for abstinence for certain people's rights is only unfair. That proposal will not lead to more participation or a better situation for people who already have a difficult time. It will only lead to a poverty-creating waiting room for these people. Today, there is a serious and unfair cut for young people in redundancy payments and in the right to an age pension for refugees. This will undoubtedly lead to a much colder society, and I am very surprised that the Christian People's Party has now settled on this line. Furthermore, it is in principle good that the government will reintroduce the right to care after the child's death, but there is something unfair in what is agreed today, and there is discrimination over whether one has received care for more than or less than three years. Losing your own child is one of the worst things you can experience, and then there should be differences in your rights and the time you have to change afterwards is unintelligible for SV. It's just as bad and difficult anyway. Nursing mothers report to us that this is perceived as a source of grief discrimination. With the system under way, there is something that scours. Nav today wants one for his own illness to leave the care scheme and get sick money. There is a part of these families who periodically experience that the situation around the child’s disease is getting easier, and who are thus trying to work for shorter periods. This kind of delay, I think, could lead to fewer people getting the right that we're voting on today than what's meant. I have asked the Council of State what it will cost to have an equal arrangement for everyone. The answer came today: 5.3 million. kr. There is little money to ensure non-discrimination and to avoid the discrimination of parents who have lost their own seriously ill children. I had hoped that today, once for all, we could have made a fair and good care arrangement that everyone in the Storting was a few about. If I get time for a short explanation of vote now, I won't do it since: We are the majority of the time in this setting, so we vote against the whole setting to make it easy to vote later today. But I would like to point out that we are for the changes on the appeals to social security and various technical adjustments, even if we vote against today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2186	The budget debate is closed. Today it's the law changes, but it's in place, I think, to mention especially a few things. I can start by appreciating that this year's budget is not taxed, as it is often claimed. I'd like to mention two relationships. Since 2000, there has been an increase of more than 50 pst. by young people aged between 18 and 29 who receive redundancy benefits or disability benefits. There are too many, and something has to be done. The group is composed, and the reasons can be many. The Christian People's Party is working to ensure that the measures during the clarification period are effective, and that the young people themselves actively contribute to creating their own everyday life and future according to their assumptions. Those who are seriously ill must be told their disability as soon as possible. But very many can probably get a better life situation in both the short and long term if they get into a job or education they can master. Here is the challenge of our time for both school, business and young people. Most young people on redundancy pay may have little or no work experience and need adapted input, motivation and support. In this context, one of the measures is to reduce the minimum rate to two thirds in relation to current levels. I think it must be right to compare the system of income for peers who do not go on social security. Then it turns out that the support has been liberal, and it can't be that in the short term it will be more profitable to go to social security than to work or take education. The other thing I want to mention is the reintroduction of the right to care allowance after the child's death. When parents lose a child, it is important that the family frames are as predictable and as good as possible. Parents who have received a care allowance have subsequently settled down and may have a weaker relationship with the labour market than parents who have not been out in the labour market with a care allowance, for example. in cases of death due to sudden incidents. Some may be on long-term leave and some may not have a regular job to return to, but will need to seek new work when the care situation ends. The ability of this group to adapt to the new situation and the loss of income may therefore be limited. There will be individual variations in how long each individual needs before one is able to work after losing his or her child. It is therefore not appropriate to regulate the transitional period in the light of a discretionary assessment of the individual’s ability to restart. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that a two-part solution like the one that is now the result is far better. In addition, there is a good deal to be gained from the allowance for any income from work during this period being graduated from the income from the labour force. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the government is ensuring that this arrangement works as early as New Year's Day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2199	The representative, Solfrid Lerbreck, has asked for the word to take up a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2204	I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2209	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2215	The proposals we are discussing here today concern essentially the necessary legislative changes resulting from proposals adopted by the Stortinget in the context of the review of the State budget for 2020, which we debated last week. In addition, some minor changes are proposed in the social security law and some minor changes in the rules. The current minimum rates provide a clearly higher income for young people under 25 who receive redundancy benefits than the average for those in the same age group who do not receive social security or who are in comparable schemes. It is unfortunate that in the short term it is more profitable to receive the AAP than to work or take education, when in the long term it can lead to an increased risk of permanent exclusion. Proposals for amendments are also in line with the recommendations of the Employment Committee. The young disability supplement is now reserved for recipients of disability benefits. The focus of the follow-up shall be on transition to work and education. Close, good and accurate follow-up is particularly important in order to improve the working capacity of young people and help them into work or education. By 2020, it was decided to strengthen the follow-up of young AAP recipients by 119 million. kr. The government has proposed and decided that refugees should be treated in the same way as others who have a short period of residence in Norway, such as the United Kingdom. Nordics with long stays abroad and those who have received collective protection in Norway. At the same time, the supplementary social benefit scheme is extended to disabled refugees, in order to ensure that disabled and elderly refugees continue to enjoy a minimum level of social security at the level of the minimum level. The government proposes to raise the living requirements of the population from three to five years for the right to pensions, disability benefit, AAP and the benefit of a single mother or father. Under the EEA rules, it will still be possible to count on social security from other EEA countries. I am pleased that a joint committee endorses the government's proposal. I am also pleased that there is a broad cross-political consensus on improving the care system for parents who have had sick children and who lose the child. On an incurrence, that arrangement fell away earlier. We are now reintroducing care allowance for those who lose children. We reintroduce it for those who had it before, but we also extend the scheme so that even more people can get the benefit if they lose a child in illness. I am pleased with cross-political support and broad agreement on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2235	I have a question for the Council of State: how does she think that five years' waiting time for the right to work clearance for refugees who actually need job clearance will contribute to faster integration into working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2240	Remedies are something you get when you have a reduced ability to work. It is a health-related performance. If you're not entitled to the AAP, there will be other benefits you could be entitled to. Needless to say, there is a right to help, assistance and follow-up from Nav in any case – you can get action money and other things. However, we believe that it is right to equate refugees with others with short-term residents in Norway. We know that there are many Nordics with long stays abroad who do not have the same rights, and we know that there are people with collective protection, asylum seekers, family reunions and others. So we think it's right to sideline and treat them with short-term living in Norway, regardless of your status, also to stimulate work and activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2247	The right to care during a transitional period, as the Council of State said in its observations, was removed by an incubation in 2017 when the government promoted a proposition for the Stortinget. Three years have passed since this proposition was promoted. Three years is a long time. If this is an incubation that has taken so long to fix, and that concerns people in a very vulnerable situation, I wonder: What action has the Council of State taken to ensure that such incubators will never happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2252	I think it is difficult to guarantee that the incubators will never happen again – I think neither signed nor anyone else in this room can guarantee that. But it's true that it was an incurrence that that right fell away. We were made aware of it by families who made contact themselves. That's why it was important for us to reintroduce what was, for the very few families who got earlier – before it was very strict entry conditions in order to get care money if a child died – and we have also expanded this considerably, to also apply to all those who didn't before, precisely because the old scheme wasn't good enough for these families either. So it's that you could also be entitled to sickness benefits, so that those families could have the opportunity to get income insurance even before. But I am very happy that we now both get back what was, and improved the arrangement significantly for those who did not before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2259	I hear the Council of State says that you can never be insured against incubators. But three years is quite a long time since a change has been promoted that by a so-called incursion has removed a right, so that it can now be corrected. Then I wonder: Does the Council of State think that three years to put in place the right that was removed is acceptable time use?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2264	It's not been three years since one was made aware of the incurrency. When it was made aware that this right had lapsed, we immediately started working to review this and not least look at how to reorganize it. In the past, there were very few people who were given care if you got into the unhappy situation of losing your child, it only applied if you had had a care allowance for more than three years. If you had had it for two years and nine months, you didn't get it. Of course, we could have reintroduced what was, but we thought that was too bad. And when we wanted to improve the system, it was important to look at how to set this up. We believe that we will have a good order now. I am also pleased that there is a cross-political consensus about the arrangement we are now introducing, because that means that very many of the families who never had, now will be able to receive care in the difficult situation you are in after losing a child.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2271	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2278	The proposition deals with a number of legislative changes, including: cut to the minimum benefit of under 25-year-olds on redundancy pay. It has been claimed several times by the interlocutor that the changes are in line with the recommendations of the Employment Committee. That's not entirely right. The employment committee issues whether you live away, whether you live at home, and not least those in the upper age category up to 25 years, so here I think the government has balded and picked a little from what it thinks is appropriate. Much of this has been debated in this room earlier, so I want to draw attention to the changes in care allowance. Over the last few years, the Storting has dealt with several issues relating to care allowance, but as has been mentioned on this pulpit, a mistake was made in 2017, and it was a serious mistake. The removal of the change from having a care allowance after the child's death as a transitional arrangement was not included in the hearing, nor was it included in the proposition. It is critical that this was not caught up and has not been corrected in the past, but when the situation is like this, I am glad that we are getting cleaned up, and that we are getting a system in place quickly. The Workers' Party supports the proposal that, during a transitional period, all who receive care allowance at the time of the death of the child should be entitled to care allowance. Most of us can only imagine the terrible situation it must be to lose a child. I would like to stress that we in this room will never be able to judge how long parents might be able to use to get back to work, and when you are ready for it. It is therefore important that the transitional period is a guarantee of income, an opportunity to have some time to start a dialogue with an employer or, where appropriate, a doctor to assess sickness benefits. There are large individual differences here, but it is important that the economic security of income is in place in such a situation. The amendment deals with parents in an extremely vulnerable situation, and then it is important that the system around us be predictable and that we work together. It has not been the case in this case. Then it's time for it to be cleaned up, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2289	I won't spend much time, just give the explanation of vote that I didn't get in the way. As many have underlined, the overall proposal contains a wide range of proposals. Some are of a technical nature. Some rules are repealed, rules expired. There are some reasonable proposals for changes, such as: in the case of the Right of Social Security. The Labour Party supports many of these, but we therefore oppose, as we have said, the proposals to lift the requirement to live in the population from three to five years old, to abolish the exemption for refugees in terms of living requirements, and 40 years of residence in order to achieve full rights in the rights of the people. The same applies to the tightening of the redundancy benefits for young people. But in order to prevent a very complicated voting, we have agreed in the committee that we are therefore voting against everything, since the proposals in any case have a majority in the Chamber. The only exception is the new provisions on care allowances, on which we are associated with the government parties and the Central Party. That is what we are voting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2299	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2316	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, lines are not allowed, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2323	I would like to thank the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Erlend Wiborg, Morten Stordalen, Hans Andreas Limi, Morten Wold, Per-Willy Amundsen and Solveig Horne for promoting a happy and pleasant thing like this – a little fresh breath among all the big and serious things that the Stortinget is dealing with. I would also like to thank the Committee on the swift and smooth examination of the proposal for a representative. It is a unanimous committee which today supports the proposal for a representative. I refer to the Committee's comments on the fact that most countries in the world have national Parliament adopted national anthems, as also pointed out in the Minister of Culture's reply to the Committee of 1 October. The Committee cannot see any particular good reason why this should not be the case in Norway. In that letter from the Minister for Culture, to the extent that the Minister discusses various issues related to an official recognition and decision that ‘Yes, we love this country’ in the form of decisions is established to be Norway’s national anthem. She states that she does not consider a formal decision to be necessary, but she does not reject the proposal either. Everyone agrees that in any case, ‘Yes, we love this country’ stands steadily through habit and popular commitment, but when the Stortingeet now adopts this proposal we have for treatment, it will be raised beyond any doubt that ‘Yes, we love this country’ is Norway’s official national anthem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2334	"Yes, we love this country" had an official strike from the first moment. Singing and melody were used publicly in connection with the marking of the 50th anniversary of the Constitution on 17 May 1864. ‘Yes, we love’ has, in fact, been our national song as it gained its pass-in and popular support from the 1860s. It is part of the cultural joint heritage and common story of origin of all national states in any form whatsoever. It has become through custom as official as it is possible to get a national song. But after 155 years of unproblematic use, the undisputed position of national anthem has also called on the attention of the Stortinge, or to be more precise, the family and cultural committee – a committee that wants the Stortinge to give the national anthem the status it already has in the people. When the committee points out that most people take for granted that ‘Yes, we love this country’, written by Bjørnstar Bjørnson and spoken by Rikard Nordraak, Norway’s official national song is more correct than they know. It is not easy to understand the position to be taken by the Committee on Culture on the opinion of the Storting on the national anthem. Should it be played more often, sung higher, and played more strongly? So you could let it all go without a comment. However, I would like to point out the comments made by the Minister for Culture in his comment on the proposal. You can reflect on what the Greatness's condition with the song after 155 years will say for the further course. Firstly, it is not known that long and consistent use has created a habit as strong as any statement from the Stortinget. Secondly, national anthem is made a political object. It recognises the right of Storting to falsify with a national symbol, and there is no guarantee as to which other proposals might come up later. In this way, the examples in the letters of the Council of State are quite thoughtful. The essence of this is that a custom-based national song that emerges from Norway, which is not a politician, is now being made a political object. The idea builds up during the idea that Norway is the state and not so much more. But Norway is the people, the families, the organizations and all those who on 17 May and other days have sung the national anthem without any thought as to whether it is now understood and recognised by politicians as official. I can trust the President that I have other agreements tonight that make sure that I'm safe to exchange and thus do not explain any voting, because it won't be easy to get the pedagogical point of going against the proposal either because it is and becomes a nullity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2347	For many it is a great day today. The national Parliament of the country shall finally recognise ‘Yes, we love this country’ as the official national song of Norway. The problematization of the case by the representative Michael Tetzschner was expected and not surprising. I'll come back to it later in my post. By chance, I realized that the national anthem has never been officially recognized by the Storting. I therefore supported – along with six of my party colleagues – the proposal that this should happen. The happy thing, as the rapporteur pointed out in his speech, is that there is a unanimous position from the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture that this should now be done. Some, such as the representative Tetzschner, have tried to problem the fact that the Stortinge acknowledges the national anthem by making proposals for updating what would be politically correct in our time. In my opinion, it is an attempt to create a problem that does not exist. It also establishes a unanimous Committee on Family Affairs and Culture in its comments, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee does not consider it natural that changes or adaptations to text and/or melody should be opened as this is to be regarded as a work of art and must be seen in the context of the time it has been written.’ Often we only sing the first verse of the national anthem. Sometimes also the second last and last. I promise in faith and honour that I will not try to perform from this pulpit, but pay attention to saying that they are all, most of the Nordics have a close and dear relationship with Bjørnstar Bjørnson's text and Rikard Nordraak's melody – whether it is performed on the national day, when the Nordics are at the top of the victory column in international sports competitions, or on other solemn occasions. ‘Yes, we love this country’ has been important to the Nordics through the emergence of the nation state, the Union resolution and in the heavy years of occupation. The song is part of our common cultural heritage and is a cultural collection building. That is why it is quite right that the Stortinget, like many other parliaments around the world, now recognises its national song by a simple decision today. I experience pride, love and real national feeling when I hear the national anthem. Today, the Stortinget – the country’s 169 leading populace – is invited to join in recognising a text and melody that has meant so much to so many for so long. It will secure and establish its place in the future, as a symbol that builds up under Norwegian values and Norwegian cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2367	I'm very happy with the national anthem -- I guess I take it for granted that it applies to everyone in the hall here. ‘Yes, we love this country’ has had a very special place with the Norwegian people since it was first performed 155 years ago. It has been seen as Norway’s national anthem since the late 1800s. It has served as a freedom symbol during the occupation period, and it is today a mandatory component on almost all solemn occasions in Norway. This position has been given ‘Yes, we love’ without ever being formally recognized as a national song by any political forum. Our national anthem has not been given to the people of the politicians. It has grown from the depths of the population and has almost claimed its position in the Norwegian peoples — yes, since Norway became an independent nation at all. That is why I think it is really both sad and unnecessary that this matter is the subject of political debate today. Indeed, the position of national anthem is an important reminder that politics is not everything and that everything is not politics. I am not among those who think that the most beautiful recognition can be obtained is a decision in the National Assembly. With all due respect for the Storting as the foremost instrument of the will of the people, there is something about the Norwegian people who still stand above the Storting. When we sing 'Yes, we love' every year at the end of the solemn opening of the Greatness, it is precisely Parliament that humbly bows down to the people. I would therefore argue that the decision we are making today is at best superfluous. The Storting takes a 155-year tradition for information. Because even though the representative of Moxnes had at some point been given a majority in the Chamber to recognise ‘International’ as Norway’s national song, the people would still, I think, sing ‘Yes, we love’, probably with even greater force. ‘Yes, we love’ symbolizes the Norwegian people’s soul, and it stands above the Stortinget, over the King and over some political decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2376	Let there be no doubt: I love this country. But as a conservative, I think it is important that we have something that is beyond politics. I believe it is a nobility for Norway as a nation that it is through tradition that we have found out what should be our national song – not by a political decision. I know we are living in a time when the most rewarding thing that can happen is either getting a political decision in the main hall or becoming a post on the state budget. So that's not what I think is most valuable. What I think is valuable is the norms that we have together in Norway, the values that we agree on are a basis for our nation, and that through this, through tradition, we have received a national song that no politician has decided to be our national song. It's from the people. I see it in the notes that you don't see it as natural to make changes to the text. But we know that in countries that have adopted what is their national song, there are discussions about how the text should be. It is also going to happen in Norway. I am not saying this because I do not trust those who have contributed to the comments, because I trust that they write what they mean in the comments. But in ten years, fifteen years, the discussion will come – a politically adopted national anthem can also change politically. Then we roam some of what we through our tradition have agreed to be the text of our national song. It should remain above policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2383	It doesn't seem to be a big discussion, and so far we didn't expect it. I record that there are three conservative right-wing representatives who are speaking against what we are going to adopt a little later this evening. The representative Heggelund says it is the strength of the song that it has not been adopted by the politicians, but has become a tradition through the people. It is true that this is the way it is, but it is not that the Storting is today invited to adopt the national anthem as such. We just recognize it. That's what's in the setting. For those who are afraid that there will be thoughts about changes in the text, this text is a miracle. Spiritual works are protected, as is this text. So, given it also the Right-Representatives say about the strong position of the song out in the people, I think it's unlikely that there will be strong discussions about its position in the future, although today we recognize it as the great work of art and the work of magic it is, and the great national song "Yes, we love" is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2390	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2407	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2414	I will have a little less pathos in this matter than my fellow representatives had in the previous case. It is an important matter we are debating. It's about anti-Muslim attitudes in Norwegian society. We see an increasing hatred for Muslims, and we in the Right, along with the rest of the Committee, believe that it is important to prevent discrimination on grounds of ethnicity and religion, and it needs to be given greater attention. We believe that the time has come for a separate action plan against Muslim hatred and are pleased that the Council of State on 16 September informed that she will draw up her own action plan to prevent racism and to prevent discrimination against Muslims. The tragic event in the Al-Noor mosque in Bærum this fall is a brutal reminder of the importance of combating this kind of hatred. Police reform has strengthened police preparedness and improved the competence of this type of crime. But it is not possible that the police will at all times have an overview of what is happening in closed web forums, and what is happening among lonely wolves in society. Several events have also shown us that it is important to have this kind of focus. We see online news, fake news and websites spewing out prejudices – hatred and myths are amplified in their own echo chambers. These attitudes are reproduced and disseminated in society, and it is quite difficult to stop. Today, the government has presented a new national action plan against racism and discrimination based on ethnicity and religion, but nevertheless we will now have our own against Islam. Very often it is exactly the same expressions and mechanisms that are involved, regardless of which group is now experiencing the harassment. There are prejudices, there is a lack of knowledge, false news and conspiracy thoughts that are the common denominator for this. Many of the measures to combat racism and discrimination are therefore the same: we need to have increased knowledge, more research, much more attitude work at school, in health care and in the police. This action plan coming will therefore be important for the fight against racism and discrimination in general, but also against Muslim hatred in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2429	Belonging to a country is a great value. Having good leaders is great for a people. We've just attended the Nobel Peace Prize, and then we see how proud people become of a leader or a person who gets such positive attention. Government leaders are role models for the people. Our government is a role model for such division or for bringing the people together. As it approaches Christmas, I want to draw attention to a matter that was on the Right's website a few weeks ago about Christmas celebration in Seljord. It was the most shared article on Resett, Document.no and Human Rights Service in the coming days. Telemarksavisa had to close her post from Facebook, and comment fields were also closed elsewhere. The type of events is not unique to this government. We've seen it before. We've seen state councils swimming in the Mediterranean. We've seen upcoming state councils dress up in T-shirts at national meetings. We've seen Facebook updates with the same call for equal parts. It's a shame to say that, but we have a government that doesn't bring the people together about important values. I have a friend who was born in another country. Now she's 40–45 years old, and a few years ago when the worst hotshot was on the agenda, when immigration policy was on the agenda, and both government members and anti-immigration people flooded online, she said to me: Kari, you know, for the first time in my life I feel that I'm not Norwegian. I feel different when I go into town. It is very good that the government now comes with an action plan. We're going to read it, and it's important that we get this in place. But the most important thing — and this is a call for all members of the government — is that the members of the government behave decently in the public space and provide a communication that is more cohesive than divisive. I am discussing the proposal of the Workers' Party together with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2444	The representative of Kari Henriksen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2449	SV promoted this proposal for a separate action plan on Islamophobia and Muslim hostility in June. Shortly after the attacks on the Al-Noor mosque in August, the government issued an opinion that they would draw up a national action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims. I don't know if the government would have been as eager about it if the attack hadn't taken place, but the attack was a wake-up call for all of us, and I'm very happy that the government reacted as it did, along with the way the rest of our big community reacted -- with horror and disgust. It's just a shame that that act of terror didn't have any fatal consequences. It was the day before the id, and we can only imagine what would have happened if it had been on the id day itself. Therefore, the fact that we in Norway need a separate action plan to protect Muslims better is beyond doubt. In 2018, in the Central Party, we promoted a proposal for a national action plan against racism and discrimination – a more general action plan that applied to more groups than Muslims. Although not the whole of our original proposal was adopted, I am proud that a unanimous increase then ended with the adoption of an action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. As the chairman of the committee pointed out, that action plan is being launched today, and it is very good that it is coming. It is also very good that the government will make its own plan against the Muslim community. I expect the measures to be numerous, binding and operational, and therefore those action plans will work. A society in which people are categorised, discriminated against, bullied, harassed and subjected to threats and hatred by just being who they are is totally unacceptable. Changing attitudes requires continuity and focus. It thrives on prejudices, false news and conspiracy theories on the web, last seen in the case of the Christmas celebration at Seljord school. These are inevitably passed on to other arenas in society, and they hit not least Muslims very hard. We know that studies and reports show negative attitudes and scepticism toward Muslims. The Report of the Holocaust Centre of 2017 shows that negative attitudes towards Muslims are widespread in the Norwegian community. One of the three in the population shows pronounced prejudices against that particular group. Other reports again show that ethnicity and religion are the most common basis for hateful expressions. In addition, in September, the police security service upgraded the level of threats from the far right, environments that we know – and bitterly experienced – have Muslims as a large part of their enemy image. This is worrying. Muslims are undoubtedly a very vulnerable group in our society, and developments have gone down rapidly. There is something we need to recognise and work actively to prevent and counteract, and it is urgent. That is why the Central Party is in favour of this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2466	It is important that we stand up for everyone's right to exercise our faith in peace, and that we take the fight for no one to be affected by discrimination based on religion, background or any other way. The report ‘Muslim hostile attitudes in Norway — a knowledge review’ by Minotenk showed that the defence and the struggle still have a long way to go. There we can read that almost 20 pst. would not have liked to have Muslims as neighbors or in the circle of friends. About half believe that Muslims themselves are the culprits of increased heat, and in fact there is one in ten who believe that harassment and even violence against Muslims can be justified, in the light of recent terrorist attacks. This is one of many reports that show how serious this is. Later, the HL-center delivered one, and not long ago, a Fafo report confirmed everything in this image. But it's a report that I think speaks extra, and it's a study from TNS Gallup back in 2016. It says 36 pst. Muslims in Norway seem to have become more difficult to be Muslims in Norway in the last ten years, i.e. they have gone wrong. I think that is extra alarming. We know what this can lead to – we know that too well in Norway. I am still shocked that there may be new events with right-wing external terror in this country – to target Muslims in particular, as it was in the Bærum. I would think that was no longer possible, but that is part of an international image with more and more attacks targeting just Muslims. Therefore, Muslims, anti-racists and those working on this have asked for an action plan for a long time, and therefore this proposal was promoted by SV before the summer – before the terrorist attack came, and before the government announced its action plan. I am very happy that the government has notified that plan, it was really time. We need a plan of our own, for this is a particular form of discrimination, based on what kind of phenomenon it is, but also to what extent. However, SV maintains its proposal that we have made because the plan needs to be good and correct. In particular, we refer to the plan against antisemitism as an important example, which we have tried to extract from what we are proposing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2479	Studies show that Muslim hostility and negative prejudices and attitudes to Muslims are a problem in Norway. In August this year, hatred against Muslims was further updated, in connection with the attack on the mosque Al-Noor Islamic Centre in Bærum. Earlier today, I have presented the Government's action plan against racism and discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity and religion. It is a broad action plan that also addresses challenges faced by Muslims in Norway. More vigorous measures are needed to combat Muslim hostility. We have to make people feel safe in the street, feel safe in their mosque. The government therefore decided in August this year to make its own action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims, and we are doing the work. I have invited you to a large meeting on the next Monday, December 16, where I have asked you to contribute to this action plan. The invitation went out wide, and I hope for a lot of good input. Then we're going to follow up on regional meetings in 2020. From the outset, together with the Minister of Knowledge and Integration, the Minister of Justice and Immigration and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I have had a meeting with the Muslim Dialogue Networks and the Islamic Council of Norway in September this year. On November 9, this year, I also attended a meeting in Bergen, where, among other things, I attended. several mosques from the West were represented and where the aim was to get input into both the government's action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims and a similar plan to that of the new City Council in Bergen. In the work on the Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination, which I presented today, we have received many insights into how to work against discrimination and hatred against Muslims. All the input we have already received from civil society has given us a solid basis for further work, and we will continue with good dialogue that we have established with many different environments. We will also focus on dialogue work, meeting places, new knowledge of dissemination and understanding of phenomena and increased competences among key actors. The voice of children and young people is also going to be important to us in this work. And of course, we're taking with us all the recordings from comments and suggestions in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2499	I think it's very good that there's an action plan like the one presented today, and I'm happy to read it, because I think it's good. Then I want to give praise to the State Council, Skei Grande, because she is one of the governments that stands by values – even outwardly. I think that's good. What's the challenge is that it cracks. I have a question related to the action plan that comes now. We know that hatred against religious minorities has many common features with hatred for people with sexual orientation who do not belong to the majority and with gender, and that radicalisation on both sides of the political scene is linked to this. So I wonder: does the Council of State think that this plan is sufficient in terms of funding and timing for when things are going to be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2506	Thanks for the nice words. Yes, it has been received quite well during the day by the organisations that have read it. We're not saying that we're done working on the plan, done making the goals we need in the future, because this is a field where we don't have that much research and competence. So we're going to start some research projects to get more facts on the table. Now several of the debaters have explained the various research projects we have had up to now, but there is still some disintegration of land in terms of the factors that trigger exactly what the representative is talking about, that the different scenarios associated with hatred against different groups are linked, both the hatred found against women, the hatred against Muslims, and the factors that trigger this also in action. We need to know more about this. I'm saying that we've now made a three-year plan, but it's going to develop further over the course of the three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2516	Governments replied a little about content and research, and it's important that we get new research going, and that we get good knowledge of what triggers these trends, if we can call it that. This is also happening internationally. Since I have not read the plan, I thought there is an opportunity to ask some questions about this today. I wonder when it comes to funding: is it going to come back to annual funding, or is there funding plans for the actions that can be launched now and that do not have to be waited for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2523	It varies a little bit. There are nine departments in there, and we have created a governance structure following all nine departments. Some of it, e.g. The'stop hat talk' campaign, some say that we should increase support, while also saying that we should now start with the hate-crime group that we have on Manglerud, to get it in the other police districts as well. We come back to the further budgets how we are going to build it up, but in the plan there is now a message to the Police Directorate that they are going to make a plan for how to build similar hate-crime groups in the other police districts as well. Then we have to follow up with money on the demands of the Police Directorate, in order to achieve the goals we have set in the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2528	I would also like to commend the government and the Minister that we have now received this action plan. I'm also happy to see it. I understood that there were at least 50 measures, and I know that this whole room wants to put in place good measures against the heat, both against Muslims and other groups. The Councils referred to the ‘Stop hat talk’ campaign. One of the greatest challenges we have is how this is spread in social media, and also how some alternative media build up under it. There are not so many measures that politicians can do, but I am very eager that we find some however, and I tick the minister too. What can we do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2535	That's exactly why we want a freedom of speech commission in Norway. Where does the boundary between facilitating the public, good debate, where one should also be able to have tough roofs and really disagree, but nevertheless give room for people not to shade away from the debate, and for people not to feel pressured out of the public change of words? Just digitisation is one of the reasons why I think it's now the right time to have a new freedom of speech commission. It doesn't have to look at the law we have on the Constitutional Law, which I believe is good, and which stands today, but can look at the tools we need to maintain the propriety of the public conversation, and what limits we're going to make to make sure that everyone dares to participate in the same line in the public conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2542	I would like to repeat that we in SV are very happy that the plan is finally coming. We look forward to that work, and that it will be shared with us as we go. I want to ask the Council of State what she thinks is important in the work that the ministry and several other departments are now going to do with such an action plan. Among those who work on this, the professional expert, the plan of antisemitism is presented as a very good starting point and as an inspiration. What might separate that plan from other action plans is a couple of things. It has quite concrete and measurable new measures, which are not very many, but which are prioritised. They're also funded. Will the Council of State think similarly in its work on this action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2551	Yeah, let's try it. The size has underlined it as an ideal, and we're going to try to stretch towards it. We need more forums for meetings between the Muslim faith and the Norwegian society. Today, we have very weak structures that represent the Muslim communities, and that has weakened the public conversation, the public explanation and understanding of each other. I think that's important. I hope we also have good dialogue with the organisations on this page. I'm very concerned that we should also hear what Muslim youth, who stands in this in his everyday life, experiences, and what we can do to increase our understanding between us, which we need not to make scares of each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2558	Thank you to the Council of State for a good answer, which I agree with. The Jewish road guides can also be used as a good example of exactly those types of meetings between the minority population and the majority of the population through schools, for example. I have also recorded that the Muslim religious communities have shown it as a possible model. I also have to ask about conspiracy theories, as the chairman of the committee also said. There may be something special about anti-Muslim attitudes. Unfortunately, they are around a conspiracy theory that Muslims should take over the West, Europe and Norway. Then I also have to ask if it will be reflected in the plan, and what does the Council of State think that even those in power in this government use terms such as ‘snikislamization’? Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2565	Yeah, I think that's problematic. That's why both I and the Prime Minister were very clear, when this was up, that these were words that we take a great distance from. To the first representative said, I think what Bergen is doing is very positive. They work with us on a local plan, where we can hold hearings together to have dialogue with more people. Conspiracy theories are becoming as big a security challenge as the systems that are being built by different terrorist organisations. The way to build online dialogue between people with extreme attitudes to this and to give energy to each other’s conspiracy theories and allow them to spread without stopping is one of the major safety challenges for Norway as a nation. It is also very scary that the web has helped to raise conspiracy theories in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2574	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2593	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who may sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2600	It has been particularly important to be the rapporteur on this very matter of two proposals for representatives to strengthen the LHBTI policy. The proposals consist of a number of request decisions, so I'm not going to go into all of them now. But that thing is about, has engaged many, and it has engaged strongly, for the defense of the right to love whomever you want and who you are, is fortunately strong among all, most of all in our country. When I myself came out of the famous closet quite so long ago, I was optimistic. I felt that my right to be who I am, just got stronger, that I would once be able to go hand in hand with my girlfriend without being afraid, that I would gradually be able to be accepted for who I am, also in the congregation I spent quite a lot of my youth in. But it is becoming increasingly evident, both internationally and in Norway, that there is a counter-reaction going on. On the same day as the Pride parade here in Oslo, a man was struck down because he was sloppy, right outside the Storting. At home in Eastfold, right-wing extremes have organized themselves and grown on a message of homohat while monitoring members of biased organisations. The FRI and Skeiv Youth Association report that they need to spend more and more time and resources responding to hateful messages and disinformation. Not least, what I would call comprehensive, gross, organized social control and gliding in some religious communities – so-called homotherapy, conversion therapy or reorientation therapy. But what we know – and the whole committee also agrees, fortunately – is that this is not therapy, that science is quite clear that you can't change anyone's sexual orientation, and that, on the contrary, it's very, very harmful. Research shows, among other things: the risk of suicidal ideation and attempted suicide is dramatically increased for those who have been subjected to such an infringement, and it also takes note of the Committee as a whole. So, as the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on this matter. We have had a hearing with many organisations inside, and that was probably the strongest consultation at least I have participated in this period. That is why, on behalf of the entire committee, I would also like to thank those who came to this hearing and who have otherwise engaged in the matter, those who have stood up for love and revealed abuse, and not least those who have told their stories – thank you very much to you. You should know that you are about to change Norway. It has been a long time to talk about conversion therapy, but it was only when you stood up that the seriousness was really revealed – that all of Norway really understood what is happening in closed rooms around the country. It also seems that it can lead to action. I am pleased that almost all parties in the committee are supporting an investigation into the ban on conversion therapy. This is an important first step – thanks to those of you who have told their stories. As rapporteur, I also need clarification. Representatives from the government parties, such as Grunde Almeland and Kristin Örmen Johnsen, have been quite clear to us – happy to say – that this should be an investigation for the purpose of banning conversion therapy, but it has not wanted the Council of State, i.e. Minister Skei Grande, to respond to whether votes – or whether the investigation should lead to nothing, for everything we know. So, for the sake of the committee, the Storting and the matter, it is important that it be clarified in this debate on the investigation, as the governing parties in the Stortinget say, should lead to a ban. I would ask the Council of State to respond to that in its article. Then I can add – and then I speak on behalf of SV from now on – that it is essential. Only one investigation leads us nowhere. Freedom of faith, which some hide behind in this matter, does not excuse the violation of fundamental human rights, such as the right to be themselves and freedom from mental violence. Therefore, it is also incomprehensible that the Storting cannot adopt it today, in the same way that you do in many other cases, and send a strong signal to those who have stood up and told their stories, that we see you, we believe in you, and we do something about it. I'm addressing the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2617	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2622	For us in the Workers' Party, the fight for the rights and living conditions of LHBTI people is a very central part of the equality and therefore the struggle for freedom. Although we have formally gone beyond most other countries in Norway, we still have major unsolved challenges. LHBTI people continue to encounter both formal and informal discrimination in Norway. People who violate the norm of gender identity and sexuality experience a violation of their rights, and they often experience worse living conditions than others. The ten proposals that the Labour Party has put forward today are all proposals aimed at improving the living conditions and rights of LHBTI people. ILGA’s ‘Rainbow Map&Index’ for 2019 has a third consecutive year in Norway. We've gone from having a second place to now being in the fifth place. There's several reasons for that. Lack of protection against early irreversible medical interventions for children born inter-sex is one factor. Lack of protection against hate crime is another. In the hate crime paragraph of the penal code, gender is not included, despite the fact that the Storting has asked the government to implement this. Why doesn't this get into place? The Council of States must answer that today. In addition, in Norway, there are relatively high and serious figures on the extent of hate crime, and the resources available to the police for this purpose today are not in line with the need. A third factor is that we need to strengthen the competence of gender dysphoria in the regional health professions, and we need to ensure that this group of people receives an equivalent treatment provision. ‘Rainbow Map&Index’ takes into account only formal laws and rules, things that politicians can adopt and easily do. But we know that we also have great challenges when it comes to attitudes in the population. We know from surveys that Norway is also coming out worse than comparable Scandinavian countries. We need to strengthen the LHBTI policy, and one of the most important things we have to do is to recognise and strengthen the most important work done to improve people's attitudes, to improve the everyday lives of LHBTI people. The work is done by the organisations. That work is done by volunteers in the FRI, the Skeiv World, Skeiv Jugenddom, Salam, PKI, etc. They need more money to do more of their important work. They're working counterwind. As the rapporteur said, in the context of the proposals we are discussing today, we have seen a steady flow of propaganda, misinformation and the driest accusations that trustees and these organisations are meeting. It tells us something about what we all have to show that we're standing up to. The last factor to be identified as missing in Norway is the prohibition of conversion therapy. Trying to be changed, converted, because you have the gender identity or the orientation you have, is a gross violation of human rights. It's harmful, it destroys, and it takes life. I want to thank those who have been so tough and stood up with their stories. Many of them are here today. I want to say thank you to them. Their courage means enormously to the many who are going to come after us and hopefully not to experience this. Their stories are also the example of why a ban is absolutely necessary. There is a prohibitionist attitude, it sets a standard for a decent society, and of course it also has practical consequences for those who are currently undergoing conversion therapy. At the same time, we say clearly to those who are exposed to it, that this is not okay, you have to say from, this is going to require a response. We have had quite a nice debate in recent months, first with a Prime Minister who thought that a ban is not necessary, then a Christian People's Party that is against a ban, and now a government – minus the Christian People's Party – that will investigate, but is not quite clear about whether it should lead to a ban. I hope we can also clarify this today. Conversion therapy shall be prohibited, and the government shall be entrusted with the task of investigating it, designing it and presenting it to the Stortinget. That's just how we make every other law. There is no reason not to say yes to a ban today. It is a clear and vital signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2645	The right to be yourself and to love whomever you want is a fundamental human right. In countries near us, we see that this court is being questioned, actually demonstrated against, and gay, lesbian and transhumance are being threatened. In some countries, being biased means being persecuted, imprisoned, and tortured. Even I saw my first antihomomarch in Krakow, Poland a year ago. It was quite daunting to see a tactful, marching, militant and well-organized group that carried banners against gay, lesbian and transhumance. The legislative proposals that we are discussing today address biased policies and work against hate crime, as well as competence in the field of sexuality in schools, health services and the police. The matter that has received the most attention is conversion therapy, and it is thanks to VGTV, I guess I get to say, that has put this matter on the agenda. Conversion therapy, Conventional therapy, homotherapy or sexual reorientation aim to change behaviour – specifically to change sexual orientation. The only sure thing we know is that conversion therapy contributes to, is depression, shame and, in the worst case, suicide. It is a practice that is likely to break and break with several different laws – ranging from the Discrimination Act to the Health Personnel Act. For me, conversion therapy is all about mental abuse. There are abuses by those in power in environments where shame and control are prominent. It is an assault that primarily affects young people at a time when finding yourself – who are you – is difficult enough. The right fully agrees with the need for an investigation into the legal ban on conversion therapy. I would like to commend the Minister of Culture for ordering an investigation to find out whether such practices are already contrary to the law in force. Governments have promised to return to Stortinget with a necessary legislative change if existing legislation does not already prevent conversion therapy. For the right, this is good news. In some religious groups or in some environments, there is opposition to a law ban. One is anxious that there should be restrictions on what a religious community and individual people should be allowed to exercise, believe and believe. Freedom of faith is strong in Norway, which belongs to democracy. At the same time, I would like to stress that in 2017, the Church of England decided to support a ban on conversion therapy in the United Kingdom. They believe it does not belong in a modern society — it is unethical and harmful, it is stated in the opinion. Strengthening work against hate crime is an important task. Hateful statements are seen especially in social media, rather hidden behind false profiles, where there is an individual or group behind whom we do not know who is. They're also in the schoolyard, out in town or in the sports arena. The government has asked the government to make proposals to extend the provisions of the penal code on hateful expressions, hate crime and discrimination, so that they also include discrimination because of a person’s gender or gender identity. I am informed that the last hearing opinion on the matter came in ours. A centre of excellence against hate crime is also to be established at Manglerud. Unfortunately, I am not sure if a law order will help us all the way to the goal. When a practice takes place in closed environments, it is our common responsibility to say from when we hear about things that are not good, or that in the future will be contrary to the law. It's the responsibility of religious leaders. It's the responsibility of decision-makers. It's the teacher's responsibility. It's yours and my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2664	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Freddy André, for a good report, and the committee chairman. This is a very important topic, and I am very happy that we have the debate. A few weeks ago, I was at The Nairobi Summit in Kenya. There were LHBTI rights among the remaining themes. One of the things that maybe made the strongest impression on me was a prelude to the film Art to Sin. It's about the first open gay person from Sudan, a country where you can actually get the death penalty for being gay. It again shows that the challenges are great in terms of attitudes, of course also internationally – we also saw this earlier in the debate on aid for example. Tanzania, for which I have taken the initiative. But I very much agree that even though the major challenges internationally are unimaginable, we also have challenges in this country. This year we have received several painful reminders that the fight against discrimination has a long way to go, including in Norway – in the countryside as in cities. When the rainbow flag was hoisted in a Greenlandian townyard, some came and tore it down while making very homophobic calls. And just a few days earlier, the news reported that the apartment of a lesbian couple in Sandnes had been ramponed. This is unsustainable. It is simply unbelievable that something like this can happen, and at least when the calendar shows up in 2019. In Norway, everyone must feel safe in their neighbourhood and in their neighbourhood, and a self-appointed moral policy, I would just like to stress that the Progress Party seems to be badly unwanted. The Pride events and the way they are organised around the country highlight the importance of standing up for those values and going ahead with good examples. We have to stand together to solve these societal challenges, and it is important to stand up for free love – it is not just in the countryside that it faces resistance, but also around our city councils – and we have to do that nationally and internationally. If we're going to do that, we have to make sure that we're going to move towards a more inclusive society. I think at least it was a very good sign when the police this year for the first time made a historical and very important public apology for the way they had treated gay people in Norway. In my home town of Bergen, the police followed up on the Pride parade on the occasion of the Rainbow Days. I thought that was a very important and strong signal. The proposals that we are considering today have been examined by a number of speakers here today, and they have been properly reviewed by the government parties in the vote. Nevertheless, it is very important for me to stress that homophilia is by no means a disease. You can't convert anyone away from their sexual orientation. I am very pleased that VG has focused on this, and I will again from this pulpit give a great deal of thanks to the people who have shared their history with us. We've seen pictures of what might remind us of the torture of children. It is incomprehensible that children can be subjected to this. Such treatment of people is simply not at stake; it is simply psychological abuse that harms other people, sometimes with fatal consequences. I would like to commend the State Council of Trine Skei Grande for having taken an initiative in its response to the Committee to launch an investigation into this matter. For the Progress Party, it is clear that this is what is right, as the consultation also made clear. Once again, I just want to thank all those who have stood up with their story.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2681	The centre party believes equality and equivalency is an important prerequisite for everyone to have a decent life regardless of gender, gender identity, outlook on life, sexual orientation or cultural and linguistic background. LHBTI groups and women and men born in the wrong body have won important battles in the past decades. Nevertheless, many still experience discrimination and invisibility in everyday life and society, and they suffer in other ways because they themselves or others do not accept who they are or who they love. For this reason, it is an important public task for the Centre to contribute to the creation of a more tolerant and inclusive society in this area. The Greens and the Workers' Party also want this, with its comprehensive proposals that we are considering today. I want to thank them for that. The centre party supports the intention of the Greens' proposals, but we will not vote for everyone, because the work is already in progress, they are a little too detailed for us, and they override the municipalities. With regard to the Workers' Party's proposal to ban sex-normalising cosmetic interventions before the child himself is able to consent, we agree with the Minister of Health in his assessment not to support it. Nor does the Centre support the proposal to investigate a third gender category or the proposals that have budgetary implications, but we support many of the other proposals of the Workers' Party, such as increasing the competence of regional trade unions on gender dysphoria and strengthening the work with Rosa's competences in different social arenas. We also want to ensure good conditions for both the Slide archive and the magazine Blink forward. Yes, the Central Party supports the proposal for a ban on conversion therapy. Conversion therapy is a serious form of negative social control. This premises that sexual orientation and gender identity are both things that can and should change. It's a premise from which the Center Party takes a great distance. Homophili is no disease, and we believe that you don't have to treat or go to therapy for something that's not sick. We also believe that the practice of conversion therapy in different ways harms those who are exposed to it and really cannot be supported. It's a violation of human rights. Many of the examples of harmful conversion therapy include: has been present in the VGTV documentary series, it is actually allowed to operate today. We think that's wrong in the Center Party. But in several religious environments, there is a different view of homophilis and LHBTI people and how they will live their lives, than both the Center Party and the large majority in this country have. For us in the Center Party, it's important that there's both law and space in our society to have that view and express itself about it. Freedom of faith and freedom of expression are the freedoms we hold strongly, but we are concerned that from now on it should not be allowed to act on the same view in a way that violates or harms others. I am sure that a ban on conversion therapy will make sure that there will be fewer stories and lower numbers of statistics on homosexuals and other LHBTI people in religious environments who have mental problems, are outlawed, or are trying to kill themselves, or even worse – succeed in doing so. As a society, we have a duty to do what we can to end these suicides or suicide attempts and in all the cases of mental problems and offensive and harmful experiences that homosexuals and LHBTI people experience because of conversion therapy. The prohibition is the strongest signal we can send to those who actively conduct harmful conversion therapy, that they must stop it. Then it probably doesn't just work out if we're going to have a ban. In any case, investigations are always carried out when the Stortinge adopts a prohibition. Of course, it will be most necessary to find the right boundaries when designing the legal text. We in the Center Party have come to realize that in many religious environments, or at least some, there are fears that a ban will affect the conduct of mental health. I wonder a little bit about that fear, because it can be understood as proof that conversion therapy is actually carried out under mental care, but I believe that it is fine to draw up a clear line between what can and can not be harmful and offensive to people who more or less voluntarily want to get advice and conversations about their lay. I also believe that the Christian People's Party should have believed in that – the party that does not even support an investigation of such a ban. It is not surprising that large parts of the country's population react. But at least three of the government parties say they're now working on a ban, and that hopefully means we're going to end up with the desired and necessary ban. For all those who have stood up in this case, for all those who are affected, and for all those who have previously been affected by this case, I hope so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2698	A society in which each person experiences freedom requires that everyone has the ability to have power over his or her own life, regardless of sex, faith, view of life, situation and background. Everyone should be able to grow up and be recognized for who they are, without fear of condemnation and hatred, even if you are gay, bee, trans, intersex, pan or how you want to identify yourself. If we are to achieve this, we need an active policy to ensure the rights of the skew. Only then can we improve living conditions and make sure that everyone really has equal opportunities to live a free, good and full life. I want to start by thanking the opposition for helping put LHBTI issues on the agenda, including for Stortinget, in this round. It's important, especially for a group that many people have a little bit too easily to forget. In addition, I would like to thank all those who have stood up with strong stories in this matter. It's important. But I also want to thank all the everyday heroes who stand up with their stories, whether it's in the classroom or for families or for friends, because it also helps to change attitudes in society, which we need. For the left, it's clear that we still have many steps left to go. It also shows the numbers and statistics we've been given, just in the last few years. ‘Homo’ is still among the most common shellfish words in Norwegian schoolyards, and sloppy young people are more vulnerable to bullying, depression, anxiety, drug problems and suicide than other young people. Everyone deserves to be able to participate in society on equal terms, and then we need to ensure an open, inclusive society, no matter what sexual orientation, gender or gender identity you have. On 8 November last year, I conducted an interpellation in this room after having received several enquiries from young disks who have been spit on, turned and assaulted on the street. That we have to do more to combat hate crime is not least something that ILGA has also pointed out several times in its annual rainbow raids, because hate crime not only affects the victim of the criminal act, but it creates uncertainty for all people who belong to the group. It's a form of crime that hits you for who you are, and that sends a signal to everyone who belongs to a minority, that who you are, makes you a potential victim. Hat crime motivated by the victim's sexual orientation is experienced by many as an attack on all skews. This weakens the premise that absolutely all citizens should feel safe here at home in Norway. After the police here in Oslo got a dedicated hate-crime group, we have seen clear improvements, both by the fact that more people dare to report and feel trust in the police, and also in how the police act and deal with these matters. The fact that today we have an action plan where we're actually saying that we're now starting to set up a national competence center makes me incredibly happy, because it's also a concrete follow-up to exactly what I was standing here a little over a year ago and talked so much about that we needed. So to the thing that's got the most attention in the media, that's the homotherapy proposal. I would like to start by saying that the very concept of ‘homotherapy’ is not something I am happy about, because it is a concept that actively excludes large parts of those who are also covered by this practice, namely trans-persons. Let me be clear: the left is for a ban. It has been adopted on the left, precisely because we know that this practice is harmful. Any treatment or practice aimed at changing a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity, including practices or treatment aimed at changing the individual’s patterns of action or expression, gender expression or eliminating or reducing the attractiveness of persons of the same sex, should not take place. Our mission now is to find a good way to do this, which hits right, just for the situation we're in here at home. There are several countries that have imposed bans, but the prohibitions in these countries are very different. We need to find a design based on the experiences that countries we can compare with have done. I am glad that the Council of State went out and was so clear on what the government will actually do. The work on the investigation for the purpose of prohibition is under way. It's an important job. I am looking forward to it being done properly, and that it will end up in concrete proposals that we can decide on here at Stortinget. So I'll end by saying that no one here is asking ourselves to believe that a ban is the solution to all the challenges. We'll do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2717	The proposals we are debating here today contain very many and serious issues affecting particularly vulnerable groups. There are many points in these proposals that I would like to have had time to address individually and thoroughly, but due to the recent special attention around just one point, the proposal to ban so-called conversion therapy, I choose to use my few minutes on just this. First of all, let it be clear that the Christian People's Party is taking a great distance from all the forced, inquisitive or aggressive attempts to change human orientation. It's wrong. It's not going to happen. We also want to work for it not to happen, because everyone has the right to be who they are. We can ban things that we don't like. But should we? There are some emotional, overwhelming reasons to ban conversion therapy, but there are also some weighty, factual reasons not to ban it. When the Christian People's Party chooses not to go for a ban, it is primarily about the fact that the cross-border actions we have seen in the VGTV documentant are already banned and regulated in a number of laws. As of today, no one acknowledges that they are involved in this type of therapy, so it will not be a targeted instrument either. On the contrary, we as society and we as legislators think that yes, now we've taken hold of this, but in reality we haven't done anything at all. By imposing a ban on conversion therapy, we are also at risk of weakening some values that are to be regarded as fundamental pillars of our democratic society, namely freedom of belief and freedom of expression. If the state is to enter into and regulate the mental health and benevolence of religious communities by limiting what is allowed to talk about or not, what can be pleaded for, it will mean a weakening of the individual's freedom of belief and expression. One challenge is that when people without knowledge of the religious and life-viewing communities get into an outside matter, they forget that both mental - health care and intercession are enormous values in many people's lives. In this debate, several have suggested that they would like to ban both intercession and mental health, and that they would prefer to go in and regulate what is being preached. Yes, it has stumbled so heavily into valuable terms that those who want to ban do not know what they are forbidding. I believe that we, as politicians far on the way, share the same intention in this matter. We will prevent people from being subjected to forced attempts to change their orientation. We want to protect these people from harmful power abuses we've been told about in strong and courageous stories lately. We want a society of freedom and diversity. But in desperation and the desire for quick solutions one can risk achieving the opposite, a narrower society in which democratic rights are weakened. Yes, because we have to assume that in a society where freedom of belief and expression is impaired, the minority's condition is not very good either. There are no easy solutions here. If we are to prevent attempts at sexual reorientation under coercive or strong social control, we need to look at how to better enforce existing laws. We need to ensure more transparency and work against environments where there is too much personal conversation. It's about raising the awareness of leaders and possible imbalances in power in conversational situations, and the adult seeking help is always sitting in the driver's seat in his own process. This believes the Christian People's Party is the best and most sustainable way to prevent and prevent people from being subjected to forced, aggressive and outreach attempts to change their orientation. That's not all that can be regulated specifically by law, and even if we're upset about wrong and want to ban things that we don't like, we have to take time to ask ourselves, should we?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2736	The debate on conversion therapy, or homotherapy, has aroused strong feelings among many Nordics and has contributed to a heated national debate on the need to strengthen gender and sexual diversity in Norway. Although in many ways we have gone a long way in Norway in balancing social differences, the norms on sex and sexuality are still narrow. Norms create minorities and minorities are particularly subjected to repression. Most lesbians, gays and biphiles experience good health, but the proportion with poorer mental health is significantly greater in them than among heterophiles. It should not be the case in Norway in 2019 that one’s sexual orientation is an indicator of one’s mental health. Reports show that children and young people who violate gender and sexuality norms are particularly vulnerable during growth. They are particularly exposed to mental ill health and suicide attempts. Many young people today experience pressure and alienation because of their sexual identity. We still do not have enough knowledge of mental health and living conditions for young transparencies, non-binary and persons with sexual incontinence in Norway. If we are to reduce the challenges for such groups, it is important in fact to address them. In an equal society, all can openly live out their identity, their love, their sexuality and their sexual expressions. We are therefore pleased to support the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV, which will contribute to this. But even with this, there's still a piece left. For this reason, the Greens will take up another eight proposals to strengthen biased policies in Norway and to combat discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. Nordics who identify themselves in gender, relations and sexuality categories that violate so-called heteronormativeity are not sufficiently recognised or met today. Therefore, we believe that a commitment to LHBT-tematics in curricula and educational courses, and the introduction of a third legal gender category, can help to make fewer people feel stigmatised, marginalised and unsafe. As it is today, homosexuals, but not transgenders, have criminal protection if they are subjected to discrimination, hateful expressions or other hate crime, including violence. The government has also created uncertainty as to whether the legal protection of transhumance should be strengthened, through what they write in the year’s draft state budget. The government parties and the Stortinget now have the opportunity to clean up by voting in order to ask the government to draw up these necessary proposals for legislative changes that strengthen trans-national legal protection in criminal law. Both Swedish and Norwegian research suggests that very many trans-persons face major health challenges and that as many as one in four have tried to kill themselves. Humans shall not be discriminated against on the basis of sexual practices between consenting adults which do not exceed the limits of others. In 2013, a separate anti-discrimination law was adopted in all areas of society for sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. This law was incorporated into today's equality and discrimination law in 2018, and it is stated in the preparation of the law that neither BDSM nor fetishism are covered by the protection of discrimination. We are therefore proposing that gender equality, BDSM and fetishism should be incorporated into the Equality and Discrimination Act. But I am afraid that the Stortinget today does nothing to strengthen the gender and sexuality diversity in Norway, not even a ban on conversion therapy – even if it is ongoing in Norway today, although there is a broad consensus that it is undesirable and dangerous, and even if it is associated with a higher risk of depression, suicidal ideation and attempted suicide. The victims of homotherapy do not have time to wait for a long investigation and any legislative changes, as the government parties propose. Homotherapy must be prohibited as soon as possible. This is a question of conscience that each of us has to decide. I therefore hope that everyone in this room today is in line with their own conscience, despite the government and forbid conversion therapy. And with that, I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2756	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2761	We live in a society where there are still strict standards that restrict human freedom. We've gone in the right direction thanks to many decades of struggle, but we don't yet have a society where everyone is free to live out their whole life. Work against sexual harassment, against violence, against hatred and against prejudices is crucial to achieving this goal. We have a great job to do for increased knowledge of both gender and gender identity in the population. Red supports the proposals on multi-disciplinary knowledge raising, from health care to school, asylum recipients and authorities. We are increasing support both for LHBTI organisations and for Rosa's competence in our draft budget, and we are in favour of proposals that are being promoted in the Stortinget on similar issues here today. It is now over 40 years since homophilia was removed as a psychiatric diagnosis in Norway, but unfortunately this view of homosexuals, lesbians and other skeletons lives on in some environments. So-called conversion therapy is about pushing people to change sexual orientation into heterophilics. We've got stories that show that this is little more than a psychological violation of the right of people to determine their own bodies and their own lives. Red will vote in today's grand meeting to ban conversion therapy. No one should be subjected to discrimination, harassment or violence because of breaking existing standards for sex and sexuality. Despite the progress we've seen in the rights struggle, people who don't follow the traditional gender role pattern face prejudice. It makes someone hide their sexuality or lay in fear of being expelled, and it's a big health problem for those who experience this. We know that school and working life are important venues for disseminating information and knowledge, so that everyone can live safely and openly regardless of sexuality and gender expression. Then there are also some refugees to Norway from countries where homosexuality is still punishable. Many who seek asylum on the basis of sexual orientation etc. are rejected by the authorities. There is a need for increased competence in sexuality at UDI and UNE in interviewing refugees applying for a stay in Norway on that basis. Unfortunately, we see some setbacks for the fight for rights. A couple of weeks before the year's Pride was arranged, a lesbian couple in Sandnes were put to work. In several cities Nazis march in the streets with slogans against minorities and against what they call the homolobby. The hatred and violence spread by these groups is a serious problem. When people get scared and afraid that they don't belong, we have to ring them and say clearly. Then the big community must mobilize in the streets and everywhere else against those who spread hatred against different minorities in our society. The minorities need us to stand up and fight back against the hatred and violence that these groups stand for. We need to continue the fight for a society where everyone feels safe, and where everyone is actually safe, regardless of gender, orientation, gender, skin color or disability. Historically, both the labour movement and the women’s movement have been important — and are important — liberation movements that have deliberately fought for both common well-being and a society based on gender equality. It has given most of us more freedom over their own lives, with shorter working days, the right to leave and the opportunity to live from their own work. The freedom to determine their own lives has also given greater room for the gay liberation struggle. Skating people organized themselves, demanding justice and creating change. So those who have gone ahead have changed Norway in the right direction. Our history shows that it is useful to stand together, and it is useful to fight for improvements, for freedom and for rights for all, but we must never make progress for given. There are people who want to reverse the progress. The struggle must continue until all people can live a full and free life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2778	There are many freedom struggles that are important to fight. The struggle to be who you are, and to love who you want – to have a society that is so diverse that we give room for it – is an important freedom fight to fight, and it gives us a better society. The government has a lot of attention on the rights of non-residents, both in Norway and internationally. Initially, I would like to refer to my two letters to Stortinget, sent on 16 September and 19 November. We have great challenges in terms of the part of our population that we can characterize as skews. Hat crime was one of the first things I said it was important to get hold of. One of the first big steps we're taking is that we're now saying we're going to have expertise in the police throughout the country in combating hate crime. We're going to fight for tolerance in all areas. Suffering if we see a lot of setbacks – something we've been used to – I can assure the President that when the rainbow flag was demolished on Greenland, a few quarters away from me, it was hoisted in my backyard. I was out to check at 0:00. 00.30 a.m., it's still hanging there. There are many aspects we need to work on if we are to succeed in this field. Norway shall take the lead internationally in promoting sexual rights. In spring 2019, Norway hosted the IDAHOT + Forum in Oslo. At the Forum, Norway took the initiative of a political declaration confirming its political will to promote the rights of LHBTIQ people in Europe. The declaration has now been endorsed by 22 countries in Europe. Norway is at the forefront of efforts to strengthen the rights and living conditions of skews, but ILGA's annual rainbow map shows that if we have come a long way, there is still one way to go to reach the top position, and it is a challenge that we have addressed. Norway has elevated its rights in the United Nations. In Norway's contributions to the UN Women's Commission, we highlighted the work on the informal LHBTI network of UN countries. In the autumn, Norway has actively contributed to the negotiations to establish a new non-discrimination committee in the Council of Europe, and we expect this to have an impact on the promotion of the rights of skeptics at European level. We've come to a new knowledge of skeletons. It includes knowledge about the living conditions of groups that we don't know much about. This applies, for example: skews with a migrant background, persons with a variation in the physical development of the sex, the skews with disabilities and the skews in relation to child protection. Through this knowledge, we know that being biased, as well as belonging to another minority group, causes people to be subjected to multiple forms of discrimination and increased marginalisation. Therefore, in 2020, we want to get a new living conditions survey that can tell us how lesbians, gays, biphilis, transsexuals and inter-sexuals are doing in Norway. New knowledge enables us to assess the impact of our policies and to reinvigorate them when necessary. Through new knowledge, we have a better starting point for finding solutions and measures that can be involved and meet challenges such as televised meetings in Norway today. In the debate on a strengthened LBHTIQ policy, there has been a clear signal that there is a need for concerted action in this area. We will see how we can follow up on the work in the future, as we now evaluate the action plan that has been in place from 2017 to 2020. To achieve this, we need to have a good knowledge status and an overview of the remaining challenges. We need to have some clear recommendations on how to solve this. Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in. The right to love whomever you want is strong in Norway, and we shall be proud of that. But there are still major challenges to solving, and there is a high level of work on the government's agenda. Now I tried to cut my post in order to get the opportunity to answer all the questions I have received, but I expect that I might also get some of them in the questionnaire, so I get the answer in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2800	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2805	There is no doubt that the Minister for Gender Equality herself and the party from which she comes is quite near when it comes to LHBT in politics – the Council of State must have it. On the other hand, it's not that easy to be a minister of equality in the windiest government we've ever had. It also shows today's debate. We have ten concrete, necessary proposals to strengthen the living conditions and rights of LHBT people. Not one of the proposals supports the right parties. The proposal that has been most debated is the proposal for conversion therapy. There we are in a somewhat strange situation: the Prime Minister has said that she does not see a ban as necessary, the Christian People's Party does not even want an investigation, while the rest of the government parties now say that one should investigate it. So representatives of the Right and the Left guarantee that there will be a ban, but can the Council of State clarify how long you're going to investigate it, and what you're going to put forward after you figure it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2814	I will honestly admit that when we got the first questions from VGTV about this, I thought we had a stronger law than we have found. I believe that we have to go through the law to see how we are going to manage to get a ban in this area. I imagine we'll be able to do that in the next year. My goal is to be able to pass a law decision on behalf of the Stortinget in the spring of 2021. It's an ambitious plan, because this is a law that's demanding. I hope we can lean on the other Western democracies that we look like that have managed to create good frames in the law on this. It is not that we govern by request decisions in this country, this country is governed by law. And then I'm going to follow all the instructions Stortinget has given me for how we work with law. So I hope that in the spring of 2021 the representatives of Stortinget have a bill in front of them on how we can use the law to prevent this kind of treatment of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2825	The country is not governed by a request decision, but it is in fact the Stortinge which adopts laws. All laws are made that way when they come from Stortinget. The size says we're going to have a law for it or against it, and then it's up to the government to figure it out, find the boundary rises and come up with the legal text. So there's really no reason not to say clearly here today that we're going to have a ban. I read the Council of State as if she wanted a ban, but I get a little insecure when she says at the end of her article that you should go through the law to see how the law can stop this. A law ban is important for a number of reasons, not only the practical consequences of conversion therapy, that is, the reaction, it is also important normative, to say what kind of standards we have in Norwegian society; it is an important signal. Why can't we, if we agree that we're going to have a ban, just adopt it today, and then those who have stood up, all those who are concerned about this, get the security that the Norwegian Great Britain is actually going to be converting therapy to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2834	Because I'm saying it's coming. I can say that I have gone through all the years the red-greens put in government, and I was able to find once where an opposition party voted for a request decision, sail if you agreed with the intentions very many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2841	It will be as the Green Party representative said in this Chamber today: after all that has been said, done, intended and pointed out, nothing will be done. One thing is to say something, something else is to do something. I cannot quite confirm that the investigation initiated by the government ends in a ban. Can the Minister say that it will end up in a ban? And in this case, if the minister and the government parties – apart from the Christian People's Party – want an investigation that will end in a ban, why couldn't they promote that proposal today, so that we could vote for it, all of us, so that we could get the majority to do it? I wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2848	Now let me try one more time: it's laws that govern the country. We have to pass laws, which have been at the hearing, where everyone has been told something, where we have checked that this is in the law, and where we put the law before the Storting. It's not like it would have been banned with conversion therapy sails if you had adopted it here today. It will be prohibited when the law comes. And that law we've said will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2854	I think that arrogant answers do not claw this case very well. I think Stortinget is fully aware of what is common practice in law decisions and petition decisions. I react very much to how the Minister for Gender Responds to replies in such an important matter. Let's go about one year back. Then almost all of the Storting decided, with three votes against, to ask the government, in a request decision, to extend the hate crime law to trans-persons. So it was investigated by the government, and now we are told that there will be immediate proposals for the Stortinget. So let's do that. It sends strong signals. Why couldn't the Storting also say in this case to those who have stood up, that yes, we see you, we want a ban, we adopt it here, just this way? Why isn't that the way to do it, okay in this case when it was when it was about trans-personnel and hate crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2863	It was by no means a desire to be arrogant; it was an intense desire to be ready. That a clearer answer than yes and no here is perceived as arrogant, I am sorry for that. I don't think that's the basis. It is obvious that we have said in response from the government, in a letter that the representative as rapporteur has chosen to attach to the matter, that we will come with this. A clearer answer than that I can not present here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2868	If the government agrees with the research and believes that conversion therapy is harmful, why is new, long investigations needed? You could then vote in favour today and then determine exactly how to determine the finer legal text, during the period you work with the law. This is part of a trend. In the Granavolden Declaration, the term ‘examined’ refers to many dozens of times, and similarly to the word ‘estimate’. My question is, what prevents the government, if we agree, from giving a guarantee of this today by voting in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2877	Nothing. That is why we have said in the letter that we should make a proposal. We do not have to vote to make a proposal when we have said that we are making a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2882	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2889	There is much to be said about the proposals that are being discussed in the Grand Duchy today. Gender and identity policies are often also related to value issues, and I have great respect for the fact that there are different opinions out there about those things. The problem arises when the debate fosters what I would call trolls, trolls that destroy all those who will contribute with factual and relevant arguments. I've seen a part of that in social media in the last few days. There have been cases where some around the Internet, including in my own municipality of residence, Hammerfest, have used this debate to label LHBTI organisations such as the FRI and Skeiv Youth with completely unsubstantiated claims. I have read comments where these trolls claim that the purpose of the FRI and Skeiv Youth is to have easy access to children, with different backgrounds. Then it's gone too far, and then someone has to put down their feet. I'll do that now. Former prime minister Jo Benkow once said, "I choose Right, because it is the party that best guarantees me the right to be different." My party has in its ideological foundation a respect for individuality and its autonomy, and I think that respect should be able to show to each other, no matter what background you have, no matter what ethnicity you have, no matter what religion you have, no matter what lay you have, and regardless of whether people consider themselves to be men, women, or anything else. It shouldn't be that when you choose to participate in a debate about sex and identity, you have to be raised as evil people with suspicious intentions, just because you represent a group of people who don't fit into the booths that we as big communities have made. It's completely wrong. Instead, as a big community, we should respect those who are different, no matter what the type of difference you have. At least that's the kind of society I want. Of course, it should be allowed to disagree. It shall be permissible for a third sex not to be introduced, just as it shall be permissible for a third sex to be introduced. It's supposed to be allowed to discuss value issues with society around you, but it's actually not good to accuse others of the things that FRI and Skeiv Youth now feel to be accused of. Then the necessary value debate suddenly becomes a worthless debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2904	I believe in love and have shown it not least this summer by attending Pride festivals from Voss in the west to Fredrikstad in the east. In this article, I will focus on the debate on conversion therapy, and I will talk a little bit about the debate on the debate itself. With all possible respect for my political opponents, I would say that the last few weeks should not be the most proud time in political history. But let me first be very clear that in this case I am safely planted at the same position as the great majority of the Norwegian population, and that position I so quickly flagged the theme on the agenda, when VGTV challenged us with its strong stories. My game has also done the same thing. I think the few people have doubted where they have us on this question. In the last few weeks, some have been more concerned about trying to raise doubts about the positions of other parties or helping to lower the debate on a major and difficult issue to the lowest level. The debate at the NRK put the theme on the transmission form. There one of the followers of banning conversion therapy said that it's strange if a white, heterophilic man knows more about gay than gay himself, and put with it a counter-debate chess matt. With that as a starting point or argument, I guess we'll put a lot of the Greatness on the sideline of this debate. From the Workers' Party and SV, it has been about either saying yes to a ban or being for conversion therapy, but fortunately, it is not real. We have been at odds with the action we are talking about, but we have said that we must both look at today's legislation and work out a number of points before we conclude on how this should be enforced. It is quite right that several countries have gone ahead of us in this work, but what is common is that many of these have chosen different solutions, age limits, measures and exceptions. That is why we have said that a job must be done before we come to the wording of a legal text, which the Council of State has again been very clear in the evening to come. During the Committee’s hearing, Skevt’s Christian network was clear that knowledge and attitudes are an important way to change and that they want an investigation as a first step. Then I will also, like several before me tonight, add that a new law alone probably will not help many. We also need to change our attitude. Then we have to stand together in this room to show that this is something we're all behind. Then it's only depressed when the main focus is instead to push each other down the road towards this important goal, namely to help these terrible abuses no longer happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2919	As a liberal, I try to live by directing politics towards two messages, or two mottos. One is that my freedom ends where yours begins. The second is the Cardamom Act. You don't have to bother others, you have to be nice and nice, and otherwise you can do whatever you want. With these two life rules in mind, there may not be much doubt as to what I mean about so-called conversion therapy or homotherapy. It has shaken me deeply to follow VGTV in the fall and the debate that has escalated in retrospect. The fact that grown people think this is a good thing, and that some people even think it's a right to do this, makes you sit back with a sense of powerlessness and arrogance. At least I do. Some questions are about the seventh and last page you want to stand on, and whose side you want to stand on. I admit that my party has not always been what has been at the forefront of the train and in the fight for skeletons and their rights. I believe that many in my party, including those who have held a leading position, regret today. Today, when we say clearly and clearly and distance ourselves from this type of therapy, it's precisely because we want to clearly identify who is on our side. To distance themselves from conversion therapy is not about taking away religious freedom and freedom of expression, as some try to make it as. Taking away from conversion therapy is about protecting people, and to a large extent young people, from harassment. It's not about banning opinions. It is about saying no to a practice that is not only irrational but also potentially dangerous, especially for children and young people. We know that young skews have a greater risk than others of the same age to experience depression and anxiety, and there are more cases of self-injury and suicide among them than elsewhere in the population. A lot of these kids think there's something wrong with them. It's not. We're not going to ban everything we don't like. But we must and must distance ourselves from a practice that harms young people who may, above all, need a confirmation that it is okay to be themselves, instead of being exposed to a practice that goes on the very opposite. Some claim that this is about freedom of religion. I don't mean it's true. If it is religious freedom that legitimizes a practice that is harmful to young people, the way we practice religious freedom is something serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2932	The Christian People's Party, in its special remarks in the committee position, has made a thorough presentation of our concern that a ban on what is termed conversion therapy with a collective term will limit what religious communities and individuals are allowed to exercise, believe and believe. When the term ‘conversion therapy’ is defined in such a way that it may also include mental - health interviews where adults on their own initiative want to discuss and guide an experienced conflict of conscience, yes, then the Christian People’s Party does not want a ban. We also think it is rather frightening that the parties that want to legislate a ban do not seem to emphasize this aspect of conscience at all. Is there a sought-after issue? Let me then highlight some very interesting aspects of the UN Declaration of Human Rights, which Norway has ratified, and which thus apply as Norwegian law. Yes, more than that: if Norwegian legislation conflicts with the Declaration of Human Rights, the latter applies. Article 1 of the Declaration of Human Rights differs significantly from the other 29 articles describing human universal rights. Article 1 stands out because it describes some very fundamental features of human nature that define us all as human beings. I would therefore quote Article 1 in its entirety: ‘All human beings are born free and with the same human dignity and human rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act against each other in the spirit of the brotherhood.» So the Declaration of Human Rights states that we all have two inherent qualities that define our value as human beings: the ability to think rationally and act afterwards, and the ability to listen to the voice of conscience and act accordingly. So it's not that the conscience is a compass that leads us all in the same direction. For others, what feels right and unproblematic may conflict with one's own conscience, and vice versa. Whatever way the compass of conscience has to lead each one of us, the Declaration of Human Rights still obliges us to have absolute respect for the inner voice of conscience – because it makes man unique in relation to the rest of nature. So Article 12 of the Declaration of Human Rights says something that seems to have gone completely under the radar for most of the people in this case, but that is equally full is very important: «No one must be subjected to any interference in the private, family, home and correspondence, or to any attack on honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attack.’;» I hope and believe that most people will agree that there is hardly anything more private in a person's life than their own sexuality, whether it be in the field of lay or practice. Sexuality is part of the innermost sphere of privacy. If a person is to experience a conflict of conscience about his own sexuality and wish to talk to someone about it, is the legislator, that is, the Grandfather, to be the answer, that one must have a conflict of conscience in peace, but at the moment someone talks about it, will the interlocutor be subjected to legal persecution and risk a fine or imprisonment? If that happens, my conclusion is clear. Then we are quickly entering totalitarian thinking, where important principles of the Declaration of Human Rights are set aside – the ability and right of human beings to listen to the voice of conscience and the right to protection against public interference in private life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2955	The opposition has contributed to a debate that has been important both for Norwegian policy and for a fundamental social debate. We've had to take the political and social temperature on some very basic principles. The proposals we are discussing today have raised fundamental questions with a strong media focus on what kind of society we want, and how the rights of individuals are respected, along with a commitment to freedom of belief. We in the Christian People's Party are happy for this. But we think it's a pity that there wasn't a broader debate around the whole of the proposals. In my opinion, this harvest has also shown us the importance of a political Norway that fights for freedom of faith, also for those who believe completely different from us, and where we distance ourselves from the content of religion. Dialogue, information, debate and criticism – yes, there are legitimate instruments that are fully in line with respect for individual rights and freedom. But no one has the right to deprive each individual of the right to make his or her own choices as long as you do not harm others or violate Norwegian law. Punishing religious freedom and tolerance as a principle means preserving the possibility of others choosing differently from what we think they should. Therefore, we must refrain from trying to limit the freedom of others from acting on the basis of the individual's conviction because one disagrees and even thinks otherwise. In the defence of freedom of belief and the right of each individual to be the sovereign of his own life, it is also worth pointing out what freedom of religion is not about. Like most other rights, freedom of belief is not boundless and unconditional. In practice, there are clear limitations on what individual can do. It is legitimate and necessary that no one should put others under pressure or pressure or try to restrict people from killing and harming each other, because freedom of faith does not mean putting others against their will or that we should not care. Therefore, we have good reason to say that faith should never justify violence against others or that the rights of others are violated from a right perspective of freedom of belief. I thought that the announced investigation would clarify whether there is a hole in today's law that makes it impossible to say no to coercion or strong social pressure in terms of conversion therapy, with the law in hand. The answers we have received in the reply exchange today, which reinforces the view that the investigation will lead to injunctions in any case, have strengthened the Christian People's Party's belief that it was right to express disagreement about the question of investigation or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2966	This is a bit of a strange debate. I sit myself and know both anger, despair and a little arrogance, but I'm going to try to gather on something I think is an important prerequisite for us to move on in this debate. I believe that the government's handling of the case has opened up a room for a public debate that has also aroused a live online role and a selection of 'fake news'. Our mailboxes are filled with conspiracy theories that the organisation FRI destroys young people, that those who are in favour of LHBTI policy are too pedophilia, and that those who believe that a proper, right family consists of two sexes – he and she, and that this real family is under pressure and will be destroyed if there is a homotherapy ban, or if these proposals are adopted. All of these theories and statements hit skews, transpersons and others with a different sexual orientation and gender identity hard. They leave off posting statuses on Facebook because they know what's coming, and they can't read it. Some trustees feel that the limit has been reached because they are engaged in an information work that is being accused of being destructive and illegal, Jr. Christian People's Party's rapporteur candidate, who has reported to the municipality of Hammerfest because they have used Rosa competence course in school to disseminate knowledge about gender and gender gaps. That communication is funded by the Directorate of Health, the Directorate of Education and the Directorate of Police and is part of the government's policy, which fortunately the Minister of Equal Opportunities decided yesterday. So this is also Christian People's Party policy as long as the Christian People's Party is in government. Yes, we need more knowledge, more research and more dissemination. Brian and Arne Christian were brave. They gave a face to being exposed to the assault of the powers, and it's not about freedom of belief. Courage is also e.g. the head of Skeiv Youth, FRI, Skeiv World, Salam, Skeivt Christian Network, and the Patient Organization for Gender Conjunction, who experience almost bombardment with misinformation and false facts. It's more than two genders. Homophili is not a sin. Freedom of faith has not been affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e2984	On January 11, 1973, my uncle Nils was on the front page of the VG together with his fiancée, Waldemar. «– We are happy with each other and have engaged ourselves. For the first time in history, two Norwegian gay men stand before the public in this way.» [[...]] The finest thing about this story is not that these two men were incredibly brave at a time when this was very controversial, despite what they had to go through to be role models for others. And the finest thing about this story is not that 50 years later I am incredibly proud of my uncle, who stood up, showed his face and dared to show his love. The finest thing about this story is how Grandma reacted to this front page. She was of course aware of her son's lay, but this was not something they talked a lot about. So it was a big shock for her to see this front page. It belongs to the story that she was a very religious and a member of the Pentecostal community. When she went to the councillor of Pentecost and told of her son, who had stood up publicly with his legation, she was told to beat his hand. "But I can't do that," she said. He's my heartchild. That was the point. She realized that she could not convert her gay son, and she realized that she could not stop loving him either. This was almost 50 years ago, and I wish that when we discuss the matter of homotherapy, we could meet people with the same love. Because it's not like there's too much love in the world, on the contrary. And the greatest of all is love. No matter if it often occurs in a wonderful way. Sexual orientation is not something to cure, and in Norway we have to care for minorities. Conversion therapy is simply a violation of sexual minorities. We have received many reports of what conversion therapy does to people, after Morten Hegseth, in the VG, raised the debate on whether conversion therapy should be banned in Norway. There are strong stories that involve depression, self-harm and suicide. I think we know now. We know more than enough. We should ban conversion therapy, and in 2019 we have something to learn from my grandmother, who was born in 1913. The greatest of all is love.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3000	We've heard many stories, there are many who have shown a great courage to take this fight. As politicians, we have to say a great thank you for that. Now there's a lot of people who trust us to make the right choices. In 2019 in the Norwegian National Assembly, we discuss whether or not to prohibit conversion therapy. It's kind of backwards, and it's pretty amazing that we're there. We don't want people of trust, adults, leaders, role models to abuse their power to oppress those who are most vulnerable, those who come and ask for help and advice and are desperate and feel that something is wrong – and who then get the answer that it is. Because that's what you do when you do this. It's abuse. It's only one thing to do if you think this is not right, and it's of course to vote for banning it, vote for the principle that you're against conversion therapy. It's no use painting with a broad brush in the debate, for what counts for those who need it, we can actually do that: press that button when we get to voting. Are you for, or are you against? Besides being politicians, we all have a different background. My background is being a psychologist, and I have also checked out what my trade union believes about this. They say, ‘Instead of supporting natural legation, conversion therapy very often creates greater internal strain and internal conflict. For many, these conflicts become impossible to live with, and ultimately, they can result in suicide. From a psychological point of view, Norwegian psychologists’ association believes that conversion therapy must be prevented and considered as an offence if carried out. Infringements may not be justified on the grounds of freedom of religion or freedom of expression.» Here the Christian People's Party should pay particular attention. Administrations may not sit still and look at practices that violate life and health. So these are the union's words, the professionals say this, so if you want to say something against it, you say it's a better idea. What you vote and not, is important, at least in a matter like this. The Labour Party will always stand up for diversity, for justice, for fellowship and for those who need it the most – and they need us now. Then I hope that the minister will also follow up on what the representative Gruvan says. He thinks it is strange that you now say that it should end up in a ban. I hope the Minister intends to resolve this uncertainty that is evident between the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3022	We live in a world where LHBTI people are attacked and persecuted. In many countries, we see that the authorities are now tightening up their intervention. Then it is good that Norway engages in the world. I would like to use this debate to also give support and praise to all the embassies who raise their voices, among others. by participating in Pride markers in other countries. It's a paradox that while we get involved out there, we've got the first family minister for years who doesn't even want to participate. The Pride marking is probably fine without the Christian People's Party leader participating, but he who has one of the top jobs in Norway, should be aware of what signals he sends when he says what he says, either to all those who wonder who they are, or to all the children who grow up in a family that Norway's family minister believes is no reason for celebration. In the Workers' Party, we have a proud gay history – from Trygve Bratteli, the prime minister who lifted the ban on homophilis, until the partnership law was fought by Gro Harlem Brundtland and Grete Berget, until we were given joint marriage law under the leadership of Karita Bekkemelm and Anniken Huitfeldt. But in the Workers' Party, we're not on target. That is why we have today put forward ten proposals, but certainly all of them are voted down by the four bourgeois parties. Once again, the left-hand side takes hold, while when the right-hand parts control, it's still silent. The right has used this debate to say that they think the debate has been difficult. The Council of State refers in its response to the number of requests for a red-green vote. But today it doesn't matter, for all the people who have raised their voice, deserve clear answers. Unfortunately, they don't get that today. All they get is an investigation. Neither are the government parties able to gather here. Then I get extra worried when I hear the intensity of the Christian People's Party posts. They're talking about issues of conscience. We have freshened in mind what the Prime Minister has been willing to give the Christian People's Party in matters of conscience – freshly remembered, we have the abortion case, the right of reservation and other matters. Finally, we heard from the Minister that we could get an investigation done in 2021. For those waiting for an answer, two years are long. What's fine is that there's light in the tunnel, because in 2021 there are also elections, and a new majority in this hall will leave no doubt. This will never be a negotiation card for us, this will never again be met with new postponements. This practice shall be removed once and for all. If we don't get it today, we'll have a new majority in two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3033	Conversion therapy is clearly a practice that brings shame and should never be allowed. I am surprised that the government cannot take a clear position today. When the representative Reiten refers to a legal text on improper interference in his own private life, and the representative Gruvan states that it is important not to deprive others of the right to make their own choices, it is ironic that they do not see that the logic of the statements also leads to the right to a ban on conversion therapy. Although we prohibit that practice, there is a lot that needs to be done to create an inclusive society where everyone has freedom and security to be who they are. How to meet students at school are, for example, important to the acceptance and acceptance of students. Young LHBTI students in school report more bullying and mental health problems than the general population. Many report that it would have helped if school education were more inclusive, and whether it was taught about sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression in several subjects. Just before the new curriculums for the school were recently presented, more people were concerned that there were no clear skills objectives in this regard. Although the Ministry of Knowledge said they would take responsibility, the result was not as the Workers' Party or the organisations wanted. In fact, the words gender and sexuality are mentioned, and there is a broader objective of competence that includes gender and sexuality, but where gender is mentioned, many will interpret it to be about gender roles and equality between men and women. Sexuality in education has long been limited to dealing with heterophiles. On Monday, the Education Committee in this room will deal with a matter of curriculums. There will be a debate on the objectives of competence in curricula, although proposals will also be made in this matter. The Workers' Party and the SV will make the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for security of competences to ensure that students learn about and reflect on different sexual orientations and gender identity and expression variations.’ The Labour Party is concerned that words that deal with minority learning are largely removed. In order to ensure that sexual orientation, gender identity and expression are actually taught, these concepts should be specifically addressed in the curriculum. If it had been adopted, it would have been ensured that teaching gives acceptance to everyone and creates inclusion. Unfortunately, that proposal is likely to have the same fate as all the proposals being put forward here today: they are supported by the opposition, but they are not given a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3049	The equivalency of humans is supreme for us in the Workers' Party. That is why the fight for equality, the fight for equal pay and the fight against increasing differences are important to us. When I grew up – and it was quite a long time ago – Åge Alexandersen came with a special one that became immensely popular and meant too many. I won't sing the song, but two of the verses went like this: «He was the best good in the class One in School and Sports A mother - in - law's dream cow you call He was making tea to be big. But then start the rally when good came home. And tell me that no had seen a friend. And that they had so little intention of living together Yes, the father was furious and the mother was hit’ Age has always been a good social debater, and the song he wrote gave us a greater understanding of human dignity, the right to love whomever you want, and that diversity itself has a self-value. Homophili was not a theme in the classroom at the time – over 40 years ago. Today, we may have gained more knowledge and tolerance, but there is also a long way to go in terms of attitudes and respect for everyone, regardless of their orientation. This debate and the openness of individuals over the past few weeks have opened many eyes to how many people are still being violated and have a difficult time. I therefore think it is important that the Stortinget sends a clear order that conversion therapy is banned, and that we do what we can in the fight against hate crime. The debate today shows that we still have a long way to go, and I find that sad. I'm incredibly happy to represent a party that sets human dignity, tolerance and respect highest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3078	Words and fine phrases are important, but decisions are most important. That is what happened on 21 March 1991, when this house passed the Partnership Act. The Labour Party's proposal received a scarce majority, thanks to three outbursts from the right. That was what was important on July 13, 2000, when I myself, as Minister of the Church, was given the opportunity to appoint the first open gay priest in Norway, Jens Torstein Olsen, whose case had remained on the table of the previous government. That was what was important on June 11, 2008, when the Stortinget again, against the Christian People's Party and the votes of the Advance Party, adopted a new and common marriage law. The decision to be taken by the Stortinget on 11 December 2019 is that the proposal ‘is not adopted’. That's what's going to be left when people talk about today's debate. The council says that in a letter to the Stortinget she has announced that there will be a ban on conversion therapy. It must be said to be misinforming the Size. The Council of State has written three letters to the Committee on this matter. First, on 16 September she wrote about the one proposal for a representative, a response that did not at all contain anything about either an investigation or a new proposal. The same was true of the second letter, which came on 16 September, where she also has a completely meaningless wording on this issue. So, after the media has raised the matter – and honour to be a VGTV – there will be a letter on 19 November 2019. It says: ‘In my replies, I did not decide whether a conversion therapy/conversion therapy ban should be introduced or whether such practices conflict with the applicable legislation. As the responsible State Council for the Equality and Discrimination Act, I already want to signal that I will launch an investigation into how practices aimed at changing the sexual orientation or gender identity of persons relate to national legislation [[...]] [[...]] And then it says, ‘The Government will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with the follow-up to these questions and any further legislative changes to prevent this type of practice. [[...]] I understand very well that the Christian People's Party is surprised at the answer given by the Council of State to the exchange of lines, because that is a contradiction to what is stated in the letter. If she had written in the letter that she would come back with a new law, we would not have had to promote this proposal. It is common practice when alerting the implementation of request decisions. Now, the Council of State has to clarify: is that what the letter of November says or what she says from the pulpit, that applies, and why are the two things different?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3101	I'm a little surprised that a former government council doesn't believe that what's said in the pulpit of a state council commits. It was then new to me. What I have said today, commits, but from both the media and the setting it is clear that the Christian People's Party does not support that letter and behind the plan that lies there. But it's the government's plan that's there. I want to come back to some of the things that were not asked in the reply, but to which I was challenged in my post. This was the case with the Stortinget's request decision of 7 May 2018 to extend the protection of criminal law against discrimination. The decision was taken here on 7 May 2018. The government sent a proposal for a hearing together with some other changes it wanted on 4 July 2018. The last hearings on the bill came in April this year. Now the government is working to produce that law, and it includes both the themes it has heard about in this area, and some other laws. Formulaions in the budgetary procedure of the Ministry of Justice and Defence that the Ministry intends to assess the need for legislative change before the end of the current enlargement period must not be taken as an expression that the government does not intend to follow up the request decision. The wording is simply a process of follow-up to the proposal, which is now being sent to the hearing. It has always been that governments mention this in official letters to the Stortinget, and it will also apply here. Yes, it's decisions that are important, but it's the law decisions that matter. It is those who agree to change in practice, not the request decisions. Then I would like to comment on what was said about curricula, and which was also said in the budget debate, that there has been a debate on the content of curricula. There we have gone in and changed, so that the objections that came from the organisations in this field have also been taken into account in the final curricula that are there. I'm always a little overjoyed when you quote the big kings of the thunderbolt from here, and also in this case. It wasn't just Åge Aleksanders who was in front here. Terje Tysland also has it in his song “The Clocks”. I may not think the whole text of Terje Tysland fits from Stortinget's pulpit, but I want to quote the last sentences: ‘Yes, dearness e’ because so many The bell he had so beautiful and judgments calling them “tolerable” e’ maybe a little envious’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3125	This is a tough thing that affects many fates – fates we have finally been told about. I'm very happy that those stories have come out. I also want to underline one thing, and it is that I am also pleased that it seems that the Storting can at least go one step further today, and I believe that those who have told their stories can also think that they have contributed to it. They really do. I would also like to stress that I see very well the intentions of the Left and the job they have done in this matter. I'm very aware of that. We've seen that, and I'm glad we have a party in government that has stood up for that. I really appreciate that. There's going to be a debate today, and I think it's an important debate, about what kind of signal the Stortinge sends out when we still don't vote in favour of the proposal, and there's some confusion about what's the result of an investigation of a law ban. But I'm recording what the Council of State says in the pulpit, and that the Council of State underlines what she says in the pulpit. Then I hope that's what's being said here, that's at the end, and not what's written in letters to the committee. However, I wish we could have done as I said in the reply, that the Storting could have got together about a clear signal where we say, we see you, and we want to show that we're doing something about it. I think it was very beautiful when Stortinget adopted the extension of the Hate Crime Act almost unanimously. I believe that this case had also been good for those who have stood up. That's what also provokes many of us that we can't do today. Finally, I just have to answer something else that provokes me very much in this matter, and it is the speeches that come about freedom of belief. For what about my freedom of faith as a Christian and a skewer? What about my freedom of belief – that I can go to my congregation and be myself without being told that I have to change? I wish that freedom of belief would also defend the representatives of the Christian People's Party, and not only the freedom of people to take serious action that has fatal consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3140	The government changed the abortion law with a pen stroke. To deprive Christian conservatives of the right to destroy the lives of homosexuals through homotherapy, the government must take time to investigate. Both parts are unacceptable. Both parts are out of date. In both cases, the government is on rocking ground. In recent months, the debate on conversion therapy has been burning. The Labour Party promoted in June this year a proposal for a ban. Today, the government parties at Stortinget vote against the proposal. Why? Because it has to be investigated. The investigation argument is not valid. It is a good idea for Stortinget to state that there should be a ban on homotherapy, while it is obvious that the ministry will then have to work on the different boundaries. The majority of Stortinget decided a year and a half ago that the government must include gender identity and gender expression in the criminal law hate paragraph. Since then nothing has happened. How long do we have to wait? The government is now working on an assessment of whether and how gender identity and gender expression can be included in the protection of criminal law against various forms of hate crime. The decision in Stortinget was not to misunderstand or to interpret, and it would have been nice if the government could soon begin to treat majority decisions from Stortinget as anything other than electoral matters that they see a little lightly, or in which they simply give the bluff. While the government spends its theoretical exercises, LHBT people are being knocked down in our streets. How difficult can it be to establish a regulatory framework to ensure better protection for this group as well? I'm more than worried about how long the government is going to spend on investigating conversion therapy. How many will have their lives destroyed before the government has completed the investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3153	First, I want to make some comments. We must not now look so blindly at the dark fields of communities and religious communities that we forget that in fact this kind of abuse can also occur in parts of health care – in the public sector and in the private sector. Transpersons have e.g. told that they are referred to DPSs or to treatment because they are struggling with their gender identity and their acceptance and are told that there is nothing to stress, that they do not initially have that problem, and that they should only be sure that they are heterophilic like everyone else. So this isn't just about freedom of belief and religion. It is about attitudes and actions, and it is about disseminating knowledge and proper knowledge. I want to read the proposal that we have promoted: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to prohibit conversion therapy.’ Everyone in this room knows that when the Stortinget asks the government to come forward with a proposal for a law, it will have to investigate. It has put the government in trouble and created uncertainty and unrest in the environments and in the people who really want to get this fixed once and for all. An argument that has been used is conscience. Then I want to say that conscience was used as an argument when we were going to introduce equality, sexual and reproductive health for women, abortion for women and contraception. Conscience is used in a lot of contexts that restrict people's equivalency. Freedom of faith is used. No one has suggested that anyone should not believe that homophilis is sin. What we are proposing, and what we are asking for, is a bill that targets a practice of power that destroys people. That's what this case is about. It's argued with privacy, and it's a fundamental private thing to have a sexual orientation. Yes, it is. But privacy has also been used to argue earlier about violence against women and the beating of children. When that law was to be introduced, it was also a significant argument. Then to the time perspective. When we proposed this and the government came with their letter, it rushed like that, because then they would start the investigation immediately. So now we have to wait until 2021 before they come back with a bill. All this time we're going to have a growth of fake news and more status updates that are very unpleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3178	Today there have been many very good speeches from this pulpit by representatives from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. It has been excellently argued for exactly what the Center Party believes, that so-called conversion therapy is unacceptable and harmful. It is therefore fascinating to note that representatives of these parties, the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left, will not vote in favour of a proposal they express great support for through very good contributions. But they may not, because the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal. It must be, because otherwise they could do as the Christian People's Party does: vote for their own policy. So despite the fact that it is the Left who has the Minister for Gender Equality, it may seem that it is the Christian People's Party that governs equality policy. I register that and find it nothing less than strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3183	I want to start by commending all those who have raised this problem. By «this problem», I mean people who think homophilis is something that requires therapy. It's not gay people who need therapy, it's the people who offer conversion therapy. There is something seriously ill with the whole concept, and therefore the Progress Party believes that this is important to correct. A sexual orientation is something you're born with. In Norway, we have to accept and respect people as they are. You should be allowed to love whomever you want. I think it's sad that there are people who offer conversion therapy, and I think it's just as sad that there are people who accept it and call it religious freedom. I've been e-mailed by some of those people there, who call the FRI movement and those who want to ban conversion therapy, for a penetration of an entirely new doctrine that will have enormous consequences, and at the same time they warn against a mass production of gender confusion for future generations. I'm startled by the attitudes that exist out there towards homosexuals, not only in Christian environments, but in Muslim environments and in non-religious environments. I'm glad that an almost total accumulation takes a settlement with conversion therapy. All harmful forms of therapy regarding sexual orientation should cease, and we in the Progress Party look forward to an investigation into how we can achieve it. I note that some of the discussions here are about whether a legislative proposal should be examined in advance. I understand that all parties on the Stortinget know that in order for a legislative proposal to go through, it has to be investigated, and I therefore do not see the problem of the previous speaker, from the Senterpartiet. An investigation must be in place. Let me end by saying: Homofile doesn't need conversion therapy; on the other hand, those who offer it. Those who condemn homosexuals obviously need a lot of help, and I hope they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3194	I do not hear any representatives in this Chamber clarify exactly what they will prohibit. Someone is suggesting that we have to put in place a law order to send a signal. It happens that the Storting does just that, that we adopt a law in the hope that it will have a normative effect, and in some cases it may be a very good grip to take. But as legislators, we also have to think completely and think about whether what we're now adopting can actually affect some other completely fundamental rights. That is why I was so happy when our own Prime Minister first asked how she stood for a ban on conversion therapy, drew up the fact that such a ban could be challenging in relation to freedom of belief and expression, and that the Prime Minister wrote on her blog that she was skeptical about banning everything she didn't like as long as it wasn't about coercion or abuse of power. Because we have to bear in mind that minorities, whether Christian, Muslim or secular, have opinions and theological positions that conflict with the prevailing social norms and that go across our equality ideals. Then we are there that the Minister for Gender Equality has on his own initiative asked for an investigation, and we just heard Skei Grande's laws to put in place a law, promise to get a ban in place. Yes, then I understand the opposition's question. What's the point of an investigation when you're going to get a ban in place anyway? I'm very excited about how the Prime Minister will follow up when a proposal is on the table. When the Prime Minister clearly sees the same challenges as the Christian People's Party, will she ensure that the individual's right to seek conversation and prayer for absolutely what they want is maintained? Finally, I would like to say that this conversion therapy debate has become a very tabloid and very little nuanced debate. It is produced as if it were only in favour of or against a ban, that a ban is the only solution, and, as I have experienced this harvest, that those who oppose a ban are also against homosexuals. Even I have experienced being called the dark lady on podcasts, in social media, yes everywhere. My son has heard from the school that his mother is a real homotheater. The only thing I've done in the debate after debate, in post-posts, is to say that we're against all the forced attempts to change human orientation. People have to be as they are. Homophili is not a disease that we're going to try to cure in any way. Does that make me a dark lady? We all have a responsibility to create a nuanced debate that promotes tolerance, and I can't get enough to say that a society of diversity and space for everyone is creating us first and foremost through openness, through attitude work and by enforcing existing laws they sometimes do something cross-border.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3211	When there is still a little bit left on the list of speakers, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the committee for what I experience at least internally has been a very good discussion and treatment of this matter. This matter requires respect, and this theme requires respect. In the left we take this very seriously, and that's why a lot is done in this area as well. The government is providing several new initiatives on an ongoing basis. That is also why we do not vote in favour of the opposition's proposal today, not because we necessarily disagree on the matter, but because we have our own processes in a number of areas within this. The Safety, Diversity and Transparency Action Plan is an example of this. It is moving towards the end of the planning period for it, and I myself look forward to seeing results from it and to speeding up the evaluation and work on a new plan, where several of these issues should also be addressed. So some comments on much of what has been said in the debate today. First of all, a little technical comment on some of what the Trettebergstien says about the ILGA ranking, because it is absolutely right that we have fallen locally, but the fun thing about it is that we haven't gotten worse. The positive thing is that there are several countries that have come up in our division, and therefore we have several countries that we compete with to be the best. It's not a rest cushion for us not to do any more, because we have to, and the government has also committed itself to that. I would like to say briefly that there are several representatives, among others: The representative of Fagerås, who when they talk about homotherapy, just uses the term homotherapy. As I said in my first post, it's incredibly important that we don't forget transpersons too and therefore make sure that when we talk about this, we use more inclusive terms. I don't believe in any way it was the representative of Fagerås' intention to exclude trans-persons. The representative Myrseth says that it's amazing that we're discussing this here today, in 2019, but it's not so amazing, because skews have been talking about this for a number of years without a single politician ever lifting a finger. Nor when the representative Giske himself was a minister, was it lifted a finger for just this with conversion therapy. I don't owe any single politicians in this, because none of us have done enough, but now that we're here saying we're going to do something, at least I'm asking the opposition to believe us. To the Christian People's Party, which comments on sexuality, I just want to say that sexuality is not a private matter if it is used by others to discriminate against you. You have the right to live out your sexuality and be faithful to it in public without being hated. It's true that no one acknowledges the use of conversion therapy, but it's not the confirmation we're going to judge, it's the practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3226	This topic and some of the fact that conversion therapy is legal today, I have to say that I experience as a very interventional person for me and my legation. I cannot accept that young people who are in the most difficult and uncertain age of their lives will be subjected to antipersonal and self-confidential therapy. It's happening today. We've seen how harmful it can be, in Morten Hegseth's good documentaries. It only says a little about the value of some Christian and religious environments when they send dozens of e-mails to us as big ones. They claim that for a lot of different reasons and reasons, we cannot vote for this. In other words, they are asking their knees to be allowed to continue this harmful practice. Where are the same Christian people when it comes to poverty-stricken decisions in the Storting? Where are the same Christian people when aid policy is debated? And where are these people when we debate other important Christian values in the Storting? I have not received any e-mails from these pointed church sound people about this. It seems to me that there is the right to perform conversion therapy that is the most important thing for various Pentecostal sounds and Philadelphia people. I'm startled, and not least I'm being bored on behalf of all the young people who will grow up among such behaviors in the future, to then be subjected to conversion therapy. Conversion therapy is an attack - let there be no doubt about it. One should be unusually strong in the psyche if one is to be able to get harmless from an environment that has tried to change you as a person. The fewer are. During the last few weeks, we have heard about the unlikely consequences this may have for individuals who are exposed to this. It's ruining life. And it's a shame to say that, but it was these things that made me turn myself out of church. It contradicts me that this is happening today. It is absolutely necessary to prohibit conversion therapy. Many young, beautiful, and colorful souls who have not been given the choice of church sounds to which their parents relate will be afraid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3239	When I read the setting and listen to the debate today, I become optimistic in the medium or half-short term. Very well has been said in the debate, from Freddy André's strong, personal and principal opening posts and beyond, from many parties. In the light of the opinions expressed by representatives of three of the government parties here today, I cannot help but understand the need to come up with a bill that would prohibit conversion therapy. In the other themes that are being proposed today, there is also the movement and the will to change. Changes are coming, there's no doubt about it. What I don't understand is why we have to be so patient. In particular, why should we be so patient on behalf of those in the exposed minority position, who are not subject to the type of intrusions and abuses involved here – majority representatives? We could make a decision now while waiting for a bill that had sent an important signal. Because it's a fight going on in the world today, as many people have said. After several years of liberalisation of legislation and more tolerance in many countries in different parts of the world, there has been an alarming counter-reaction in very many countries in the form of reactionary, intolerant and violently aggressive advances. Norway must then – with all the clarity – show which side we are on in this fight. Unfortunately, that chance seems to leave the majority today. To the concern of the Christian People's Party for freedom of belief and expression: no one has proposed to ban thoughts, beliefs, opinions, opinions or prayers. Proposing a ban on conversion therapy is about banning harmful and infringing acts. For example, both the Anglican Church in England and Norwegian bishops are for a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3248	What I like at the very least in a society is when groups exploit the situation of vulnerable people and create depression, shame and, in the worst case, desire to take their own lives. Conversion therapy is a concrete example of this. That's why I'm very happy that State Council Skei Grande has been crystal clear in this room that the government has launched an investigation, and that a proposal is coming. As in almost all other matters in this Chamber, the government parties do not vote for a proposal for an investigation and a proposal already under way by the government. Neither did the Workers' Party, SV or the Centre's party in its eight years in government. It really brings me to what I like least about politics, and that's when parties try to construct strawmen and interpret their political opponents in the worst sense, knowing that it's not right, knowing that we want the exact same thing, and with prewritten posts where you just ignore what the state council committed said in this room just minutes ago. What is alarming is that no party in this room can draw a clear limit on what is considered conversion therapy, and what is religious practice, what is within our human rights obligations, and how much space we have for action. That is what an investigation should answer – that is why the government has launched an investigation. I have to say that when the representative Auchrus says that the Labour Party will not use the case as a negotiating card, it is strange that they in the same room have no problem using it in a political game. It is precisely those who are spreading even more unrest in the environments and the people who know this about the body. I have to be honest that it actually makes me a little pissed off – and I know that it's not a word I'm allowed to use. I just want to clarify two more things. One is that it was this government that put in place that one can change legal gender without forced sterilisation, after the Workers' Party put the proposal in a drawer. It is we who have presented new curricula in which sexual orientation and gender expression are explicitly mentioned in the social field. We have enhanced knowledge of this in the natural sciences. Even after the second step, students are going to talk about sexuality, feelings, sex and body. My colleague Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg was one of those who questioned the literature related to homophilia in the 1960s. She was one of those who stood in the fight that homophilis should not have been diagnosed as a disease. It didn't happen until 1990. Much has changed since 1990, but the debate we have in the Chamber today shows that it has obviously not changed enough, and it is still a long way to go before everyone's love is respected and tolerated, before all people experience the freedom to be themselves. I am pleased that the representative of Almeland said that this matter has been treated with respect in the committee. I should like it to be treated with respect in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3267	The President appreciates the representative’s obvious commitment, but when she herself is aware that it is not linguistically acceptable to use the word ‘cursed’, she should refrain from doing so in subsequent articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3272	I think today's debate shows very clearly why we from the opposition have been active in the media to get a real answer in the last few weeks. There was a representative from the Right here who was so tired of the debate on the debate, but this chaos that unfolds in the Chamber today between the government parties, shows why we have been concerned. As the representative Giske read out, it was not the case that the committee received a response from the State Council that a ban should be imposed. You should go through the law. That's not the same thing as ending up in a ban. The Council of State here today says that the investigation will lead to a ban. I'm glad. As I said earlier, I do not doubt that the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Left means it. But we have the windiest, most anti-equality government we've had in a long time. The Christian People's Party argues in the hall today, as an equivalent government party to the Left, I don't know exactly what this investigation is going to end in. The Prime Minister has said that she does not want a ban, and she is the one who ultimately decides. It is also said that this investigation will not be launched until a year and a half. I don't understand why there's a need to spend so much time on something that so many countries have introduced. But don't worry: if you don't land that investigation on a ban in the spring of 2021, there will be a ban in the autumn of 2021. Then hopefully there's been a government change. The Christian People's Party argues against a ban on conversion therapy because you can't ban everything you don't like. But the Christian People's Party had no problem two years ago in this room proposing a ban on smoking in private homes – no problem forbidding it. You only use that argument when it suits you. Smoking -- that's fine. Violation of human rights – not right. Those who believe that a ban on conversion therapy threatens freedom of religion – that is what I would have heard. Freedom of religion is about having the right to believe and worship who you want. One has the right to change religion, but one does not have the right to violate other people's human rights. If you are afraid that a ban will go beyond religious activities such as mental - health, it will only do so if you carry out conversion therapy in your mental - health care. If you don't, you have nothing to fear – finish talking! I hope those who look at this debate notice that what in all other equality issues is the difference on the left-hand side and the right-hand side also here. We on the left, the Workers' Party, SV, Red, MDG and the Center Party are uncompromising that everyone should be able to live a free and complete life. The right-hand side angles after.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3285	This is not a strange debate, as Mr Henriksen said. I think it's a very good debate, and it's an incredibly important debate on the rights of skews and on discrimination against skews in society. Then we've been put at the head of the debate on conversion therapy. I believe that the Trettebergstuen draws the Prime Minister's statements a little far, when it was claimed that the Prime Minister is against a ban. At least I haven't seen the Prime Minister say that. I respect the views of the Christian People's Party, but I do not agree. It is okay that the Christian People's Party does not agree. I want to say that it is not forbidden to pray for anyone. That's not what this is about. Nor is it forbidden to be in a conversation with anyone. What I don't want is an active action and using techniques to convert people. That's what this conversion therapy is all about. I don't think that's possible – and it's just disappointing to be in this type of therapy and see that this doesn't work. It's destructive, and it leads to shame. I am therefore very pleased that Trine Skei Grande is so clear that she will bring a bill to Stortinget. Then there was just no need for a bill not to be investigated. A law has to be in the future. It may be that we already have a legal ban today, that it is provided for in the Discrimination Act and in the Health Care Act. I suppose that's actually forbidden. Then I am concerned that we must resist extreme forces. The Council of Europe has been entitled to the rights of the discs, and the Council of Europe has received funding from this government – 1 million. In 2019, they had to work on the rights of the skews in the Member States. For this reason, a report from the Member States has been requested to the Council of Europe working with the rights of crooks, about their status and how they work. One thing is England, as I mentioned in my first speech here, where the Church of England has gone against conversion therapy, but there are other countries in the Council of Europe that are quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3296	In this room, we're going to have respect for our counter-debateants. I think the representative from the Right, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, made some good points, but it is also very important to stress in the debate that there are many Christians who have taken a great deal of distance from conversion therapy. And I'm going to warn you the most strongly against believing that this is only happening in Christian societies. We know that many Muslims in today's Norway live in fear and with threats to themselves and their own personality. In Norway, we do not accept any form of discrimination or harassment based on cruel attitudes towards homosexuals. It's simply not useful in my world to blame on a cultural basis. However, I have to say that the debate has been somewhat unfurnished, and that it is important to have respect for the fact that others can believe and believe something other than what we ourselves are doing. As a FrP, I have been in many debates and alone on my point of view, and I know how that can be, so I have to say that I have great respect for my colleague in the family and cultural committee who has stood up for his conviction today. It's actually allowed to disagree in this room, but at the same time treat each other with respect. I know I can't use words as a "curse," but as Barna's representative, I am very provoked to hear that the representative of the Christian People's Party tells me that her son is being bullied because she has been in a difficult debate. It is unacceptable to bully children, no matter who their parents are, what attitudes they have, or on which side of the debate they stand. We're adults. We have a responsibility for how we talk about each other, both as colleagues and counter-debateants, and we should never accept or sit and watch children get bullied. It is simply not acceptable, and I felt the need to stand up and say in this hall. I'm going to take that with me, too, because it's an important reminder when the debate is the hardest, that there's actually a child at home who sits and follows what we're talking about, and that children bully, is not okay, no matter who their parents are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3306	The President must remember that when the representative is aware that some words are not to be used in the debate, she should refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3311	It has been said in this debate that you should not ban everything you do not like, and it has also been said that it is important to have freedom of belief and freedom of expression. All of that's right. But we also have very clear rules when opinions or beliefs affect other people. There are religions that believe that accepting blood transfusion should be prohibited. We'll review that vision when it's about life. In this question, it's actually about life. One of the things that happened that year the government of Stoltenberg appointed the first gay priest, in 2000, was that there came a movie called «BE – dirty, sinful me». It was about Bjørn Erik Andersen, who left home on 20 October 1992 to never come back. His sister found his diary, where he wrote about how he was not undergoing conversion therapy, but was simply deeply religious, deeply believing. He was a Christian and was no longer able to stand in it tensely between being deep Christian and living with a church and a god who told that the lay he knew at the age of 20 was sinful and dirty. In his diary, he wrote: ‘Teater Bjørn Erik is facing this time, the last act is now being played. When it's carpet case, you don't know. That's good it's done. It starts to play theater, especially when you have the leading role in your own life all the time. I don't want to live, I don't want to play acting, I say the role of Bear Erik. It's over. Carpet fall.’» I think Gleditsch Lossius and Grövan mean well, and I understand that you think that God says that this is sin. But think of that feeling of being gay and Christian and being told that who you are is sinful – not the one you have chosen to be, or an action you have chosen to do, but the one you are. What a responsibility you take! This goes far beyond conversion therapy. Fortunately, in 20 years, we have had a complete change in the Norwegian Church, but still many are left. 50 years ago it was completely different. There are quoted songs here, and the finest song I know is "Trash her Torah" – or Tore, as it could well be called – as the Prøysen wrote in 1964, when being a bifile was at least sinful. There he writes: «Then you went slowly homeward, the hein reached me on the road. We walked as if we were barefoot towards the secret of life. We were leased through the boat with two equally saved hands. We said it was a split word, but no if we cried." But now we can say a split word.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3340	I have to admit that I have been a little surprised at how this debate has been. This is a very serious matter, a matter that affects some of the most important things in people's lives, their identity. Let's be clear: I share views with the representatives who have been on this platform and have shown resistance to conversion therapy, as we have seen in VGTV. The documentary put the feelings into my mind, and no one should have to endure what those who are in the documentary have had to go through. There is a clear majority against conversion therapy in this room, a clear majority against the fact that powers use their role to heal someone who is not ill. But I must point out that my prayer in my previous post, about an open and factual debate, is not taken as a result of the hall. Because when the Aukrus representative holds election numbers for his own party in a value debate, it will not be an open and factual debate. When the representative Giske almost accuses the Council of State of being dishonest in the Parliament's pulpit, it does not become an open and factual debate. I do not see the Christian People's Party in this debate as defenders of conversion therapy, or that they have a desire to convert homophiles. Yes, I disagree with them when they say that they will not support such an investigation that the Council of State has initiated. I disagree with them. But I believe that the representatives of Aukrast and Giske, like me, should respect their views. Because if we, like the National Assembly of the country, can't tolerate disagreements about a matter, then who can do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3349	A crucial reason why Norway has been such a good country to live in and so safe a country to live in too many is that we have some common driving rules. Part of the common driving rules is based on the laws that we adopt here in Stortinget. It was the representative of Lossius who addressed the issue of different religious minorities having different views on equality issues. I think that really makes this debate even more topical, because if in the years to come we still have to be able to ensure that people live safe and free lives in Norway, it is perhaps even more important than for a long time that we are clear about what are common driving rules and laws in Norway, especially at a time when inequalities are growing economically and there are several minorities who should be able to live harmoniously in the same society. In order to succeed in this, I think it is important that we in Stortinget say, on the contrary, that equality is a Norwegian value that we set so high that it is essential that we also develop legislation with that as an important goal. It has been crucial for us to have both the security and prosperity we have in Norway today. That is why in this debate, I think, we are clearly creating the most possible free life here also by having some good fellowship. I think we're finally going to land on that. But the question is how strongly internal contradictions there are in the government, and whether we get a final decision sooner or later – but I am absolutely convinced that it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3360	I'm lucky, because I'm born a woman, a heterophile, and in a body I feel at home. The reason why I'm lucky is not that it's more right than anything else, but that people leave me alone. I'm allowed to be, I'm allowed to live, I'm allowed to love in peace. I get to be myself, and it's a freedom I admire also everyone else. We're born as we are, and that's how we're going to be. We're even going to get to like being like that, to be a little bit different and love different from what the majority does. That someone in the name of religion or some belief wants to pressure others to be different is a fundamental flaw. Freedom of faith is important, but there must be a limit to how one can use one's own faith to try to change others. Putting other people's shame, pain and worry about being yourself – that is, being yourself – is completely unheard of, and many kinds of it should also be illegal. I'm sorry, I'm just here for a little week, so I'm probably not allowed to follow this process further. I would therefore like to point out that the most important contribution we can make is to fight this fight further on the outside of the hall. As politicians, we work with laws, and that is extremely important, but as politicians and fellow human beings, we have a great responsibility outside this Chamber too. I'm happy to travel back to my classroom, where I'm really working, teaching my students in the new curricula, an extended perspective on sexuality, and understanding that normal is much bigger than normal in between looks like. The good posts here that are kept from so many teams must be disseminated, they must be communicated, and they must be heard. For the problem isn't really the lack of a law, it's the lack of respect for other people, how they're created, how they think, and how they feel. A law shouldn't be necessary to do that, but unfortunately it looks like it is. In this room and in the government offices you have to continue working with the law, and then we have to fight together outside the hall and work to influence our fellow people who are not in this room today and hear all the good things that are being said. This can no longer be a debate and a struggle that the sexual minorities have to take alone, even when the media pressure we see now goes over, because it's going to. I'm not underestimating the effect of a law in any way, but the attitude work we have to continue, and it has to happen outside this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3373	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3378	There has been a lively debate with broad consensus on the main lines, but still quite perceptive. It was not Anette Trettebergstuen, but the representative of the Christian People's Party who said that the Minister for Gender – I think the word was used – was on his own now telling us that there should be a law. It was also the Christian People's Party's representative who first pointed out that the Prime Minister was unsure whether it was appropriate to change the law, or what was now said. So it's the Minister's colleague in a government party who says that. On 11 November, the Prime Minister said that she felt that ‘it is a good idea to have a quick explanation of the cases already known to be the subject of today’s ban’. She was also aware that a ban could be difficult to implement in practice and that it is possible to obtain an investigation My question to the Council of State is, does she have the Prime Minister's backing on her promise to return with a law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3387	The representative, Mr Almeland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3392	The parties of government have been clear from this pulpit. That's what's going on, and I also hope that the Workers' Party does as SV and the Center Party – believe us. There is a comment I would like to make on the contribution of the representative Henriksen earlier today, where she pointed out that the government's handling of this matter has opened up to a stream of false news, campaigns and conspiracy. Of course the representative may think so, but these false news, conspiracies and campaigns have existed for a long time. These e-mails that we now have, among other things. in the committee and certainly the whole Stortinget gets a flood of, are attitudes, campaigns and conspiracies that have existed for a long time, and that several of us who have spoken to us about these issues have also met for a long time. There's nothing new, but we're going to fight it. And to end with something positive: we have a lot of steps to go, and we commit to going them together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3401	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3406	I do not see that the Minister for Gender Affairs has signed up to answer the important question that the chaos that is happening today causes us to be left with. Is the Prime Minister behind this investigation and what the Left says in this Chamber that there should be a ban? It's very unclear. The Christian People's Party is an equivalent party to the government, and today's debate shows that it's not clear what's going to happen. I hope this ends in a law ban. If it doesn't, then – when we get back into government – we're going to implement it. I really just took the floor to thank all of you who are sitting in the gallery, you who have been in the fight, and who have made this debate so big. We have learned what this means, what kind of consequences discrimination has for LHBTI people today. Without you, there had been no investigation. Thank you! We from the opposition promise you to continue and fight with full strength so that everyone can live freely and for the rest of their lives in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3414	The President reminds the representative that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to people in the gallery, but she understands that she wants to thank those who have given her support to the matter she is speaking for. The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3421	I join in the thank you that Anette Trettebergstien presented via the president of the gallery. I also want to say that one of the reasons I mentioned these dissatisfactions that come as a result of these debates is that there is confusion in the government. As I said in my previous post during the previous case: We have some heads of state who are going ahead and are going to show the way, and when there is division among the leaders that Norway has to lead us as people in difficult value debates, when we see that they are split, then these dissatisfactions become easier to see. I wish we had a government that was behind this, all the parties, and said that we should fight this, and we don't want conversion therapy, we want a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3428	The representative Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3433	The representative, Vetle Langedahl, got us right. The Christian People's Party is not for imposed attempts to change human orientation. The representative, on the other hand, claims that Gruvan and I refer to homophilia as a sin. No, then the representative Giske must listen better to the debate instead of google stories and poems. We're not here as theologians. We stand here as politicians for a party whose program is clear and clear that people are infinitely much worth – completely independent of qualities, such as sex, ethnicity, legation, etc. More worrying, Trond Giske, is that you are calling for regulation of the preaching work in the religious communities as well. It will be a clear intervention in freedom of belief.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3438	The President must then remind the representative that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3443	It's not the government's job to characterize debates, so I'm not going to do that, but I hope we listen to each other – what we say – and believe that what people say is actually what they mean. It's so serious to stand on this pulpit. It has been clear that the Christian People's Party in the government did not choose to stand behind the letter I sent on 19 November. They disagree with the majority of the government. This is the case in a government sometimes — some lose, and some win. The Christian People's Party is clearly free to have a different opinion here in the Chamber today than the majority of the government has. But there's a large majority in government, to say it like that. It is not that governments send answers to questions that are so important and that are so difficult in government, unless the Prime Minister too is well aware that this has happened. I think it's a little strange that questions are asked about it. I notice the great commitment that has been. I read a sincere commitment to everyone because we have to do something in this whole field. I'm going to try to do what I can to help both get real law decisions here in the Storting, and that we have an effort in all the other areas that have major challenges in both the hate crime that many people experience, what many people experience with tough things they do in a day of school, the many experience that they don't meet a health service that takes them completely seriously, and the many experience internationally now, where we see that many of these rights go back. There are a lot of areas where the rights of people in society are concerned, which should also have been discussed today and addressed in a much wider debate. But I read a big deal with a lot of commitment to doing something in this field, and I see it as my task as the Council of State and responsible in this field to actually make sure that you get clear decisions in this room that also matter to people's everyday lives. So I hope and believe and have an intense desire that it might be a little bit easier than it seems when we have this debate, that when we get the real options for how we can regulate it, on the table, you have a simpler debate, easier things to deal with and decide on here. We're going to take care of that as quickly as possible, but I think it's also important that we do it according to the rules that this big business has laid down for governments to work with laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3456	I'm going to try to sum up a very busy and tough debate on a very tough topic as a case rapporteur. And that's very understandable, I mean, because this is about human life, about people who are present here today, who have told tough stories, and that leads to a strong commitment to the matter. I would also like to thank, as the rapporteur on the matter, for all the input we have received, the commitment that has come from those who have raised this matter, I believe, in a way that, regardless of what we think about the decisions we are making today, has at least led society to react. I hope it matters a lot. Then I hope that what is said from the pulpit of the Council of State votes. It is also important for the Committee and for the Storting. I have to say, I understand the confusion. I understand that it will be difficult for Stortinget when the Prime Minister's name and statements are withdrawn from a government party. It's disturbing. I hope that the positions also understand. That is why, in repeated speeches, we insist on clarifying what this investigation is going to lead to, and whether what is being said in this pulpit has government coverage. When I'm going to try to sum up what's the result, I choose to believe what's being said, and then I hope that the result of this case will once become a clear decision that says that everyone's right to love what they want, be who they want, for the whole community, that it's true in religious communities, that it's true in free churches. The Stortinget will ensure that it is reflected in Norwegian law. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation and for an exciting debate. I hope that those who have come with me from the gallery, too, experience that we, as the country's elected representatives, take their story seriously. I would also like to thank, through the President, for having been with us here today and for following this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3482	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3494	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 16 and 17, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 18, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 19-22, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to stop all further planning of ferry-free alternatives for crossing the Bjørnfjord in the Fergefri E39 project.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on the rights-attachment of the national TT system and the addition of the scheme to Nav.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a new high-speed investigation with the premise that high-speed rails are to be a multi-use concept for freight and passenger transport and that assesses a varied stopping pattern.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government that the concept selection inquiry for transport in North Norway only deal with North Norway and non-whole transport solutions.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3547	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to consider possible solutions such as a pass-by roof or an hourly rule coordinating with other Kristiansand/West-Agder toll projects for commercial transport which is subject to an excessive toll load.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3564	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks for an assessment of possible compensation schemes for air passenger charges on flights on the short-haul network.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a universal design plan for all Norwegian railway stations by 2025.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3588	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the cost reductions related to the OPS project rv. 3/rev. 25 Ommangsvollen-Grundset/Basthørnet in Hedmark is partly used to reduce the tolls in the project.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e3606	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-14, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a complete case about the future organisation of the State Road Administration.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with measures to limit cabotage operations for foreign buses in Norway, in accordance with the model from Denmark.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting with measures to strengthen the control of the public sector in the tourist market.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the registration of foreign tour bus operators in the VAT register from the first crown.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a detailed model for a digital transport register for all goods in and out of the country and the missions carried out in order to obtain a full overview of all actors and better control of infringements of Norwegian laws and regulations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the government in future budgets calls for a better visibility of the number of kilometres of new foot-and-mouth routes, including through urban growth agreements, involved in the draft budget’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an overall strategy to stimulate walking and cycling, assessing the revitalisation of national walking strategy and national cycling strategy. Work must be seen in the context of the green shift and public health work for increased physical activity in the population.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop planned increases in rail freight charges on rail.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to start work to put in place a night offer to Copenhagen and Germany.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a financing plan to resume the maintenance run on the railway by 2030.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue the subsidy schemes for the country’s museum railways.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with local parties in order to find a solution to enable the necessary deepening of the Mo in Rana Port to be carried out, and this is seen in the context of the construction of new deep water vessels.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow majority decisions in the Grand Duchy and to provide for the introduction of the Coastal Environment Bonus and to take this into account in the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to abolish a ploughing mechanism for county roads in connection with the rolling of the national transport plan, where, in accordance with a mandatory plan, the county may apply for co-financing from the State in accordance with the given criterion.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6214	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6233	During the debate, Mr Lerbreck put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 9 to 10 are replaced by the following: If the child dies during the benefit period, care is provided for up to three months after death. In the case of any labour income during this period, the allowance is graduated from the labour income. II The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2020.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6782	It is votered over I, § 9-10 new fourth paragraph. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote and the President thus has reason to believe that this will then be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6795	The remainder of I and II, III, IV and V shall be counted. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6809	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6823	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6854	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with professional expertise and civil society actors, is asked to prepare and come back to the Stortinget with a case to introduce a separate action plan to identify, prevent and address Islamophobia and Muslim hostile attitudes. The plan must include priority, concrete, measurable and new actions with the means to finance work, inspired by the anti-semitism action plan.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6887	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-11, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 11. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to integrate homosexuality, BDSM and fetishism into the Equality and Discrimination Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6917	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-10, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to undergo the initial and continuing training of teachers and child protection educators with a view to including the themes of norm criticism, minority stress, sexual health and gender and sexual diversity as a compulsory part of the public education offer.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in primary and secondary education, to include competence objectives on norm criticism, minority stress, sexual health and gender, relationships and sexuality where applicable, and especially in the KRLE subject.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government, in primary and secondary education, to include objectives of competence on what are positive sexual relations, demarcation, prevention of rape and acceptance and understanding of sexual minorities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an action plan for a commitment to competence in trans-tematics, sexual minorities and in-school relations, school health services, outpatient children’s and young people’s mental health, health services, the police, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and Child Protection.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to acquire knowledge of living conditions and mental health for asexuals, aromatics, BDSMs/fetishists, relational minorities, non-binary and transhumance in Norway and to propose measures to reduce the challenges for these groups’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a third legal gender category.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up the necessary proposals for legislative changes that strengthen the legal protection of trans-persons in the criminal law.» The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6967	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes to make gender-neutral toilets and wardrobes available in all new school buildings and public institutions.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e6984	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals to prohibit sex-normalising cosmetic interventions before the child himself is able to consent. [[which is not medically necessary]] The government is asking the government to strengthen police resources for the fight against hate crime. The government is asking the government to strengthen the allocation of LHBTI work through the organisations in the field, the LHBTI pot, in future government budget proposals. The government asks the government to ensure that all municipalities establish concrete LHBTI action plans. The government is asked to initiate an investigation into the introduction of a third gender category in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e7010	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to prohibit conversion therapy. The government is asking the government to strengthen the competence of regional professional communities for gender dysfunction and to provide measures to improve access to treatment provision for this patient group. The government is asking the government to strengthen the work of Rosa’s skills in working life, health care, school, kindergartens, police and asylum recipients, and to ensure that it is done systematically and nationwide. The Stortinget asks the government to ensure Skeivt Archive in Bergen continued operation in future proposals for state budget. The government asks the government to secure the magazine Blink continued operations and the possibility of further dissemination via the school libraries.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e7050	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-11.ana.ud563e7071	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
