ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e22	There are four permit applications, from the representatives of Ingarill Olsen, Else-May Norderhus, Michael Tetzschner and Ole André Myhrvold for leave from 7 October to 24 October – all to attend the 74th General Assembly of the United Nations in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm For More and Romesdal: Tove-Lise Torve For Oslo: Mats A. Kirkebirkeland For Eastfold: Elin Tvete Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e82	Before the debate starts, the President will refer to yesterday's debate, and the Stortinget is now continuing the throne debate, where the first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. It opens up a line change limited to 12 lines after the Prime Minister’s posts. The President will state that the twelve lines are arranged as follows: The Labour Party five lines, the Central Party three lines, the Socialist Left Party two lines, the Environmental Party the Greens one line and the Red one line. Furthermore, the President will state that those who sign up today will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e93	Norway is well off today. In the last two years, 96 000 more people have been employed and come to work. It provides security for the family economy and contributes to a sustainable welfare society. Through monetary policy, active use of the state budget and responsible social partners, we succeeded in limiting the impact of the oil price drop in 2015, and the prospects for the future are good. For several of our main trading partners, it is now different. In Sweden, unemployment has increased sharply – to 7.1 pst. of August. The United Kingdom is characterized by the battle around Brexit. And the risk of an even more acute trade war creates uncertainty all over the world. These are trends that can also affect the Norwegian economy and underline the need to continue to pursue policies that stimulate growth and investment in the private sector, as this government has done. In the long term, it is the ability to convert that determines whether we succeed in creating a sustainable welfare society even for future generations, because Norway does not escape conversion. This government has set the most stringent Norwegian greenhouse gas emission reduction targets ever. Now these objectives need to be further strengthened in the light of new knowledge. It will take a lot of us to achieve these goals, but we have to do that and we have to do it. And with a mature base, oil activity will no longer be the same engine for growth in the Norwegian economy as before. We must also expect a more offensive climate policy to have a global impact on demand, and the changes in Norway's largest industry will have a heavy impact on the Norwegian economy. That's one of the reasons why we need more and more new and greener jobs in the years to come. Norway also has an ageing population. In the future, an increasing share of us will be in retirement. Many will also need care and other forms of help and support in everyday life. It will put public finances under pressure. But not just that. It will also challenge access to labour, especially in some districts – and it is coming faster than many today believe. This requires that we use our resources increasingly efficiently, that we offensively use the opportunities to digitise, to release hands for better welfare services. We need fewer who administer and more who provide services to the public sector in the years to come. We also live in a time of rapid technological change. The job you were trained for may not exist 10 or 20 years later. Or education may no longer be sufficient after digitisation, automation and artificial intelligence have changed the workplace. Then we have to make sure to create a society where no one is going out to date. These challenges have some common features and some common solutions. I want to make four points that our society must master if we are to leave a sustainable welfare society to our descendants: We need to create more jobs. We need to qualify more for the jobs. We must venture to change. We need to ensure opportunities for everyone. Let me say a little bit more about each point and the government's policy for this. We need to create more jobs. We have to remember the basics. Over time, it is jobs and value creation that determine whether we have good welfare arrangements or not. Many countries around us envy our welfare arrangements. Most countries have much less developed welfare systems — not because they want to have them like this, but because they cannot afford to have them. Values must be created in small and medium-sized enterprises, by entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, before they can be used. Values and jobs are created in a tough international competition and a tearing technological development. For this reason, the government has placed great emphasis on a strong increase in the investment in research and industrial development. Since today's government took over after the red-greens, the appropriations for industrial research and innovation have doubled, to over 4.9 billion. kr. The sales budget has increased by 75 pst. since the government change. It reduces travel time and creates opportunities for economic development, growth and housing across the country. It builds up labour markets and makes it better for families. We have prioritised tax changes that strengthen the growth capacity of the economy, facilitate the transitions and create new jobs. Over the period 2011–2017, the annual cost to industry has been cut by an estimated 15 billion. kr by simplifying reporting, laws and rules. For 2018, preliminary calculations show that simplification amounts to 2 billion. And we're going to reduce reporting and bureaucracy even more in the future. It is not possible to increase taxes and impose new burdens on business today while expecting an equal number of jobs and equal well-being tomorrow. If we want a society where entrepreneurs are to venture, it must be allowed to fail and succeed. This government is putting a heavy strain on a business-friendly policy because it is absolutely necessary to create a sustainable welfare society. We also need to qualify more for the jobs. This is why we are now developing more flexible courses in the field of digital competence. These offers shall be developed in cooperation with universities, universities or specialised schools, enterprises and businesses and shall be capable of being combined with almost full-time jobs. We also develop a tripartite industry programme for sectors exposed to digitisation. So far, six projects in industry, construction and three health and care projects have been supported. Work on further developing skills policy will continue, and the government will present a key message on the lifelong learning of skills reform. And we must, as I said, venture to change. It is not that society stands still if policy stands still, rather on the contrary. Society is constantly changing demographic, economic, technological and not least international. In meeting these changes, it may be felt safe to stick to the old, but demographic changes mean that we need to continue moving resources from bureaucracy to service provision. Climate change means that we need to continue the transition to new, green jobs and lower emissions. Technological changes mean that we need to change the education sector to meet the needs of today's and the future. In these and a number of other areas, there are changes that require transformation in order for us to be able to continue to have a good welfare society. The biggest threat to the Norwegian model is that we are unable to convert in time. In that conversion, we need to ensure opportunities for everyone. We must recognise that conversion can affect people. It can create uncertainty for the job and for the future of the family. It can create the experience of someone carrying greater burdens than others. In France, we've seen the uprising from the yellow vests. In other countries, voters have chosen leaders who actively counter changes that are essential for the world to avoid dangerous climate change. In my home town, Bergen, voted over 40 pst. on the toll list in one of the constituencies. I am absolutely sure that most of them were as concerned about climate change as everyone else, and that they also want less pollution in their environment. Those of us who are concerned with tackling climate challenges as quickly as possible should be those who are most concerned that we avoid the setbacks we have seen in other countries. Traditionally, in Norway, we have been good at making changes when necessary. That's actually one of the reasons why we have the welfare society we have today. The government will continue to place great emphasis on ensuring opportunities for all as we continue to work on the transitions to achieve the objectives of increased employment, lower greenhouse gas emissions and more competitive business. Having a safe job to do is perhaps the most important answer when people are looking for security and well-being for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e159	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e164	The Prime Minister was in on the transition. It is a major and important task for Norway. We know it's coming, and it'll take a lot of us. The Prime Minister is concerned about opportunities for everyone. In addition to the numbers that we can measure, there's something that we can't easily put in numbers, and that's the trust in society. But what we know is that trust is exposed social capital, as it's called. It is deferred if the differences increase. When we see developments in Norway today, government policy, we see that differences are increasing. I think it's an underestimated side of how we're prepared to meet tough years in the 2020s, between people and between parts of the country. We have seen unfair cuts in social benefits and welfare services from the government. It weakens the community and increases the differences. There have been cuts in redundancy payments, cuts in disability towards retirement, more expensive commuting, cuts in housing support, increases in the maximum cost of kindergartens and, last but not least, cuts in the early retirement protection supplement and cuts in work clearance for young people. Does the Prime Minister think that increased differences equip us for the big problems we're going to solve together in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e173	As we also said in the Common Era, we are occupied with a society of small differences. We're engaged in a society that provides not least opportunities for everyone. It was also the title of the Right Old Principle Program. This was also one of the major clarifications we made in 2006: we need to pursue an inclusive employment policy that helps more people get to work and that helps people who have been parked outside of welfare schemes who do not function as a springboard to come back, but who become stuck in a network can come back to work. It's incredibly important. That is why this government is systematically working on what is the main response to the challenges of inequality — that too few have a connection with employment and that too many are outside. The biggest difference we have in Norway is between those inside and those outside the labour market. We know that the main reason why child poverty is growing is that their parents do not have a link with the world of work. That is why, together with a sound education policy, the working line has been one of the most important issues for cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e180	The Prime Minister says this comes from an old principal program. The point is that her tools are old. The government does not reduce the differences – the differences are increasing. There's an explosion in the number of failures. It is an exclusion from the labour market. The fact that we have low leave does not hide that too many people are outside – and the number is increasing. The handles for inclusion, competence and to get people involved don't work. The numbers we can actually measure, draw in the wrong direction in terms of differences. One third of employees have less advice today than in 2013. 10 percent of the people in this country own 60 pst. of the wealth, and the numbers are increasing. The question is, is it a problem that these numbers are increasing and drawing on differences? And is it some time when the Prime Minister would say that there should be some means in place to stop it? My claim is that this development will weaken confidence, weaken the opportunities we have to meet the major challenges that the Prime Minister describes in a way in the languages of the throne and in his intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e189	I believe that the most important investment we make to get more people to master their lives, limit inequalities and give more opportunities is to make sure that you can work, have income and manage yourself, and that you have an education system that ensures that people do not fall out of higher education with the labour market we have in the future. rusting the individual is the answer to the conversion. I agree that we need to make changes to the instrument. That's why we've done a lot. We have made many changes in Nav's ways of working. We're busy getting better arrangements, so people can get to work. For example, we have made changes that have helped to clear up the AAP queue after the red-green ones. There were many people who were parked for ten or more years on the AAP, although there was a four-year benefit. There has been a slight increase in miscarriage, but overall, there has now been a slight decrease in health-related benefits in Norway. There are several people who get an offer earlier to come back. When we're working on following up mentally ill people because they can be in work while they're being treated, there's a way to make sure you don't stay out because you get a hole in the CV for a few years. We fill those holes with activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e198	The people on the AAP are being cleared up -- that's absolutely right. A lot of them are being cleared up for social assistance. Many of them get cleaned up and don't get the help they need to get back to work. My point, which the Prime Minister did not respond to, was: When we see our numbers – and we can measure increased differences, income inequality, wealth inequality, where in the country the great wealth is accumulated, and what is the dynamics – is there some level or some other time where the Prime Minister will say that it is now beginning to become alarming, now is there a development that weakens the ability we have to go through major industrial change, to make sure that we can apply new technology, and to make sure that you can learn and have skills? In itself, inequality is married to conversion. The Prime Minister seems to say that the numbers are growing, and behind the facade of it she makes changes to the instrument, but it's old politics, and the driving forces are there. The question remains: is it for the Prime Minister a point where this inequality becomes a concern, or is it a natural matter? Right Torbjørn Røe Isaacen said we can live with differences, but how many differences can we live with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e209	We are concerned about the development of inequality. We've been saying that for a long time. But we're most concerned that the number of poor people in Norway has increased, that being out of work makes you chronically out of town. We are most concerned about lifting those who are at the bottom, those who have the greatest challenges, and working on the measures that in the long run help to prevent poverty from inheriting, which makes children and young people meet a school that allows them to raise themselves, not a school that reproduces the differences. Then we have to have a school that focuses on knowledge, a school that testifies that you have results and that has good teachers. A good teacher is what can cancel out the social differences. That's what all the research has shown. We also work systematically to get in early with job offers. We're the ones who have the new measures. It is we who develop IPS schemes that allow people with mental illness to be at work while being treated. We're the ones who make an inclusion table. It is we who are putting in place all the measures that now do something about children not experiencing poverty in the same way they did before, even though their parents are out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e216	It's a concern of the Prime Minister. We have 100,000 poor children. This policy does not produce good enough results. It should worry her more, but now to another topic, including from yesterday's debate. There the Minister of Defence got an important question that was not answered, and I will follow up. Lt-Gen Rune Jakobsen is head of the Defense Operational Headquarters. He's actually number two in the defense. He said recently: ‘We must renew the material of the Army and increase the fighting power and endurance. Now the Army is too small for the lowest task: to defend Norwegian territory until allied reinforcements come. [[...]] That's the first thing we have to fix." Is it the Prime Minister's view that the Norwegian defence, as it is now structured and organised, is not able to endure until allied help comes, as one of our foremost military states now says?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e229	Because the image against us – the competence, the technology – changes, we always have to measure the defence we have, against the possible threat that comes. That threat is changing. We have seen a Russia that is more self-conscious, that has more material equipment, that has more competence, that has more capacity. That means we have to rust up our defenses. That means we have to face it against new threats compared to what we've had in the past. That means we're adding up to an ambitious escalation of defense, as we've been behind for the last four years. We've filled up our stocks, we're rehearsing and training more, we've invested heavily. We've done all of this because the picture around us has changed, and because the picture we have to meet in the future is a different picture than what you had before. In the past, the red-green government had an idea that we didn't have to have a low defense against an invasion of Norway. We see that we need a defense to do that. That's why we're building up. So we know that in a construction phase it takes time to be consistent with and in terms of everything. It'll take time for the new equipment to arrive. Capacity goes up and down, but defence capacity in Norway is considerably better, and it will be even better if we continue to control defence development, because we prioritise this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e234	The Prime Minister does not answer the question. If she refers back to previous governments at the same time as she says that the situation is evolving and that we need to review, it is clear that we cannot respond to the defence and security challenges for Norway by 2020 and by looking back to the early 2000s. But it's interesting to hear the Prime Minister's assessment. We're waiting for a professional-military advice. We're going to review a new long-term defence plan. We have mixed experiences with the follow-up to the previous one, as the Minister of Defence now says, is an irrelevant document – the long-term plan that was agreed upon here in Stortinget. My question is: does the Prime Minister think it is a correct description that we are not able to endure today until Alliert's help comes, and does she suggest that the long-term plan that is now to be dealt with should close the gap so that we can say that we have that capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e241	The Chief of Defense's professional military advice comes on Tuesday, so what we've done on the next level of defense, I can't say much about it, because we haven't technically started working on the individual things. But our ambition and the ambition that the Right has always had is that we should be able to defend this country until we get ally's help. That's why we've systematically built stone to move from the defense that didn't even think it was a scenario, and that therefore didn't build for that scenario, but it takes time. We buy in the planes, as determined before we got there, and we spend a lot of money on it. We buy new submarines because one of the big defense threats against us is being blocked out in the Atlantic. We make sure to rust up with better surveillance aircraft – buy P8 – and we implement the escalation of the defence plan as it is. But we've done something else on the way. We have sailed more, and we have had a better presence in North Norway. We've used more material than what was used in the defense plan we now have. That's why we have to fill in even more to make sure that we keep the structure and build on the top of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e246	We've just been through an important local choice. For some reason, there were a number of issues that the government did not want to discuss in the elections, to which they were subjected after the elections. State Council Monica Mæland put it right: we need to have a new discussion on municipal reform – after the elections. Around Norway there has been concern about the closure of traffic stations. It was postponed after the election to discuss this. The discussion about the export cable for power, NorthConnect, was postponed after the choice. It was said that we should have the discussion about the power tax selection after the election. The investigation came on Monday. The Court of Justice Commission proposed the abolition of 38 District Courts. It was to be discussed after the election. For some reason, the government chose to do so. There have been strong reactions from many in the government parties that, according to the Court Commission, 38 District Courts are now to be closed. Will Prime Minister Solberg put aside the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e253	It must not surprise the head of the Centre Party that the government is working on matters that also come after a municipal election, and not just before a municipal election. That's how we work on things all the time. We're a government full of progress, we have new ideas and things we want to do for the Norwegian community. There will then be many different proposals which have not yet been finalised. I guess it's been like this under almost every government. We have received two public investigations this week, which are to be consulted and discussed. Both of these investigations have challenges, as they have been promoted, with the proposals that are there. And of course, it makes us look at how we're going to follow these up from the government. Among other things, the Court of Justice has identified some important legal security problems related to the structure today. At the same time, the way they're put up, probably too strong a grip. We need to take action to ensure that we have good-quality courts that are present throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e260	I can promise Prime Minister Erna Solberg a tough fight over all the centralizing ideas that the government has in all areas. I also hear the answer to the Prime Minister that she will be sending the proposal to the hearing and that the fight for the rights of property will now just have to start too fully. Another matter that came this week, related to the power tax committee, which will hit the municipality after the municipality. It sounds very technical, but we can make it practical: a municipality like Bodø loses 37.8 million. kr with that proposal, Sauda loses 63 million. SEK, Odda 91 million. SEK, Årdal 29 million. SEK, Rana 63 million. SEK, Rjukan 86 million. kr. That's how I could still have. It is a collection of funds from communities around Norway to the state register. Hanne Velure, a central board member in the Right, said the following yesterday: Saying that people are in Harmony is an understatement. Now the Prime Minister has the opportunity – here and now – to abandon the proposal and say: We are not sending this to the hearing – we are going to have peace around it; we want communities to keep that money. Will the Prime Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e269	I would like to stress that on the government side, we did not put down this sample because we had any plans to shift tax revenues between municipalities and the state. On the contrary, we felt a very broad desire that we should look at how the power plant tax system could help us actually get more power out of the power plants that are, that we could contribute to more efficient operation, more power – for which it is claimed that our tax system creates a restriction. I see, not least, that in the debate on wind power, the taxation of power plants is being highlighted as one of the problems of over-exploitation of potential capacity updates. That means that we don't plan to get the money out of the local government sector, but we have to work on how we're going to have a tax system in the future that helps us get the renewal and changes that are possible to get out, so that we get enough power out of the power plants we've already built out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e274	That's what a prime minister who doesn't want to abandon the proposal, and who doesn't take seriously his own central government member, who says that people are in Harmony over that proposal. And of course, Hanne Velure sees how this affects community by community, when one is to remove one of the pillars of Norwegian power taxation, which stood from the beginning of the 1900s. Another thing that Kjell-Børge Freiberg put at risk after the election was the treatment of the NorthConnect cable, i.e. an export cable for electricity. The societies that are losing most of the changes in the power tax range are the societies that are most concerned about that cable, that is, Saudi, Odda, Årdal, Rana – those that have a heavy, powerful industry that is totally dependent on us having a national power policy with a low electricity price, so that we can build industry and value creation in Norway. Can the Prime Minister now clarify whether the government sees it as a continuing goal that we should export more electricity from Norway, which we know will lead to high power prices? Or will she abandon that proposal, so that one can secure more industry, more value creation and activity around the whole of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e283	To start with the power plant tax. The power plant tax system we have is not from the beginning of the 1900s, it is from 1995 to 96. I worked on it in the finance committee here, and I guess I'm the only one on the Stortinget who's been through that power plant tax in detail. It's a humor in the Right around my interest in power plant taxation! The red-green government changed the rent tax in a way that punishes the development of power much more strongly, because they changed on the basis of the comparison we made between three parties on the civil side and the Workers' Party at that time – and the Senter Party did not agree with that power plant tax system at that time. But, just to say this: when I have said from this pulpit that we have not intended to rock the distribution between state and municipality, very many, including Hanne Velure, should hear it quite well and know that it means that there are no changes in the power plant tax system that can come in the future. In the case of the NorthConnect cable, it's a commercial project, which we're going to deal with properly. Properly, this means that the work of the Ministry of Oil and Energy will be dealt with before we conclude on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e292	One important reason why this government is so unpopular is that it is pursuing a policy of increasing inequality in power and wealth. The Prime Minister has two faces, found in two versions, one can say: a generous and understanding encounter with the economic elite and the richest in the country and a hard and unintelligible encounter with very many of those with the least power and wealth, for example. sick and poor. This is what we see again this week in the proposal on cuts in the minimum performance of redundancy payments for young people. A dramatic portion of what these people have to live for is gone. It comes at the top of the cut in redundancy money, which has already made dramatic mistakes and has caused very many people to be thrown into the social sphere. So the government says that this money is now to be used to follow the youth. This is a government that has had unlimited amounts of money for the most part, so this must be the most brilliant of all times. Was it not possible for the Prime Minister to find this money for the follow-up of sick young people without taking them from the sick youth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e299	That proposal implies that young people on the AAP will receive the same support as those on the introduction scheme, those who receive qualification support, those who are on other types of measures that will also provide life support while they are undergoing training and training in entering the Norwegian labour market. We think it's reasonable actually to do that, to say that if you need skills measures, you get support. At the same time, if you need health care in combination with the ability or ability to return to work, that's right. We use all the money we have released to actually follow the individual better, so that we can have more IPS measures, that is, the measures that allow you to work at the same time as you are being treated. Over 50 pst. Among young people under 25 years of age, mental challenges are less common. That means they have trouble mastering the job, they need closer follow-up, but what we do by letting them be parked outside, is make sure they come with such a big hole in their CV that they never come back. We want an active policy where people actually get follow-up, and that's what we've been up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e309	I wish the Prime Minister could find several ways to put this principle into practice, for example. that the upper class could pay for its own taxes. It would have been creative. This proposal we think is very bad, and I think the Prime Minister today shows how disconnected she is from reality to many of the most difficult in Norway. She's talking about clearing up the AAP queue, so the reality is that more and more people are being sent to the social, they're being given up instead of being followed up. She talks about children not experiencing poverty in the same way as before. So it's become more children growing up in poverty in Norway, and I think they're experiencing it exactly the same way, just as bad as before. And now she's talking about helping young people on the AAP by cutting their income. Another example: the government has announced that there will be a cut in the old age pension. It's strange how the rich are always expected to provide more if they get more, while those who have little, will provide more if they get less. What is the logic of that, really? Is it that sick people get better from getting poorer? Is that what the Prime Minister means?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e318	When I say that children experience that poverty less than before, it's because we've done a lot of action against the exclusion you experience when your parents have a bad economy. We've made sure that more people with poor finances can actually go to kindergarten, because they've got free babysitting. Now we're going to do it for SFO. We have made sure that they receive holiday offers, multiplied the schemes that were from the red-green ones on holiday offers, on leisure activities in the municipalities, on low-threshold offers, so that the experience of exclusion should not be there. That's what I mean by saying, and there I actually mean that we can hit our chests and say that we have. We're doing even more and we're going to do more of that in the future. Now we're working on the leisure card, which helps everyone to have an opportunity to get a leisure activity. We have an agreement with volunteering, with sport and with the municipalities that everyone should have an opportunity to do so, but we're going to make it even more accessible by providing new institutional approaches that help all children get a chance to have a leisure activity. This means that what's experienced – the subjective feeling that your family doesn't have a job, that it's hard to stand outside – gets smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e325	A few days ago, a total of seven million people in the world on the same day, for the same thing, and they were from the same generation, with the same demands on world leaders to tighten up climate policy, be brave, be more impatient. I listened with great interest to the Prime Minister's speech now. I noticed that the Prime Minister has also adopted a new trend in climate policy, which she shares with the Centre Party and Red, to warn against a more ambitious climate policy because it can lead to a weakening of the confidence of the voters – ironically, the same voters who have asked for a more ambitious climate policy for very many years, without politicians having delivered. I ask the Prime Minister to be very clear here, because I think she suggested that there are places in the world where government leaders and politicians who are responsible have not been re-elected because of a more ambitious climate policy. Then I ask the Prime Minister to clarify where this has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e332	I'm not sure if I understood the question. There are leaders around that experience going away from this, the ambitious climate goals that you have, and I think we can all see that. I have been sitting in the UN General Assembly listening both to the climate summit and to others and seeing both who did not have the word and who are the challenges. There are several countries now that should have had a more ambitious policy, and where developments are going in the wrong direction, and they have, for example, sign out of the Paris Agreement. This, of course, applies to the United States, which has signed up to the Paris Agreement. And then we also see that the uprising from the yellow vests in France is about the higher gas price. There are probably many other reasons for this, but it is usually a legitimate measure, based on climate action. What I'm concerned about is that we need to be able to create hope for the future and not dystopy also with climate change. I believe that Norway has a great potential to achieve its climate objectives, using technology, by making changes in behaviour, by gradually shifting towards even more taxation of emissions. I believe that the pace in the last part must take into account how people live and live in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e341	When the ambulance aircraft are not available for action, it threatens the safety of the population for life and health. In July it was under 70 p.m. availability. A week ago, six out of nine aircraft were on the ground, which were released for a short or longer time. This is why both doctors and nurses in the service have now reported concerns about the preparedness. So the operator, Babcock, said yesterday at the latest, that they had solved some technical problems with the planes, so that they would deliver better on availability. Later that same day, the news came that both of the Alta planes were on the ground and were discharged – from a commercial company that does not deliver in line with the contract, which may have fatal consequences for patient safety. Does Erna Solberg think that these breaches should have consequences for Babcock, and what consequences should that have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e348	The Minister of Health answered some of these questions yesterday, during his change of line. These include: is important to say, so that we do not make an experience of fear, that there have been no health consequences for patients of the changes that have been made. It is clear that the supplier here is responsible for delivering according to the contracts they have. It also means that if additional support measures are to be put in place to ensure preparedness, they will have to be charged to their company. We are concerned that it will be delivered on the contract we have. The air ambulance service expects it to be delivered normally from Babcock in the future, as the technical solutions seem to be there. It is said that there is an unstable element in the navigation system, which has now been replaced in all areas. The Minister of Health has always been concerned that there will be good preparedness in the north. So it's better to be in the air ambulance service now than it was before, because we've strengthened the air ambulance. But we have to expect it to be delivered on normal preparedness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e357	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e364	Six out of ten NHO companies lack staff with the right skills, and there is a particular shortage of skilled workers. Such a development weakens the ability and knowledge of industry, which in turn reduces the competitiveness of businesses. This undermines an organised working life and weakens the rights of employees to full and permanent jobs with good pay and working conditions. We also have the same development in many municipalities, how important welfare tasks are screaming for employees with the right skills in all permanent jobs – employees who can provide a good follow-up of children, young people and the elderly with a high quality. In the trade journal we can read that in 2035 Norway will lack 18 000 health professionals. Already now, there is a major shortage in health, care and care — estimated at over 12,000. We need more skilled workers for Norway to go around and for us as a society to develop good welfare services for everyone. The most important thing we can do is invest in the future, our children and young people. The Labour Party will provide young people with an apprenticeship guarantee so that young people can complete their education. By strengthening the offer for young people who choose professional courses of study, we will more fully meet the need for skilled workers in the future. We have no time to lose in this area. In 2018, there were over 29,000 applicants for apprenticeship, and 26 pst. did not get a place to learn. Today, almost 6,000 young people have completed two years of vocational education and are not able to complete their education because of the lack of a place to study. It's unacceptable. We could try to imagine that 25 pst. of all young people in the special study direction, may not be completed in the last year because there is no room. This is a major and unfair difference between young people who choose a vocational course of study and those who choose a study-specific approach. In this election campaign I have visited many schools, businesses and municipalities. Everyone I've met has given a clear message that you need to have a targeted effort and a clear strategy for how we're going to give young people a learning place, which ensures education for young people, and that you can meet the needs of society for skilled workers. If, for example: municipalities, county councils and businesses are united in following up such a guarantee for pupils by e.g. Meldal and Orkdal secondary schools, so that they can complete their education, will also gain a good competence in the new municipality of Orkland. This is particularly important at a time when we should fight against centralisation, and is strongly opposed to Højre’s desire for free schooling, which can help to eliminate important regional services throughout the country. Through an apprenticeship guarantee, we will meet the needs of skilled workers, increase the interest in the professions, reduce differences and not least ensure several thousand young people a letter. We need more proud trade union workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e381	There has been a lot to learn about this year's election campaign. I was so lucky to meet a fisherman named Arnt Jakob at Kaia in Nesseby. Arnt Jakob is a young man who has a strong desire to manage himself, without the help of Nav. Nesseby is located in the innermost part of Varangerfjord, and due to crabs there is little else to fish. Arnt Jakob was very clear that if the minimum requirement for full crab quota was raised, most fjord fishermen in Nesseby would have to throw in the towel and start walking on the Nav. Many of the 30 or so boats in Nesseby are too small to go to the coast. My hope is that we can help Arnt Jakob and other fishermen who want to manage themselves, by giving them good opportunities to get an outcome. Until the quota grid was introduced, there was full speed in most coastal fishing weather. One of my goals during the campaign was to see if it was still full speed. Were there all-year-old jobs on land? Let me make the conclusion first. In large, as well as in small, fishing waters, fish buyers could report a shortage of fish. There were so few fish and so unevenly distributed throughout the year that there was only raw material for seasonal operation. For example: Honningsvåg there was a shortage of fish. A manager told me that he had incoming orders, including: from Portugal, at very good prices, to which he had to say no. Another buyer had a shortage of fish, and it even though the former Hammerfest jets had a universal obligation to Honningsvåg. This manager could tell that the company that had the trawls never delivered anything to his company. The trust we gave Smoke when he got to buy the trawls with universal service in the north has been tragic for many communities. The promises that were then given were not followed up. Smoke sold the jets. Profite was the most important, not the many who needed work to get a decent life. The objectives of the fisheries policy are that our fish should be most useful to everyone in Norway. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries is responsible for this. My experience from tours in Finnmark is that the county is screaming for power of action and control, so that resources belonging to us also benefit the coastal community. Large parts of the fish landed are only within Finnmark as an intermediate station. Statistics or figures showing the number of tonnes in the country tell nothing about neither employment, for which this raw material provides the basis, nor where in the country the revenue from the harvest outside North Norway is at port. My most important job at Stortinget will be to influence, so that we can create thousands of jobs of fish along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e394	We need to create an inclusive society and take care of our administrative responsibilities, so that our kids can take over a society where there is security for well-being. Work is a prerequisite for a sustainable welfare society. It's a good development in the Norwegian economy, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years. We need to use these times to include more by focusing on skills, integration and inclusion in the world of work. No one should go out to date in the future's working life. We're now doing a high school, the students are learning more, and fewer are falling away. The record many people are now completing higher education – at the same time, we have to catch up with those who are falling out. We have therefore launched a powerful youth effort with an active commitment and increased follow-up. We are also reforming the introduction programme to integrate better and faster. Good Norwegian skills are the ticket into Norwegian working life. At Brustadbakeren at Sola, employees receive day-to-day job training and offers of Norwegian hours in the evening. The Brustadbaker himself, Umid, has, with his own experience, found a good model to integrate more people into the community, in close cooperation with the refugee section and Nav. Work provides well-being. Therefore, we are now implementing an inclusive approach, with the aim of being able to participate as much as possible in education, work and activity. The inclusion virtue is one of our most important projects. The State has a target of at least 5 pst. the new staff shall be persons with holes in the CV, or with disabilities, and since 2013 the government has significantly increased the number of permanent job placements. Part of the business community is on inclusion duty. I hope several people will join us, and we also need the municipalities in this work. In Bergen, I recently met Elisabeth, Beate, and Stine, who work at the Filling Valley Hospital. The job satisfaction was clear, and the managing director hopes that several nursing homes will follow, because it has been a success. Several employees in uniform provide safety and better quality for the residents. The value of work is well-being for everyone. Together with Elisabeth, Beate and Stine, there are now more than 50 people who have received a job through the ‘HELT MED’ project who work to include more people with developmental disabilities in the ordinary working life, in close cooperation with employers who see the value of diversity. It is not politicians and hubs that lower the threshold into working life and employ; it is employers who do. The Brustadbaker and the Filling Valley Hospital are good examples of that being possible, and that it actually pays off. The right will continue to promote good policies for an inclusive working life, and we need business, state and municipalities on the team. In this way, we ensure a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e417	The municipal and county elections clearly showed that people didn't want any more of the government's policies. The government can only deal with its petty cuts for those who have the least, and with a policy of increasing diversity and smaller communities. The great popular commitment that came against windmills made an impression. People felt discouraged – but we need more pure energy. Therefore, I had great expectations for the power tax selection, which would make good suggestions on how to increase the speed of more climate-friendly energy – for a non-discriminatory treatment of wind and water. But what came? The proposals for the power tax selection submitted on 1 October only exacerbate the situation. The suggestions did not trigger a new kilowatt-hour with pure water. On the other hand, it breaks with the social contract. One goes loose on the ground wall of what has been a success story: Norwegian hydroelectric power development and pure energy. Local communities shall be compensated for the obstruction of large areas and for the interference of nature. The conversion of the tax system to an increase in natural resource taxes may, for some to the right, be very lenient, but the proposal is a strong centralisation of the income, because then the government will take in all the income and offset it against other taxes and the transfer of income. Then the income is allocated to the whole municipal sector. Thus, the compensation scheme for natural interference has been exempted from the areas that are affected and can easily be changed afterwards. The concession power regime has been in place for 110 years, while a change in the natural resource tax can be made from year to year – according to the government’s will – so it is much more vulnerable. The main challenge for the power industry is the lack of incentives for upgrading and extension of power plants, and a loss of local and regional acceptance for power generation and power generation. A collective industry points out that the problem is the rent on land – a rent that the government of Solberg has increased evenly in line with the fall in corporate tax. The proposal from the selection is to increase even more – with a new 2 percentage points – up to 39 pst. The Prime Minister could have scraped this here today, but he chose not to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e429	Fortunately, we have a functioning democracy in Norway. We have strong welfare systems, high standards of living and good communities. We have low unemployment, and we are doing well throughout our country. From more teams we hear that the biggest threat in the districts is not attracting enough labour. The government conducts a responsible policy and spends the good time converting Norway for a future where we can no longer lean back on a great oil fortune. Then it has been quite strange to hear the Central Party's announcement of politicians who stand up and take responsibility. When the Central Party representative Arnstad yesterday claimed that the government is in charge of planned structural changes that have the sole aim of centralising, I think there is reason to respond. That we disagree with solutions and choices is okay, but it should be unnecessary to cast doubt on the intentions behind the policy in that way. Norway faces major shifts — fewer jobs per pensioner, rapid digitisation, migration and, above all, climate challenges. Then, of course, we need to make changes, because it is not that structures that were established at a given time are necessarily the best or only right to ensure the service provision in the future – whether it is about municipal structure, police or other service areas. The right acknowledges that there have been many reforms at the same time, and that is demanding. The centre party has created a reality where there is city towards land and man against man that applies. The Labour Party has announced that they will make fewer compromises across the political landscape, and it is a pity when the challenges are so great that it really requires cross-political cooperation. To a completely different point: In yesterday's debate there was a press release from my home state about the E39 between Kristiansand and Ålgård. It's part of the government's great journeylift. In a little while, five sites between Kristiansand and Ålgård are in progress. 4000–5000 workers will work directly at the sites, and 10,000–12000 are likely to be indirectly linked to the projects. With a requirement of 7 pst. apprentices in the facilities provide great opportunities for young people in our region. This is a vitamin injection that will be noticed. The road is becoming safer and more environmentally friendly for the transport of people and goods, a larger labour market is being opened up, and the region is being linked to the best — yes — for actually both city and country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e442	The goal for us as elected representatives must be to continue building society by facilitating the creation of value and growth throughout the country. Finnmark is rich in natural resources and has a varied business life, but will always need more secure, profitable jobs. The world is still dependent on oil and gas. Then it is gratifying to see that the petroleum industry is increasing its activity in the north. The Barents Sea is an important area for future oil and gas activities, but production must take place in a sustainable way that develops and strengthens local communities without distorting existing industries. Petroleum industry has been through a period of reduced activity and a sharp decline in oil investment over several years as a consequence of the oil price drop. It is therefore very gratifying that Equinor has found solutions to develop the Johan Castberg field off the coast of Finnmark. With an expected investment of approx. 50 B.C.E. This will represent a significant share of the investment on a Norwegian base in the coming years. And with an estimated 30-year production period, it is expected that development will contribute strongly to the socio-economic environment. It is now urgent to come up with solutions to transport oil and gas from existing and future findings in the Barents Sea to the market. Such an infrastructure solution must not be imposed on a single operator, but must be a joint responsibility where authorities, current and future operators must contribute to the establishment and thus build and further develop local communities in North Norway. A strong population expansion is a prerequisite for continued Norwegian oil extraction. Equinor has to honour its promises for 2013 to build a landing terminal for the oil from the Johan Castberg field. The decision of the majority of the population that, at the latest, several producing fields in the Barents Sea should be built a landing terminal on the Weidens must be followed up. It is gratifying that Norwegian enterprises have already secured important contracts and that, among other things, the areas of competence. in Harstad and Hammerfest are strengthened, but building a terminal on Veidnes in the municipality of Nordkapp will still be socio-economical. The oil has to land. The Minister of Oil and Energy has been challenged several times in this Chamber. Governments have gone a long way in their answers, saying that a terminal is what will be best for Finnmark and North Norway. But I am surprised that the Council of State is not more impatient in response from Equinor regarding the investigation. If the Council of State so wishes, it shall press and ensure that there shall be a terminal at the Weidens, workplaces and support for the petroleum industry in the north. Everything else will be a great disappointment. If the oil goes by bending into the sea, it will neither build society nor legitimacy for future oil and gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e457	The main objective of the government is to ensure sustainability for well-being, both in the short and long term. One of the most important things we do is to ensure adaptability, to keep the economy in order and to facilitate growth in the private sector. It provides increased stability and security for families, businesses and the community. Having a job to do is the most important security and well-being. Fortunately, the government's policy works well. There is solid growth in the economy, more jobs are created, unemployment is record low across the country, employment is increasing, and many industries demand professionals. Then it is especially gratifying that record numbers are now completing high school. That's the key to moving on to work. At the same time, we need to include more people in the labour market and to make arrangements so that even more people can work longer than today. Norwegian economy needs more legs to stand on. We're going to convert Norway into the green shift in such a way that green policy does not generate red numbers on the bottom line, either for households or for businesses, and we're going to do it in binding international cooperation. We're going to build on the industries that are spearheads in the development of new technology. On the way to the zero-emissions society, we depend on all industries that create growth and values that can pay for well-being. Therefore, the oil industry will continue to have a central place in the Norwegian economy for a long time to come. In a more serious security policy situation where democratic values are under pressure, we must take greater responsibility for our own security and security and contribute more to the burden-sharing in NATO. The tense, unpredictable situation in our neighbourhoods is very worrying. Cybertraps are increasing to an extent, the neighbor in the east has rusted up and displayed a more aggressive behaviour, and power is heading straight ahead in Europe. Developments in Asia are increasing in new forms that also affect global balance of power and stability. We see new forms of organised influence activities. Xenophobia through the Internet and social media is a phenomenon we have to take the most seriously. If we are to be able to prevent negative impacts of ‘fake news’, propaganda and disinformation that are not just aimed at young people, action against it must be taken into the general emergency response, into the way in which we build the total defence, and into the school – to train critical senses and build resilience. We must not at least continue to strengthen our defence. The messages from the head of the Defence Operational Headquarters are serious. In the process of a new long-term plan, we have to show that in practice we are fulfilling the NATO obligation to use 2 pst. by 2024, and preferably before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e472	The throne gave a good insight into the fact that this government is ruling with a stylish hand. It is Norway with lower unemployment and a good business life. The government has seen the importance of the need for the development of the public sector in line with society. That is why several reforms have been implemented. It is easy that changing course is painful, as a reform often does. However, grips that may be painful, often very necessary to guide development in a proper and better direction. Police reform is an example of this. But it doesn't help anyone who chooses to talk down on a most necessary reform. It only contributes to creating unrest and insecurity. Is this really what the Center Party means? Do they really think everything was better before? Do they really mean that the police should not take into account all the statistics, that the worst and most uncontrollable crime is no longer happening on the streets, but at home in our own living room, in terms of net crime and identity theft? Police reform is just helping us raise more knowledge in this area. I fully agree that police reform is not problem-free, and yes, it is a comprehensive and demanding reform. The Minister of Justice has shown that a reform is never completely flawless and that he is already evaluating the police reform. Grabbing and adaptations shall be made. Now we're going to take a step further to another area of justice that's very important in today's society, and where we've seen a serious development, that's recrimination, that's grown, that attracts very young people. It is then important that we bet on prevention and, not least, strength and focus on criminal justice. It is very important that criminal services have the means they need to get a good interdisciplinary job in the reconciliation period, to develop and reverse a wrong path for the prisoner. It is also important that a better system be put in place to follow-up the prisoner — also interdisciplinaryally — in the post-constitution period. Societal economics is the focus on criminal care the only right and right. Yes, more stringent and comprehensive penalties are important, but the compensation must not be a storage, but an opportunity to change, and the compensation must contain content. In order to cope with this, it is essential that they are provided with the necessary support pillars and resources, both through the atonement and after the atonement. I'm sure this government will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e487	It's the workers who build our country. Yesterday, the Minister of Transport used his speaking time to talk about government reforms. There was nothing about how they were going to solve the challenges people have in their everyday lives. The Labour Party has pointed to four major challenges: district, climate, collective provision and accessibility. So our priorities are to give our county roads a boost. We want full broadband and mobile coverage. We want to give priority to racial and flood protection, and we need to improve collective provision, especially around our cities. We also want to strengthen road safety. But the most important thing is to take seriously those who build our country and who feel the leverage of centralization and privatisation on our bodies. The competences they hold must be safeguarded and developed. It's become a scarcity resource. That's our biggest challenge in the future. In meeting the trade union organisations, the trustees say that there is now a frustration, uncertainty and despair in the sector they have never experienced before. They're experiencing a lot of competence. In road planning, tenders are now being announced on both national and county roads. Planers are missing, or it is cancelled due to a lack of providers. There are no conductors, train drivers, sleeping cars and multiple units in the railway. We experience daily signalling errors, by train stop and bus for trains. In the case of driving licences, there are now some places up to one year waiting time for take-up – sensors are missing. In road maintenance, employees are now waiting for termination – they are not transferred. Railway cleaners experience the same thing as defence cleaners: rights and security disappear. The planning time for new projects has been longer, not shorter. The state road system is being talked down, and the toll settlement has created full confusion. Municipalities and counties no longer know what responsibility the state will take for collective provision, climate goals or what peculiarities they will actually have. The districts and the transport sector need more predictability and long-term planning. They must be listened to, but privatisation and centralisation are not the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e498	The languages of the throne and the state of the kingdom can in many ways be perceived as unsound. It may be a government privilege, but a picture is drawn of a country and a situation that is almost free from challenges. I don't agree with that image, and the map doesn't match the terrain. What the government didn't pay much attention to is that the differences have increased between people of the year that have passed. No attention was paid to the fact that we have witnessed a historical contraction in the abortion law. We've got shocking numbers telling us that students' mental health is alarming. People have been pushed from redundancy money to social assistance and disability. We have witnessed a critical situation in the air ambulance. We have been told about birth defects, and we have been told that 77 municipalities in Norway do not have a functioning follow-up service for birthing women. The examples are so many, and they hit people's lives and everyday lives. The consequences of government policy mean something, and they hit unfairly. I want a government that puts people's challenges first, and there are so many to take off. I'm concerned if the government has lost the ability to see the challenges of ordinary people: the parents who are concerned about the son who is a scalker, the elderly who need security, the families with young children who have daily mastery in logistics, the one who fights against the system and is his own patient coordinator, the one who stands without a job, the ones who are harassed because they don't fit in, the one who wonders what life will be like when he's finished at the drugstore, and the young couple with part-time contracts that don't get into the housing market. In common, we have to set up for each other. The Labour Party has policies and measures to make everyday life easier and, not least, safer – because we do not prioritise more money for those who already have the most, and because the most important thing in life is the most important thing in our policy. The picture is so much more complex than the government painted in the throne. It does not imply trust. How should you be there for people when you don’t even recognize the problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e513	Yesterday, I heard Trond Helleland say that the economic base of the municipalities is now the best. Then he obviously knows little about the tough challenges and the evil cuts that meet very many of the country's new municipal governments when next year's budget is due to be put in place. A number of new, painful cuts also come in the health sector — in hospitals, in ambulances and food services — when government funds specialist health services year after year. At the same time, the permanent crisis is unsolved. The Labour Party has proposed comprehensive and important measures, while the government is doing too little — and is spending too much time. Half of the country's municipalities are struggling with recruiting permanent workers. I agree with the President of the Norwegian Medical Association, Marit Hermansen, that the report that came a month ago on the fixed medical system is a sad reading. Now the government has to take real action. The situation is serious, and the challenges cannot only be left to the municipalities to deal with. I would also remind you that the Labour Party in the alternative budget for the current year was worth 700 million. kr on the table. Elder care must be optimal, not as cheap as possible. That is why we in the Labour Party say no to the commercialisation of care. We want more employees with better time, facilitate activity and offer healthy and good food. More than 77 000 people have dementia in Norway, according to the National Association for Public Health. The number will double in the next decades if we fail to find treatment. From 1 January 2020, i.e. in just three months’ time, municipalities are required by law to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia. At the same time, the State grant scheme, which is integrated into the framework funding of municipalities – frameworks that should have been significantly larger, as proposed by the Workers' Party year after year. From next year, municipalities that have invested in this come out to some extent much worse than today. But first of all, people who are hurt need such offers, which can be hit. For some municipalities in my home country, Uppland, this means reducing significant revenues, several million dollars, which gives a lot of positive for many denments in the city and district. The grant scheme was established in 2012 and provides money for both establishment and operation, on which the municipalities have based their activities. Here, the State with this scheme has in reality strongly encouraged municipalities, over several years – by 2019 at the latest – to focus on creating meaningful experiences and an active everyday life for demente, building up under self-esteem and helping those who want to do so to stay at home for as long as possible. This is also about the need for relief for those in need of care. The municipalities that have been good at building up such good day-to-day activities and have been active users of the grant scheme are now at a disadvantage. I fervently ask that the government now do what they have the opportunity to assist those who have gone ahead here. A good tip is a better community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e528	Climate challenges and greenhouse gas emissions do not have any borders. Global challenges need to be addressed by global countermeasures. This is why a climate agreement has been concluded in Paris, and Norway must therefore be involved in addressing climate challenges both internationally and not least at European level and at home. The EU ETS is the climate action that is in many ways the most important and most effective, but also the most under-communicated. We have to do something about that. It is now that this arrangement really begins to work. It is from now on that it is becoming more expensive and expensive to emit greenhouse gases. Being green is really starting to pay off. The government delivers green policy every day. Billions of money are spent on clean seas, sea winds and transport conversion, to mention something. And although the state and the municipalities can facilitate a green shift through both targeted support schemes and purchasing power, it is the private business that actually develops and delivers the services that meet our climate requirements. An already Norwegian green industry is the key to getting into port with our climate targets. Listening to the Center Party in the climate debate is quite interesting. After a national meeting with internal concerns about the Central Climate Policy, I heard a parliamentary leader who spent quite a lot of his speaking time on climate change. Could it be a green shift going on in the Center Party as well? No, it wasn't. Norway shall be part of the EU-wide allowances system and its response to emissions, and the Centre batch shall not have any of them. As the only party in this room, they voted against climate cooperation. The fact that Norway, with our large power resources, can be part of the European mains power grid and thus provide green power when wind does not blow on the continent, no, they shall have nothing of it. The centre party is – rightly – that party on Stortinget with the worst climate policy. The climate challenge is a world championship that only says well enough, and then we need international cooperation and a government that continues to deliver on green policy – a policy that reduces emissions, strengthens public transport and sets new green technologies. Finally, it is a paradox that a party in this room that refers to itself as an environmental party is also one of the most skeptical parties in the EU. The fact that nations join together also gives the least-developed countries the opportunity to take part in and implement the green shift. The right is the guarantee that international cooperation will continue to develop and that a stronger relationship with the EU will continue to be Norway’s policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e543	Norway is a fantastic country with traditionally small differences and great opportunities. But also something that's amazing, can stop being that if you work hard for it. After six years of Solberg's government, differences have increased and opportunities have been reduced. The squabble in the last time between those who sit in government has been mildly said to be a embarrassing sight to be spectators. There's been a lot of commitment about what you think about your partners in government. I wish that the same commitment was present from those who are governing the increased social differences that are growing in our country. Never before has the number of poor children been higher. Today, more than 100,000 young people are growing up in poverty. Three out of ten households have less advice today than the last Workers' Party crashed. Four out of ten children living in poverty have parents who are at work. In Norway, we have what we see in the United States – people who work but who still live in poverty. The recipe of this government has been: Give the richest millions in tax cuts, and those who have the least to pay for it. Those who make over 10 million. kr this year has received a tax cut that is 100 times larger than the minimum wage since 2013. At the same time, the price of kindergartens rises, while the child supplement to the disabled is cut, the holiday money for the unemployed is removed – even the support for those with burns or multiple disabilities has been cut. This week it continues: Youth is cut in redundancy pay, the disability is cut in their pension – those who have the least to be motivated by less, and those who have the most are motivated by more. I can't say that Norway is a radically different country after six years with the Right and the Advance Party in government, but a little after a while our country is being changed. They change Norway through unsocial cuts in the welfare state and privatisation – increasing taxes and taxes on ordinary employees. Since the Right Party and the Advance Party took over the government power, they have introduced taxes on job travel, tax on eating at work and taxes on losing their job. This government is constantly showing an impressive imagination when it comes to new taxes and taxes for workers – all in order for the richest to avoid having to pay taxes like me and you. Norway still has to be a fantastic country. This is best achieved through small differences and stronger communities, but Norway needs a new majority led by the Labour Party in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e554	This summer I spent a lot of time traveling around my home state, Sogn and Fjordane, and I have, among other things. visited a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a meeting that has given me so much energy and an intense desire to tell: on Highsoft in Vik, as a developer of diagram and statistics tools, and, among others. has 80 of the 100 largest companies in the world on the customer list on Bano on Sandane, which produces new bathroom solutions for hospitals and hospitals, solutions that will reduce the burden on caregivers and improve the quality of life for users on a large-growth tourism industry on a strong and forward-looking fisheries and maritime food industry on the bet on fruit, berries and green, where farmers from all over the country are involved in establishing a stronger and more efficient common package and distribution system on Fjord Base in Florø its focus on climate and environment, which facilitates new, exciting green workplaces on Evoy AS, which has developed full-electric propulsion systems for boats in the professional and leisure segments and which in summer set the world's fastest powerboat I could have kept going on in the infinitesimal. These are venture-to-think businesses, which see opportunities and develop workplaces for the future. Enterprises do not see borders, either on land or at sea. They develop and produce goods and services as demand from the Norwegian, European and/or world markets. The county exports for 23 billion. kr, and over 70 pst. go to the EU/EEA area. Export enterprises represent 17,000 jobs in a small district with 100,000 inhabitants. They are many, they are important, and they depend on the existence of the EEA Agreement. It is the safe and attractive workplaces that provide the basis for busses in the districts – not if one has half an hour or one hour to the nearest passport office. Enterprises do not demand more taxes and taxes, on the contrary, and not once did I hear the words «regional development funds» mention. On the wish list were better and safer roads, the development of broadband, less bureaucracy and the focus on means of research and development. In a state where the word «unemployment» is almost absent, a good educational provision with opportunities for learning life is important, and not least the focus on professionals and apprentices. Students in Sogn and Fjordane top most positive statistics on education, and I'm incredibly proud of that. In other words, what is requested is more of what works, more of what the Right Party and the Government Party deliver. Is a red-green chaos policy that cracks in every direction, the answer for the districts? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e591	The Workers' Party's message about stronger communities and smaller differences is about people's lives, about everyone having a job to go to, a payroll to live off, a place to live. It also includes those who have short periods of residence in Norway. 2018 figures show that 55 pst. are in work or education after completion of the introduction programme. That means 45 pst. are not in work or education. The numbers don't say anything about how much work it is about. If you work one day a week, you get into the positive statistics. No one can live off that. In order for much more of our new neighbours to manage themselves, we need to focus on skills reform, targeted vocational training in the introduction programme, and we need to strengthen the local economy. In our alternative state budget for 2019, we launched a comprehensive and well-worked competence reform of 1.2 billion. kr. It was divided into two main lines: learning at work and learning on the way to work. In our competence reform, the social partners, the Nav, the regions, the municipalities and the health and education system shall jointly provide people with the opportunity to acquire proper and job-qualifying competences. This may be the strengthening of basic skills in reading and writing, digital skills or the completion of higher education. Worker’s Norwegian must be the basis for language training in the introduction programme, health Norwegian, construction Norwegian, etc. The municipalities are responsible for the introduction system. While the Workers' Party will strengthen the municipalities by 3 billion. kr, the zero-week stoppage of the right-hand government for municipalities is the weakest in 15 years, affecting the work of successful integration. This is the elephant in the room. It is not the will it stands on, at least not in labor party-driven municipalities. Oslo is a good example. Courageous politicians think new and get results. The successful Helsfyr model, in which language and vocational training take place in parallel, should be raised to national level. How long will municipalities wait for a government to see that prioritizing projects that get people into work is profitable, both for individuals and for society? As the Prime Minister said in his intervention in the hall today: Security for work is absolutely essential. It'll be exciting to see on Monday whether the government will strengthen the municipal economy, or whether it's just empty words. Only with a robust economy do municipalities dare to invest in projects where newcomers are quickly qualified for work so that they can support themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e603	After hearing the opposition, Norway may seem to be a country where most things go wrong. The Labour Party says that the direction is wrong, that Norway can do better, but the right thing is that the Labour Party can do better, for which direction they want to turn the country, is unclear. It's a risky way they're going. Meets a reform of the least resistance, sweeps out the working party. I would warn against gambling with a business that has an investment desire, a historically low unemployment rate, historically low waiting lists for hospital treatment, historical commitment to culture and climate-friendly transport. The UN Commission on Sustainable Development issues an annual report that ranks the world's happiest country. The six factors on which the union is based are life expectancy, freedom, generosity, social support, gross domestic product per capita and level of corruption among government and industry. Norway tops this list, but this list does not support the opposition narrative. We have Youth Data Studies that show that youth is well-satisfied with life and thrives. Norway is one of the world’s best countries to grow up in. But we still have challenges to solve. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that child poverty is increasing, especially in large cities. My hometown, Drammen, and Oslo are at the top of the statistics on the number of low-income families. The immigrant families are overrepresented in this statistics. Right wants children growing up in low-income families to have the same opportunities as everyone else to live a good life. Work and education provide the best opportunity to get out of poverty, and that is why we have launched an inclusion scheme to provide the best opportunities for newcomers to participate in the labour market. That's why we want to put in place a system of activity cards for all children, so that they get a free activity this week, whether it's on the sports track or culture. That is why we are highly committed to quality in school and kindergarten. Reading and writing is the best prerequisite for getting on with life. Therefore, we use funds to provide children in low-income families with the opportunity for kindergarten, school leisure and summer holidays. This is the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e614	I've drawn myself, not to keep a polemic post about who's greatest or best, I've drawn myself to notify a change in one of the Workers' Party's proposals. That applies to proposal No. 36, which is to be voted on later today. The proposal is about asking the government ‘In an appropriate manner, explain how to ensure that children with Norwegian parents who are in Syria come home as soon as possible, as well as the situation of Norwegians who have joined or worked with IS, the status of the work on judicial settlement in the region and the basis of their arrest and prosecution if they come to Norwegian territory.’» That proposal sets a deadline of 11 October for such a settlement. This deadline would like to be changed to "as soon as possible". We make this change because, through the debate in the hall and through the contact with the other party, we have a hope that it will be able to gather the parties across other dividing lines in this difficult matter. It is important for us in the Labour Party to stand by the principle that Stortinget does not deal with individual matters – not these Syria matters, not child protection, not police, not justice. At the same time, we understand that there is an unusual and stressful situation associated with the life and health of children in Syria who have Norwegian parents, and we therefore want to have a distribution to ensure that the government does everything that is justified and appropriate to do to save the lives of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e630	In the Roman Empire, the government said: «More immigrants must be included in the labour market through better integration. We also need to include more people who are out of work for other reasons. The Government will strengthen its work on the ‘Learn Lifelong’ competence reform and follow up on the commitment to integration and inclusion.’ I think the whole Stortinget agrees with the government in achieving the goal of a working life that is better to include. But I have to say that I am very concerned about how the government wants to achieve this goal. In August, the Government of the Ministry of Knowledge sent proposals for a new law on integration, the law on integration, to be consulted. The proposal includes a proposal to reduce the programme duration of participants in higher education to three to six months. The hearing does not open up any extension for this group. The consequence of this is that integration is weakened by the fact that these people do not have enough time to learn the language and society before they lose their rights. As part of the government's inclusion quou, the government has entered into several commitment agreements with manning companies during these days. I'm worried about how this is going to affect the situation of those to be included. These are people who are already in the hands of the lua. They depend on these jobs in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. These are people who do not know the Norwegian labour market model, where a strong trade union movement and cooperation between employers and workers have given us a decent working life with security and rights for workers and high productivity. The crew industry undermines the Norwegian working model. It employs workers with substantially fewer rights than in regular working life. Uncertainty about precarious employment with few rights is reinforced when the most vulnerable groups are sent there to work. The number of jobs in the manning industry has increased dramatically in recent years. For health and care only, Norwegian municipalities rented more than 1 billion. kr in 2018. We can't have it like that. Because at the same time, the employees work hard to get a firm and full job. I refuse to take it for granted that we have it like this in Norwegian employment. I think it's time to think new, think forward. Therefore, SV will throw the commercial employment agencies out of the labour market. Temporary workers are just going to be temporary workers and not temporary workers. We want safe jobs and secure jobs for everyone. I'm really worried about what kind of society we get with more people with little or no rights. Workers with a migrant background are strongly overrepresented among the tenants. This isn't random. We have to bet on giving people the opportunity to evolve into permanent jobs. That's the way it is for everyone. Then, on behalf of SV, I would like to draw attention to a slight change in one of the proposals. In the proposal of Torgair Knag Countysnes, the word ‘signed’ is replaced by ‘completely negotiated’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e652	Norway is facing major shifts, but we get very little drag help in this room by a fragmented and little cooperative opposition. Economic growth is solid, companies invest more, and in our short time in government, more have come to work all over the country – in urban and rural areas. But we're facing challenges that we have to address. The work of the future will make new demands on skills, and the labour market will change. The head of the NHO believes that North Norway is misunderstood in the south. We don't need help, we need people. Almlid says this with a background in the competence survey launched by the NHO this autumn. There, North Norway and Oslo provide information on the greatest need for competence. Nord-Norway has record low unemployment, and business reports that the biggest challenge they face for future growth is enough competence and people – and people with the right skills. But if you were to listen to the Labour Party representative from Finnmark in this room, you wouldn't think anything positive was happening in the region. As top trustees, we should be careful to talk down our own region. We need to talk it up, and we need to be proud of the business, the peoples, the educational institutions and the projects that will provide future development and growth. We have to make sure that we are able to deliver competence to a business that is screaming for people. Then it is Right’s solutions and policies that deliver the best results. We provide a policy that stimulates more people to take up apprenticeships, through a government tendering policy that calls for apprentices. Several complete secondary schools after this government introduced the absenteeism limit. We introduce skills requirements for teachers, and the right-hand government ensures that there are more teachers who receive continuing education, so that they have the opportunity to renew their skills, because we know that the job they do every day in the classroom and every time they meet the student, is what is important and crucial for that student. And we're going to make sure that competence reform, learn all of our lives, so that fewer people will experience going out to work. The games in opposition here at Stortinget are actually the most powerful in the training field in North Norway. They have rapporteurs and county rapporteurs and are responsible for 13 years of youth education. I wish we had an opposition with backbone to stand in some of these difficult reforms, because they are absolutely necessary, and they are going to deliver good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e665	Freedom of individuals and responsibility for each other is the cornerstone of Left-wing policy. Having a job and income is about the freedom and dignity of the individual and being part of the community and participating in society. Education and working life are among the most important Community arenas we have, and the right to work is a human right and enshrined in the Constitution. Nevertheless, not all people in Norway have this right. If you come to Norway as an asylum seeker, you can apply for a temporary work permit, but you have to wait until you have been through an asylum interview, which can take a year, you can't be called 'dublins' and you have to have passports or ID papers in order. This means that many people are in Norwegian asylum centres and want to work, but are not allowed. This is a particularly important challenge for the so-called paperless and unrecoverable asylum seekers. Many of them have been in Norway for a long time in a difficult and unexplained situation. On the Red-Green Guard in 2011, a tightening was made that many asylum seekers who had until then had a work permit and tax card could no longer work legally in Norway. In 2016, the government made an decoration of the law that made it easier to obtain a work permit. The left was the driver of this legislative change that was made in 2016, and is pleased with it. However, the primary position of the left is that we must go even further and give paperless and unrecoverable asylum seekers the right to work. Work is essential for inclusion and integration. There are many people and many organisations who are very committed to this. I am pleased that the LO has been very clear for many years that asylum seekers must receive a work permit, and in these days there is also a legal case against one who has given paperless asylum seekers work. It is an explicit objective that more people should return quickly when they are denied their asylum application. The Left agrees, but at the same time we believe that we must ensure that those who wait a long time for an answer to their application are allowed to work while they are waiting, and unresectable asylum seekers must be allowed to work legally. These are people today in a locked life situation without the right to basic health and social services and the ability to support themselves. The left considers that there is a need for legislation that gives unrecoverable asylum seekers access to ordinary and legal work. This is about putting people in front of systems. It's about human freedom and dignity. For the Left, people are always more important than systems. That is what we will continue to work for internationally, nationally at large and in government and in all local policies. I would like to end by quoting Bishop Emeritus Gunnar Stålsett, who recently told the public that he had hired an asylum seeker without a work permit because he believes it is an obligation to help other people. Steel kits say this: «Compassion is actually a political opportunity».
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e682	Work is more than a job to go to, it's community, mastering and own income. This is why the Right wants to increase the proportion of persons employed and to include more people in the labour market. The employment committee was reduced by the government to identify barriers, barriers, schemes and benefits that need to be changed in order to succeed. Before the summer, the expert committee delivered its recommendations, which are now followed up by the government. The selection showed, among others: for young people aged between 18 and 24 receiving redundancy benefits to have 30 pst. higher median income than peers. 70 pst. of the young people on the AAP have mental or mastery problems, where individual job support or the qualification programme could be better for those who lack formal competence. But on the AAP they get more paid than an apprentice, more than a student with loans and scholarships, and $68,000 more than most people think is completely acceptable income protection for young people of the same age in the qualification programme. The Employment Committee therefore warns that today’s system has a bad impact on young people. Therefore, the right considers that it is appropriate to harmonise income protection with the qualification programme while ensuring better action and closer follow-up to help young people get into work and activity. When the Workers' Party and SV announce that they will go against them, I believe they are doing this group a solid bear service. What is good income protection for a 19-year-old without work experience, and who may still live at home, becomes a poverty trap when the options do not pay off in the short term, it is anything but social to pass on young people into social welfare and social security. Of course, miscarriages that themselves cannot affect their income through work should be protected from the unfair nature of the pension reform. Therefore, a screening supplement was added to the disability when the pension reform was adopted, it was to be evaluated as we saw how the reform worked. Now it turns out that even without the supplement, the pension is about the same as those who have worked until about 65 years. So one addition will give them more. Then we believe that it is not right to extend a scheme to another year's coal so that those who are at work get lost. A guiding principle for the welfare state of Norway is that it must always pay off to work. The workline ensures that we can have good arrangements for those who, for various reasons, cannot work, but also here, the Workers' Party and SV have announced that they will go against them. I believe it is wrong to compensate for an unfairness that has not occurred. No matter how much evidence proves that existing schemes are not functioning properly, changes are stamped as non-social. The left side is consistently willing to expand and erode social arrangements, which I think is not only unsocial, but also undermines our common well-being over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e693	This debate shows important dividing lines in the development of society in two key areas. In terms of employment, we need more jobs. We don't want to settle down just a little over two out of three - 68 pst. - I'm working. It's too bad we can do better. If we settle down with this level, it means that groups stay out of work. It's bad for the individual, it's bad for all of us, the value creation is getting lower and the social security costs are getting higher. That is why we need a much more targeted policy to get vulnerable groups into the labour market than the government provides. All the words about inclusion virtue, integration promise and doing something for people with holes in the CV have to be followed up with action. It will be added to the Workers' Party's alternative budget. The second important dividing line is about the view of differences. The government says in the guise that it "will keep a society with little differences and trust between people". However, the policy pursued over these six years does not support this objective. On the contrary, the differences are increasing; there are large tax havens to groups that don't need it, while groups that are struggling get it tighter. The housing allowance is cut, cut in the child allowance for the disabled, cut in student grant schemes, curtailment of daily allowances, curtailment of redundancy payments, curtailment of termination benefits. There are many and powerful forces that are moving towards greater differences. These forces must be counteracted by a fair distribution policy. The taxes on wealth reduce the differences. A redistributive tax regime reduces differences. Pension from the first heads would reduce the differences. Many people say that society is changing, and that's absolutely right. That is why we need to change our policies. But there are some forces that need to meet with politics so that they don't change society in an unwanted direction. The representative Sverre Myrli pointed out yesterday that we are now challenged to simple answers, yes or no, to large and complex issues. The room for nuances, not to talk about doubt and conversation, is about to be gone. It's disturbing. The major challenges we face – climate change, migration challenges, the fight against poverty internationally – are not solved by simple rhetoric. But we live at a time when rhetoric seems to take on policy – simple slogans for concrete solutions. Look at the United States or Brexit in the United Kingdom, and also here at home. There's glamour for the political illusionists, who can pull a hare out of the floss hat. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is Otherwise, the debate is marked by the fact that the government parties talk most about their own party, little about the government, but most about the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e710	There has been a silent revolution in school, it was in a comment in the evening post this summer. Norwegian students read better, expect better, and record many complete higher education if you see the evolution from the Knowledge promise to today. But we still have students who fall from, still social differences that go into inheritance, still students with the right to special education who meet unqualified teachers, and we still have too low ambitions in school for some students. If they had the opportunity, they could have learned more than they do today. And there is then no more important task than a good school to ensure small differences, as both the previous speaker and the representative Gahr Støre demanded this morning. This may be precisely why it surprises me that the Labour Party has become almost completely invisible in the school debate – it is almost so we have to start calling them on a milk carton – because they have barely mentioned school with one word on this pulpit, both yesterday and today. And the only time the Labour Party takes the floor is when they can once again declare that they have taken a U-turn in key school policy issues – and when they want to prioritise the big money for everything other than what we know is the most important thing for students' learning. We heard from them when they were at the border of absence – so for, and then against again. We heard from them when they wanted to introduce a reading, writing and calculation guarantee, and then they suddenly chose to vote against prioritising reading, writing and billing. We heard from them when they supported the government's teacher's vow, and when they suddenly declared in the election campaign that, like the SV and the Center Party, they would abandon the most important steps in the teacher's vow. They'd throw character requirements 4 into mathematics to get into teacher training, despite the fact that it strengthens the quality and, not least, the implementation of teacher training. They would reject the requirement that teachers who teach Norwegian, math and English have depression in just Norwegian, math and English, despite the fact that the teachers' skills are the most important thing for students' learning. But what may be most worrying to me was that just before the summer we got new numbers that show that there are big differences between the municipalities, that a boy who drops his hands to Mom and Dad and goes into the schoolyard with a little bit too much ransack, depends on which class he gets into, which school he goes to, which municipality he lives in. And the Labour Party's answer – what was that? It was criticizing the government for publishing these figures, because it's kind of stigmatizing for the municipalities, for the local politicians. I think it's much more stigmatizing to let students go to school year after year without getting the follow-up they need. We must never forget that the school exists for the students, and if they are to be given the opportunity to learn, we must focus on the most important thing: teachers' skills, good professional communities, good management and not least basic skills. And then we equalize social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e723	We get an increasingly climate friendly car park and many emission-free buses, but none of them are produced in Norway. When we build over 60 electric and hydrogen ferries, we begin to approach self-production in Norway. We even produce fishing boats with electric motors and battery power. But there has been one type of boat that has not been allowed to produce without fossil fuel, namely fast boats – and that is the stork. The high-speed craft emit four times as much CO2 per passenger kilometre as the aeroplanes. The government's green shipping message says we have to do something. Through money from the government's Climate Change Scheme, Trøndelag and ten other county municipalities have challenged the Norwegian and international maritime industry to develop high-speed, high-speed, zero-emission, high-speed boats that go beyond 30 knots and are at the same time emission-free. Since 2017, the maritime sector has been challenged to contribute, and they have provided an answer. The task was then to see if the quick-boat connection between Trondheim and Kristiansund could become emission-free. It was a real pleasure to be present when five groupings in boat design and boat construction presented their results on 3 September at Stjørdal. Almost everything was Norwegian. Everyone answered yes to the question of whether it can be done with zero-emission speedboats, and there were exciting presentations where they showed their concepts. This is world-class innovation, innovation and engineering. The county councils can now use their purchasing power to order emission-free boats at a fair price when the tenders for the routes are to be published. Enova, the tool of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, has agreed to contribute money and expertise. This contributes to the green shift in Norway, and in particular this technology can be sold to other countries that have many speedboats. Globally, several thousand speedboats spew out exhaust and pollute the air. Green fast boats can become a Norwegian export industry – an industrial venture where the green shift leads to green growth. I can also mention another practical area in which county councils, municipalities and state have to cooperate, and this is in connection with urban growth agreements. You still have to think globally and act locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e738	After listening to the debate these two days, I said, with a feeling that there must be two very different peoples we meet when we're out traveling in this country. From the government's side, it sounds like everything's right. Now, the choice might mean that not everyone was right about them. The second thing I said is that reforms must have one at all costs. Society is changing, and that is why reform is needed. What about asking yourself in what direction you want, what you want, and what the challenge is – before you start all these reforms? Maybe most people would have been a little bit more satisfied with that changes were made, if they knew why and what was the goal one would reach. Is it the case that the government party is unable to find out what to do, and so it is easier to initiate reforms? It seems to me that when the reforms are implemented, it is important to leave either the Directorate of Police, Education or others responsible for implementation, so that they themselves do not do so. The police reform works well, we get to hear it. There are almost two police officers per thousand inhabitants. What's the local situation when we travel around talking to those who sit in the middle of it? In my area, the police coverage is now down to 0.6 per 1,000 inhabitants. The police are not given the opportunity to take preventive action. Matters they know – where in fact there are some known perpetrators – must be left behind, for they are told not to take matters if they are not allowed to land them. We're not going to have any leftovers, as they say. Then it's better not to do anything. As a result, they are not allowed to do preventive work; they are not allowed to engage in youth environments that are developing, whether they are drugs or other things. One of the advantages we have had in living in the districts is that the police have had the transparency and the ability to take on this work, but now – because there are challenges in some areas, challenges in some things that an absolutely should address – one should lose that ability to do good preventive work. Then we get to hear that business doesn't ask for public services. Yeah, business out in the districts asking for public services. They want broadband, they want a functioning mailbox, they want passports and certificates, to be able to get work approval for their seasonal workers in the vicinity. They don't. When it comes to transportation, it's like we've never spent that much money. In Hordaland, no new project has actually been launched during this NTP period. Then people feel that there's no connection between life and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e750	It may well be, as the representative Nils T. Bjørke said before me, that the opposition and government have met different types of voters. In the Left, we have noticed at least that there are many climate change growers out there, and they have set a new political agenda for the last six months. Future generations require – fortunately – action. They want another inheritance. The left is on a layer with future ones. That's why we work every day to change the rules of inheritance for the world. It's worth making green choices. Contaminants have to pay. Therefore, we have contributed more than double the CO2 tax, from 229 kroner in 2013 to 508 kroner now in 2019. Less and less avoids a CO2 charge. This year the government has also established a separate zero-emission fund for industrial transport. A new aid scheme for electric cars led to the sale of more cars in eight days in the first days of the year, than it was done in the whole of last year. Enova has granted the first grant to liquid sea wind – SEK 2,3 billion. kr. Nysnø has got 500 million. kr more in capital injection this year. They shall contribute to investing in smart, forward-looking solutions to reduce climate change emissions. Carbon capture and storage are definitely going their way, despite the opposition trying to create a picture of it taking too long. This year, money has been allocated to drilling a new well, and we're totally dependent on it to move on. We can't go on chords with security. The Northern Lights project, which also belongs to carbon capture and storage, is doing a very good job, and all Nordic countries are now joining in on a possible new Nordic industrial venture, which also benefits the climate. Climate change rate was established in 2016, on a proposal from the Left. More than 225 million are granted in 2019. kr for actions out there, where people live, and where it is absolutely necessary to make those changes. Municipalities and counties now use it and want even more money. But we also need to adapt to the climate, because there have already been major changes. We remember Skåk last year, Jölster this year, the dry summer last year – 2 billion. It just cost us. The constant floods and new events that are coming cost us billions. Insurance payments are increasing. We also need to spend money adapting to a more wet and wild climate that becomes less and less predictable. The challenges are there, and we have to be careful to give to the measures that allow us to survive until we find the right measures in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e769	Not everything is perfect in Norway today, but there is a lot going very well, and I think we should be happy about that. One of the things that pleases me the most is that a lot in Norwegian school is going very well today, and that we are doing so much to make Norwegian school even better. The students are more present, they learn more, they complete, and fewer fall away. Even more joyous is the fact that even more people now choose professional subjects. The government's commitment to the profession and the vocational teacher's lift bear fruit. We're going to be happy with that, but of course we're going to continue that effort. Professionals are and will be important for the development of the new Norway. If we are to be able to meet the challenges facing Norway, we need even more professionals to choose. Even though we keep setting new highscores in the number of learning places, we have a challenge to get enough space for everyone who needs it. However, the Workers' Party's proposal for a national apprenticeship guarantee is not the answer to that challenge. This will be another worthless guarantee that will not give young people greater security in order to complete their education. The representative, Asphjell, from the Workers' Party, was himself concerned with a much better solution in his previous post here today, a solution that is already used in many places, namely binding agreements between the parties to the business community, municipalities and county councils, based on local conditions and local needs. That's what we need more - not even more worthless guarantees from the Workers' Party. In the case of apprenticeships, too, the reports from all over the country and from many industries show that companies do not get the help of the apprentices they need. The picture is clear: if you choose a profession, you get a highly sought-after competence, and you want very good opportunities for a good job when you are fully trained. Here I would like to send a message to all those who are willing to give the young people advice when they are going to choose education: I encourage everyone to join in giving the professions the reputation they deserve. We see that the status of the professions is on the way up, but it is now high time to truly re-establish respect for the professions – not in the interests of the professions, but in the interests of the young people who will choose, so that they can make good choices, have faith in the dreams of their own future and respect for their choices. To get there, we need adults who care. Professionals do not close any doors. You have all the opportunities for further education, to start on your own. It is with professional skills that you really have choices for the future. People with a professional background are often at the point where changes in society take place, and they will definitely play a major role in the green shift. One thing is certain: even in the face of an uncertain labour market in the future, we will always need professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e784	A municipal and county election has just been held in Norway. Over 2.5 million Nordics voted in the county elections, and over 2.7 million voted in the municipal elections. When one listens to the debate in the Chamber here and the speeches from the government parties, it seems that things are going well in Norway, and that everything is going to continue as before – despite the fact that all the government parties have gone back at this local election. People in rural and urban areas have had enough of the centralization policy and the overrun with which you have been met by today's government. Even more important than the return of the four parties to the election is what you have discussed locally, and what the local voters have agreed to. It is local politicians who have made choices about the future and development of their communities, their municipalities and their counties – and then they are overrun by politicians in this room. The most eloquent example of this is regional reform. In Troms and Finnmark, a clear majority of the elected elected representatives from the new state have gone to the elections on a guarantee that they will work to reverse the merger. The fact that those politicians have received a clear majority and a clear mandate from the people through the local elections does not make any impression on the majority in this Chamber. One says that now one should be persevering and stand firm on the reforms. The same thing applies to the Week. This week a platform was presented for the new red-green majority in the Vikings, who say clearly that one is opposed to the merger, and that one will send an application for reversal. Norway's largest country has been forced through, against the wishes of people and people elected, without having been asked in advance. Now the voters have their verdict on that project too, but the majority of people say they won't listen – they know best. Such behaviour shows a lack of respect for local democracy and election judgments. However, if the bulk of the population is not willing to listen now, we should at least make sure to work specifically to ensure that the majority of the population is different in two years’ time – and we will ensure that we bury the regional reform once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e797	I'm going to take over a little bit where the representative Gjelsvik left off, because I want to share some thoughts with the president – evaluate the election a little bit and some trends. This is something I have done for SV internally, but I trust, of course, that my thoughts will be here in the hall. There are obvious trends that have an explanation, and I see three major trends: The differences in society have clearly increased, it shows the indices, and it sees people. Those who have pointed this out most clearly, and who have shown that they want to do something about it, came forward at the election, among other things. SV and Red. Those who have increased the differences through tax measures and others, the government parties, went back. Climate problems and the loss of natural diversity have grown. The understanding of this and the protests have also increased. The parties who want to take much greater action in this field, and who have put forward a bunch of proposals that respond to this, have grown in the elections – the SV and the Greens are the most obvious. Those who stood on the opposite side, who have not taken or wanted to take a strong enough hold, the government parties, or those who have been a little lukewarm, as the Workers' Party, have gone back. The centre-periphery, which the representative Gülsvik was inside, the city and the country – district policy – is a third dimension. How could it be thought that the strong centralisation trend we have experienced — all measures such as close police reform, the closure of traffic stations, passport offices, etc. – and the local and regional reform should not have consequences in the electorate, such as: coercion mergers? Could I perhaps mention this deformed smoldering, Viken? It was the SV and the Center Party that stood most strongly in the district struggle. The center part was obviously the best in the rhetoric, but both won and walked forward. The centralists, the government parties, and those who were lukewarm or came too late, the Workers' Party, for example, lost. Well then, there were other features of the election and therefore of our society. I didn't mention the Toll Party at the beginning here. That all understood was one of the main reasons for the decline of the Progress Party – they had been talking to two tongues for six years. In addition, they deleted with another problem: the flow of refugees had decreased. There was important fuel in the rhetorical machinery of the Advance Party. Something has happened in political Norway — climate strikes, greater climate debate and climate awareness to a greater extent. Much indicates that the struggle for natural diversity can be just as strong. This also means that both blocks of policy must take this on board, but in particular a change of government after the current political status in the country will lead the red-green block much more in the green direction. There will be exciting times ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e812	The President is in doubt as to whether the term 'unformed smoldering' is to be regarded as parliamentaryly acceptable, but we must let it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e817	As I was in my post yesterday, unemployment is now at the lowest in many years. Growth in the economy is at a good pace. Norway is on track. Norway is doing well, both in central and, not least, in the north. We're setting conditions for growth in the north. The representative of Ingarill Olsen was concerned that the planning of fishing ports in our common home country has stopped. It is not a reality that those in charge of the Finnish county council are familiar with. Senior advisor Eirik Selmer at Finnmark County stated so late last week that the last few years have been very positive in terms of developing the fishing ports in Finnmark. He was very pleased with the Finnish mark-out with commitments to gunners and, not least, with the increase in design resources, which means that they have many pot-ready projects ready when the fishing ports are transferred to the new regions at the turn of the year. The representative Olsen of the Workers' Party was also in that the election in Finnmark was a protest election. Yes, we agree. Then I would add that the Right had a marginal decline in digestion and the Advance Party almost the same result in 2015. So yes, the election in Finnmark was so absolute a protest choice – the voters protested and would not have the Labour Party policy. This showed the election result, where the working party was almost halved – from 45.9 pst. to 24.9 pst. in the northernmost region of the country. The representative Adelsten Iversen of the Centre Party was concerned about the fishermen and an increased activity requirement to participate in the quotad king crab fish. One of the main principles of king crab management is that king crab fishing should be a complement to traditional fishing and not a main fishing activity. The activity requirement today is NOK 200000. That means that a fisherman must fish species other than royal crab for 200000 kroner in order to have access to the full king crab quota at a value of nearly 400000 kroner. Then you can ask yourself what is their main fishing? I share Adelsten Iversen's desire to create 1000 more jobs in Finnmark. Then what the representative had in mind is the need for policy-makers, not politicians, who have as their primary objective the reversal of most political decisions and developments. The representative had several issues in the election campaign that would have put Finnmark decades back in time. The most controversial proposal would have led a large share of the quota out of Finnmark with the consequences it would have. We need to get the debate on the right track, and I hope that the Workers' Party and the Centre will discuss constructively how to create new full-year jobs in the agricultural industry and increase value creation in the north. In conclusion, I would like to ask my colleagues from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party from Finnmark to stop talking about the situation in the northernmost countries of the country and to speak about the possibilities we have. We must continue to facilitate growth in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e834	For the Workers' Party is professionally important, and I am proud to come from Buskerud, a state that for the third consecutive year is best in the country on the placement of apprentices. Buskerud is now also best in the country when it comes to those who leave their apprenticeship and go to regular jobs. It's hard work for a long time. I am proud of Buskerud who has done this, proud of the fact that Buskerud is a Workers' Party leader and has managed to get a good and committed cooperation with the partners in the business community, because it is absolutely essential to succeed in this. LO and NHO have been very cooperative, and commitments have been made. This applies to the county council, which undertakes to dimension the school offer in such a way that professionals actually have an apprenticeship at the end of their completed two-year schooling, and to the business community, who undertakes to take them in. We are doing well in Buskerud. When you've said something about what's good, because there's a lot of good going on in this country, it's also the opposition's role to tell about things that aren't so good. I have to get into the police. In my municipality, Ringerijke – I live approx. 3–3.5 miles north of Hønefoss – it was a car accident on Monday afternoon at E16, a serious car accident, where the police of course pushed out. At the same time that the police were at this accident site, there were people who started and had a very serious fight in the town of Henefoss. Then I wonder, where are all the policemen that are being boasted of have come? Where are they? The police didn't have the resources on Henefoss to be able to deal with the two events at the same time. And this was a normal Monday afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e843	Differences in power and wealth are increasing. In just one year, we got 33 billionaires in Norway, while ordinary people are hanging out. 130 occupations had a real wage drop last year, among others. bus drivers, health professionals and kindergarten teachers, to name a few. One in three employees actually has less advice this year than when Erna Solberg took over. This shows that Norway’s best interests, namely strong communities and small differences, are confusing. Youth sees it. A previous speaker from the Right-mentioned Young Data Survey with a positive sign. But there we can also read that young people feel more afraid of the future than before; they feel insecure about whether they get established, get housing and jobs. When wealth accumulates on fewer hands than before, more power also accumulates on fewer hands than before. For money is power; ownership is power. It provides an opportunity to govern society according to its interests without one being given that power in elections. That's why we have to level out differences, not reinforce them. It is good both for justice and for democracy. Perhaps the worst is that, in addition, child poverty increases year by year. There are over 100,000 children now growing up in a poor family. That is why it is so fundamentally unfair that the families that may have the least, namely families receiving social assistance, do not get child welfare. It's actually the only need test of the child's back we have, but it's a need test away from those who have the least. The reason is that most municipalities in Norway still count child benefit as income when calculating social assistance in their municipality. When the Christian People's Party boasts of finally having increased child welfare, but at the same time blesses that the municipalities can take the majority from them with the least, this government's policy for those families becomes quite hollow. But fortunately there are at least local people elected around the country who see this injustice and do something about it. In municipalities according to the municipality, SV has now had a positive impact on stopping the shortening of social assistance. Only now, after the election, SV in 19 new municipalities have been given a say in political agreements or decisions to keep families with at least the whole of their child’s rights. That means that already 8 000 more children will have the entire child's pension, and yet we haven't finished negotiating in many places. So where the Christian People's Party has failed in government, we are clearing up the municipalities. However, it is that the address you have should not mean anything as to whether or not you can keep the entire child's pension. That is why we believe that in 2021 a new number of large numbers should ensure that all children, all families, retain the entire child’s health – no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e856	Many have claimed that this government is paralysed by internal conflict and disagreement about choice and direction, that the Solberg government is cracking and not fulfilling promises, and that there is bourgeois chaos. But in one area, this government must have boasted of a wholehearted and systematic contribution that has produced results: they have consistently and systematically worked to tear down some of the finest things with Norwegian society, namely equality and the desire for social cohesion and justice. When it comes to increasing differences in Norway, this government has delivered above all expectations — and not just the differences in general, but especially to the most vulnerable. Every year the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family presents statistics on child poverty in Norway. There are over 100,000 children living in poverty in Norway, and differences are increasing. In the first ageing period of the Solberg government, the number of poor children increased from 8,5 pst. until nearly 11 pst. This means that approx. 25 000 more children were poor in 2017 than when Erna Solberg became prime minister in 2013. I don't know if many people at Stortinget know what is going on in families where you can't afford to send your children out for leisure or to send their children food to school, or have to save for weeks if the children are invited to a birthday. I grew up in a family where my parents had to choose whether to send one child to the SFO or the other in the nursery. It does something about self-respect, and it gives children – who should have exactly the same prerequisites for success – a completely different starting point. In these days, there is the World Cup in leisure. I am sure that many would find it terribly unfair if the Ingebrichtsen brothers started at 1500 meters tonight with a 200 meters supplement. We wouldn't accept that. But we accept that more than every ten children in this country start with such an addition to the starting line in life. Oslo tops the statistics. In this city, almost every five children are part of the statistics on child poverty. I've read it carefully several times. It is almost free from mentioning the challenges of poverty, except that it points to immigration as the cause of the problem. I record that it has also been tried in the past to blame for the child poverty of immigration to Norway. Of course, it is obvious that people with little baggage from completely foreign countries, who stand on the bar when they arrive, have a much worse starting point than others, but the problem is not that these people are destroying our statistics; the problem is that they are not getting out of poverty traps. In Oslo, the Red-Green City Council has presented its budget, where they, among others, offer summer jobs to 1500 young people permanently, continue to bet on kindergartens and introduce free ACS for 17 000 children in the city from 2020. But this is not a responsibility that can be pushed over to the municipalities. A force must be taken against child poverty. It's not an expense; it's an investment in a future human dignity, and an investment in people who are going to be positive contributors to Norwegian society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e869	It's nice to be back after a nice summer and campaign and hear all the great posts in this room. One of the things I'm most fond of this summer is the rosary, where the Foodora cyclists demanded a good and organized working life in their relatively new type of job. Erna Solberg said earlier today that the job one is training to today, maybe not there in 15 years, and the Prime Minister is quite right in that. The work life is going to change. The Prime Minister also said that we must be vigilant, and I fully agree with that. Therefore, it is natural that working life changes, and very welcome that new industries grow, but a changed working life does not, fortunately, have to imply impaired rights for workers. In this way, it is very bad that the liberalisation of the work environment law, which the government threw itself over just after they took over the red-green ones, is now in the process of being fully effective. From 2015 to 2018, the number of temporary jobs has increased sharply, from 47 000 to 63 000, a growth of 34 pst, and of those with temporary jobs, half are under 35 years of age. There's a whole bunch of young people who have an entrance to the world of work with unforeseeable predictability. And the fact that the growth of temporary jobs is so significantly higher than the growth of other jobs proves that hiring from the personnel industry replaces the fixed jobs. I am disappointed that our government does nothing to counteract this. I worry that profit and efficiency are the only factors you need to have as a currency when you measure what's a good working life. For me, predictability is a value, predictability for both employees, who should know in advance when to work, or how much money that ticks in in a month, and predictability for those whom the workers encounter at work, patients and users, who become familiar with those who take care of them and who know who comes to work. We also know that with fewer permanent employees, the proportion of trade unions falls. And what saved us this summer – saved us from getting food delivered to the door by underpaid cyclists? Well, it was the Joint Association and the cyclists that they organized. When we've been running election campaigns for people, not markets, and for the many, not for the few, it's turned on, and SV is now going to run a bunch of municipalities and help those municipalities become good, responsible employers. In order to be able to work throughout our working life, we need the government to also get on the job and work to ensure that regular jobs are the main rule in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e884	Normally, I live in the real world out there, in District Norway. It is both exciting and enjoyable for me to be here and hear the left side tell about how we feel in the districts – how bad it is, with massive centralization, a lot of unnecessary reforms, the depletion of the municipalities, and much, much more. In my simplicity, I thought it was going well, and that we had it very well in District Norway. The most important thing to be able to have living communities and growth throughout Norway, and the best means of centralisation and relocation, are profitable jobs. The industry in the districts consists of small and medium-sized enterprises that create large values, with good business owners who dare to take chances of developing their business. If someone wants to take that risk, it is important that we lower taxes and taxes that prevent businesses from creating more and hiring more. By removing the inheritance tax and reducing the corporate and wealth tax, the government facilitates more local, Norwegian ownership. Growth in the mainland economy is good, employment has increased and unemployment is on record 2.2 pst. – on the frontier of many enterprises struggling to provide sufficient labour. Eight out of ten new jobs have come into the private sector, which in my view is healthy. On the right, tomorrow's jobs will be created by focusing on knowledge, research and innovation, and we are betting on the development of new climate technologies. We need to secure jobs through safe economic governance and good business conditions, and we need to protect the EEA Agreement. I have worked almost half my life in the competitive industry, and I get a little scared when several of the parties on the left are opposed to Norway's main trade agreement, which allows companies to sell goods free of customs duties in Europe. Putting this deal into play is an extremely bad idea, especially for us in the districts, where 75 pst. exports go to the EEA territory and this will mean that more enterprises will have to move the output abroad. The business community knows that they need to change and improve every single day to keep up with development. It must also be done by the public sector and the municipalities. For this reason, the Right and Government have ever started the biggest modernisation of the public sector, providing an ever better community economy and an ever fewer ports on the ROBEK list. It is important to continue the municipal reform in order to ensure that Norwegian municipalities are able to provide services that citizens expect. In my region, Fosen in Trøndelag, we have gone from seven to four municipalities. It's good and good, but in my view, one municipality would have been the best way to transfer resources from administration to service and to become a powerful, comprehensive unit. It's good to have a Dream Team. Local and regional reform allows for more tasks to be moved out. It will strengthen local democracy and give less state control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e900	Earlier today, the Prime Minister was challenged by the increasing differences between people in Norway and finally had to admit that the right-wing government is also concerned about the development of inequality. The government emphasizes social sustainability in the throne, which we know will be important in the decade we go into, with an enormous transformation as a result of climate change and automation, to mention something. A prerequisite for large shifts is that we have confidence in each other, that the differences are not too large, and that we are safe and feel included. That's why we in the Workers' Party protest so strongly when the government still cuts in benefits to them with the least and gives big tax cuts to them with the most. By this week at the latest, the right-hand government has announced that they will cut the social benefits of young people receiving redundancy benefits. People who have documented a decline in their ability to work must be made poorer than they already are. Many have asked for the logic of this – that the rich will create more by becoming richer, while the poor will recover by becoming poorer. The Prime Minister described earlier today that this group is at risk of being parked outside social security schemes. That statement says a lot about the government's value base, and the results are based on a mountain. We're getting more on social assistance, more on disability, and not least there's an explosive increase in the number of young people unemployed. Instead of cutting where it hurts the most, for young sick people, the government should provide work, activity and measures for those who are struggling. Social sustainability is something much more important than fine words in a throne speech. Social sustainability is when we reduce the differences between people, trust each other and do everything in our power to give young people with challenges security and opportunities rather than being sent to social assistance. It is fully possible to reverse this trend, it is fully possible to reduce the differences between people, and it is fully possible to strengthen Nav's follow-up of youth, without cutting their income protection. It is fully possible to strengthen the social sustainability. The problem is that the right-wing government, through its actual policy, ensures increasing the differences between people and removing the security of young people with challenges and thus weakening social sustainability. Unless the actual policy takes a U-turn in the coming year, I actually expect the concept of social sustainability to be taken out of the next century.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e911	Norwegian companies depend on having someone to sell their goods to. Then there's one thing that matters, and that's having market access. The EEA Agreement allows Norwegian companies to export, sell their goods, to a market, to 500 million people instead of just over 5 million. It helps create well-being and security for work and new jobs. The EEA Agreement allows many enterprises, especially in the districts, with specialised labour needs to achieve this through the good cooperation we have in the EEA and in Europe, and to meet such needs when they need it, with the right people. Common legislation and cooperation in Europe have also given us the most ambitious framework for dealing with climate change. When you have common rules, the room becomes to compete with others, for example. reducing environmental requirements, less. Several parties wish to reject the EEA Agreement. These are parties upon which the Workers' Party is dependent to form a majority in this Chamber and in municipal governments around the country. I've asked you, haven't you learned from the United Kingdom? Despite being the third largest economy in the EU, they account for almost 15 pst. by EU citizens, they are not in the negotiating position to get an agreement that is close to what we have in the EEA Agreement. When the United Kingdom, a country with 67 million inhabitants and six and a half times as large an economy as Norway, fails to negotiate a better agreement than we have, why should we risk Norway's most important agreement, which is crucial for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian businesses around the country? We're a small country with an open economy. 80 pst. of all our exports go to the EU. We now have a red-green side that creates uncertainty about an agreement that is crucial for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian jobs. A severely weakened working party after the local selection labors to stag these cancers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e922	You don't build the country with closures. The right-wing government of Erna Solberg has been responsible for the implementation of the most intrigued reforms of the times. Both the police reform and the regional reform have met with criticism, in other words, all the camps, from professionals to ordinary people in the street. One of the reasons for this is that the right-wing government has plunged into the reforms with the ruler and the pen without thinking through goals and meaning. Now, reform must soon be brought to an end by what is best for the government, rather than what is best for the citizens of the country. The Labour Party believes it is the needs of ordinary people that must come first. The state exists for a normal life to be good and safe. The State and public offer shall contribute to making this possible, not weakening and changing the basis of life around the country through closures and reduced services. But the right-wing government has constantly insisted on setting the way ahead of why. When the public sector is to be renewed and streamlined or reformed, perhaps a wise approach would be to ask the question: why do we want this? Who's going to make it? In this way, a broad discussion of the contents could be arranged before the lines were drawn on the map, but the right-hand government has not chosen to go to work. Rather, on the contrary, it seems that they insist on drawing the map without giving any promises or clarifications as to what people's offer should be. The last run out now is a proposal for a large-scale abolition of district dishes all over the country. The report was presented on Tuesday this week by the Court of Justice Commission, with the blessing of the right-wing government. Only in a year's time will the Court's position on the content, i.e. what kind of offer people can expect to get. It's like choosing a cutlery before anyone knows what to eat, and there are common people who are left with forks and soup bowls. The result will probably be, now as before, that the Storting will be forced to discuss the process of closure before the content of the offer to people. The working party has been satisfied that the many reforms of the right-hand government are still starting at the wrong end. For us, content and offers come first. When we see how best things can be organised, we will make proposals for division and organisation, regardless of whether there are health regions, police districts, regional reform or court structure to be discussed. For the time being, we are hoped that there will not be more structural reforms without direction than to lay down foundations from this government. Because this can't be a good way to rule the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e935	The government has found budget lines of 5.2 billion. kr included in the calculation of the Defence’s share of GDP – gross domestic product. So the distance shrinks to 2 percent. Some people want it to be tricking with numbers to decorate the bet on our defense. I disagree. As long as NATO has set 2 pst. As a common objective, countries must operate on an equal scale. It makes no sense for some countries to tap the shoulder because they have reached the target when calculating pensions and tasks we finance from budgets other than those of the Defence. Therefore, it is quite timely that the government has entered figures from other budgets to get a better picture of where we stand in relation to other NATO countries. But the budget lines of 5.2 billion. kr does not enhance defence or security and shall not be a cushion of rest. It confirmed the king of the throne when he said that the government will continue to work to strengthen Norway's defence capabilities. Over 20 years, the defense was severely reduced. Departments and competences were lost, vehicles and vessels were worn down. The departments that were made up, were eaten by emergency stores, parts warehouses and fuel stores. The defense went from being a large and solid invasion defense to becoming a small expedition corps that would be used for offensive missions abroad. One example is the operation in Libya, where Norwegian fighter aircraft dropped 588 bombs. As far as I know, these bombs were taken from Norwegian emergency stores. How long did it take for them to be replaced and the preparedness restored? It takes time to re-fill empty stores. It's a rescue call that doesn't appear. It takes time to re-establish departments, and it takes time to build skills. But we're doing great, fortunately. A budget increase of 30 pst. so far during the government period has provided a lot of defence in a short time. New weapons, new air protection for the Army, five surveillance aircraft delivered in record time, new field artillery, which is also delivered in record time, new coastguard ships, better communication satellites and new departments in Finnmark are just some of the visible examples of the reinforcement carried out in recent years. It has done a lot of good to strengthen the defense, but there is also a lot to be done. Special Army needs to be strengthened by, among others: new tanks, helicopters and several battalions. There is still a need to increase defence appropriations. 2 pst. GDP is only a short-term measure. Norway must have a defence that has a deterrent capacity and presence, while clearly marking Norwegian sovereignty. That's what matters, not how much we spend on GDP.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e946	In this case, the Labour Party proposes that ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that higher education institutions place their regional responsibility and decentralised education throughout the country’. With increasing skills needs in all regions, it is urgent that these considerations be taken into account. They won't be today. The Minister of Higher Education is responsible for the provision of university and higher education in the country and for ensuring equal access to education. The uprising around North University is just about the lack of overall coordination and the lack of prioritisation of decentralised education and research. Since the right-wing government called the universities to change their structure, we have with amazement followed the government's handling of the matter. The Council of State has sent letters, met up with the Board of Governors and had its own meeting with external representatives of the Board of Directors. It's unclear what the government really thinks about Nesna, and the behaviour in the case actually reminds me more of gambling fiction than of the constructive liability. The Chairman of the Committee of the Progressive Party will now invite the Government of the State Council to the Control Committee. It's alarming. Does this mean that the Progress Party believes that she has failed in her job? Governments are notifying their own Storing Message or Storing Message Part about sector management. It may be necessary, but it does not release the government from responsibility for ensuring good and accessible education throughout the country. The real problem here is that the government that initiated the merger behind the North University did not ensure that the merger led to a better offer for the region. There was no strengthening in the state budget. The government has the means to provide a training offer at Nesna without breaking the autonomy of Nord University, but it requires clear governance and effective prioritisation of decentralised education. Governments could give a steering signal in allocation letters and development agreements to ensure that regional development was emphasised. The Workers’ Party’s proposal to ensure that higher education institutions focus on their regional responsibilities and decentralised education provides a clear guide to ensuring sufficient professionals, such as nurses, teachers and engineers, throughout Norway. But it is not possible if the government today supports the Workers' Party's proposal, but continues as before. The Labour Party expects a completely new and offensive course to ensure normal people across the country better provision of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e967	I would like to give an explanation of vote to some of the many proposals we are going to vote on later today, so that the Storting is informed about that. First, to proposal No. 11, from the Centre Party, on an analysis of how the scope of action of the EEA Agreement can be exploited to safeguard Norwegian interests in the energy, transport and labour sectors. I would first like to say that it is positive that the Centre Party is proposing how we can get the best out of the EEA Agreement. It is a constructive approach and that agreement is important for Norway. It is important to use the space for action in all international agreements. For the EEA Agreement, we exploited the space for action in the field of energy as we continued to participate in European energy cooperation in the spring of 2018, with continued and further strengthened political control over core tasks. So we will vote in favour of proposal No. 11, with that perspective. We are to use the space of action in all of our international agreements. Here, there are three areas of the EEA Agreement, but we can look at the scope of action throughout the agreement, because the EEA Agreement is good, and it can be made even better for Norway. So to proposal No. 17, on ensuring food supply in the country. The Labour Party will vote in favour of this proposal because there is a legitimate fear in several places that food supplies will be dropped before adequate alternatives are in place. That is why last year we supported a proposal by a majority in the Stortinget to ensure safe and forward-looking birth care by securing the current food institutions. This does not mean, of course, that there can be no change in the high-quality food supply system in future new hospitals planned for different places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e978	We need a mobile coverage policy in Norway. In the election campaign we visited the Labour Party Kvistli Islandhorse in Folldal. It's a place of future-optimism and people who create values locally and take tourists out to the horse back. It is a popular offer, but when customers call, they often wonder if the company has closed down, because it is not possible to get through on a mobile phone to the usual. Nor is it an Internet coverage that is good enough. This illustrates a very important point, because there are many companies and traders around our country who are struggling with the fact that the offer for both mobile telephony and broadband is too weak. In fact, it also describes a social development that is scary, because when large companies withdraw, the Internet is missing and the post is becoming increasingly rare, communication in some parts of the country is worse in 2019 than for example. 30 to 40 years ago. It is a great paradox, with all the technology now available – and available for a reasonable amount of money. In Hedmark, where I come from, the county council has taken the consequences of this and invests heavily in broadband to ensure that all citizens have access to the high-speed Internet. In Hedmark alone, the county municipality has invested more in broadband than the government has done for the country in total. It's about priority, and it's a conscious political choice, because we want it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of our state. In a multibillion-dollar state budget, there is at least room to set up some extra cell towers and roll out broadband wires to several parts of our country. This cannot be solved by the market alone. That's a very old-fashioned way of thinking about it. If we had thought that way when we built up fixed telephony, there would still be many places that lacked that coverage. At Kvistli they tried to order fixed telephony. When they called Telenor, they could not offer them fixed telephone subscriptions, but they wondered if they wanted to buy a telephone with pipes and wire. This must be taken together as a big deal, and that is why the Regional Committee of the Labour Party has launched a forward-looking policy in which we will give a proper boost to mobile coverage in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e993	I have noticed that the Workers' Party has been inspired by the Central Party's speech. But it's supposed to be the Center Party: it's only the Center Party that can be the Center Party – everything else is going to be a bad copy. There was an article yesterday that I noticed in particular. It was from the Central Party representative, Steinar Ness. He wanted a society based on respect and trust. It's just so sad that party leader Battle Force Vedum wasn't in the room under that post, because it's in stark contrast to the statement Battle Force Vedum made after the Court Commission presented its report. Then the party leader in the Center Party said to the VG, ‘Pill rottten!’ – probably before he himself had read the report. Where is the respect for professional competence and the professional environment? If you want to continue in this way, this big business may be able to make decisions that are directly to the detriment of countries and people. Any change will be met by the Centre Party with claims of centralisation. When 30 p.m. by the population of over 100 municipalities will be over 70 in 2030 – what is the Central Party’s response to this? ‘Services near people’ — what does that mean? Who will provide those services? It's about taking on some realities. Policies are not just about being re-elected – they are also about pursuing a policy that captures the needs of the future, so that it is good in our country. The management of the Norwegian police implements the police reform loyally and according to the decisions taken by the Stortinget. They are in the reform – unlike the Workers' Party. The need for this reform was well documented. This was done with a bent neck when the Gjørv Commission report was processed. There and in other reports it was said that the organisation of the Norwegian police was an insurmountable obstacle to better police services, despite the fact that the police had been budget winners year after year, even under the red-green ones. The success criterion for the Norwegian police is not just a visible police force. Police use 30 pst. of its resources of 3 pst. of the cases. Then it goes without saying that you can't just use the absence of police in the streets when you go there, as a test that the police aren't good enough. It's getting too simple. Finally, if E18: The representative Arnstad said yesterday it would be an environmental mistake to build a new E18. She has forgotten that 17 000 people are exposed to daily noise and pollution from that road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1010	Open access to research is important for our companies to change. It's important for our society as a whole when we're going to achieve the sustainability goals. It's important for the global south, which is going to rise. It's a goal we've had for years, but it hasn't happened very much. But today, at 5 p.m. 10 became public that Norway has landed a so-called publishing agreement with Taylor & Francis, the last of the four major publishers. It's a big day, and it's a milestone in the work of open research. For years we've been talking about it, and in the last year we've been able to land four agreements that give companies and people access to important information for the work they're going to do. In the Ministry of Knowledge, we are working on two major messages that will contribute to even better education and to even more international cooperation for the students. The government will present to spring a communication on international student mobility. We want several Norwegian students to take part in their education abroad, both in order to learn a different language and culture, and because increased international cooperation will help to improve the quality of our own education and research at home. It is also a prerequisite for solving the global challenges facing the world – both in terms of climate, and in terms of democracy – that we work together, and that we work internationally. That is why I am concerned that this big message should also contribute to a cultural change in the university and higher education sectors. Mobility must be an integral part of all Norwegian study programmes. The second major message is that the government will strengthen the quality and work relevance of higher education. We will do that through more mutual cooperation between the world of work and the universities and our colleges. In this way, we can reconcile the learning of students and the needs of the future working life in an even better way than today. Closer cooperation between work and education and more internationalisation, together with government's other efforts in education, research and innovation, will make us well equipped for further transformation, the green shift and the sustainability of our society. Finally, I would like to add a few words to this with district-friendly education, which was also up in the debate yesterday. The government is busy. We are concerned that one should be able to study all places in the country, even where there are no places to study. Because we have people with kids, and we have people working, and they either have to be able to take an education or update the education they have. There is something the government is busy about and will continue to work on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1027	There is an enormous interest in climate and the development to which several reports refer. There are young people who have been drivers, and they have succeeded in their commitment and have really got the case on the agenda. It's a clear signal that we're going to listen to, but that doesn't mean we're going to panic and make irrational choices. We need to participate as individuals, we need to engage in business, and we need to participate internationally, because climate is a global challenge. There is no objective for the Progress Party to make climate policy as bad as possible at home. Doomsday prophecies are extreme. They are exaggerated, and they are driven by a climate lobby that also has the motive to increase its own relevance. But we don't create a will to change by frightening the water of people. Positive changes take place gradually, and we do so in the form of cooperation where more considerations are taken into account. Therefore, the Progress Party considers it very important for Norway to have a good agreement with the EU. It allows us to reduce global emissions far more than without an agreement, by relieving other countries' climate emissions. But we're also going to catch other people. We're going to deliver on technology development and make good support arrangements, so Norwegian companies are still going to be a spearhead to develop new commercial technology. One of these areas is carbon capture and storage. If we succeed here, Norway can become a global climate winner where other countries will pay us to manage their emissions. This is a win-win situation, and not least the activity on Norwegian pedestal can be continued. There has been a polarized climate debate. It's the political parties that profit. But it's not like you're either for or you're against climate action. Because there's a room between lying in each of its ditches, where someone thinks that nothing affects anything and others think that the earth is going down. We need to convert society into a smarter everyday life by making available choices that lead to smaller emissions. Norwegian petroleum industry is not the sinner in this development, but is among those who contribute to this. Firstly, the industry contributes with income to ensure the welfare of the country. It contributes gas to Europe, which replaces coal and halves its emissions and is Norway's largest contribution to the Paris Agreement. The industry also contributes to technology and technology development, which gives less emissions, which we use in other industries, and which are involved in the necessary transformation. The industry is helping with the economy to implement the measures we are doing today for smaller emissions. We're not going to be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1040	Fortunately, it has become very trendy to talk about the part of the country in which I am so happy, North Norway. The challenge is that there is a big difference between who has solutions and actual visions, and who just talks. There was a time when you actually stood with 'hua in hands'. There was a time when there was a need for crisis relief, construction and subsidies. But now you expect more. In Northern Norway, they deliver for this country. We have resources, and more should be. We know that opportunities are great for the country and for the part of the country, for jobs, for employment and for how to build the future. Then you need one thing in place: security. It is not possible to have to deliver on defence, on security, on alert. In North Norway, you know what this really means. It's about geography, it's about history. We know where in the world we are. It was a time you had, among other things. a foreign minister who put this part of the country on the agenda – the northern areas were put on the agenda. It helped to create optimism and confidence. It's helped to make sure that we're actually expecting more. If you're going to build a part of the country, you also need infrastructure. In the state that I come from and represent, is 80 pst. of highways. We have to bet on these important food routes. We have to make sure that there's no rage on the roads, so the fish comes out. We need urban growth agreements, so you can grow in cities as well. We also need a serious debate on the North Norway Railway. There was a big debate in this election campaign, with good reason. Then you can't make flaked statements like you can only use driverless trailers, on dangerous winter roads that are dark. We need to get a real assessment of the need, we need to get a draft investigation, and that should be possible for many to vote for. I am pleased that we have finally received a fishing report on the table. We have to deal with the fisheries policy next year. It's going to be important. For the Workers' Party, it is important to create more industry and get a fairer distribution of resources. Then I have to say that it is touching to hear the care that the right side has for the Workers' Party in this room. You're talking about a left triangle. Yes, the worst turn is perhaps the turn of the Progress Party towards the Left Party, which has helped to make a home party without control, and it doesn't seem like there are any adults going home either. I hope that we will have a fine debate in the future about what we are going to do, and then I hope for more peace and quiet in the government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1068	What's good for the kids is good for everyone. There may be a consistent test in most cases. The goal of the Christian People's Party is a society in which all, not least the children, experience equivalency in practice, regardless of who we are, and how we can contribute to the community. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, children who experience poverty are a challenge and a measure of success. An equivalised society must guarantee human dignity at all stages of life and combat all forms of discrimination and sorting. An equivalised society shall protect everyone – the right to life, freedom, development and personal security. But we have a special responsibility to ensure that children and young people have the most basic human rights. Child poverty is therefore unacceptable and unfair. We have a way to go to achieve this goal. Although most children and residents in Norway live safe and good lives, many fall outside the community. We have social differences and thus a child poverty that can prevent good and innocent children from having important opportunities and a good future. Then we don't get to develop the full potential of the population well enough. Negative social spirals must be reversed. I hope and believe that the Christian People's Party's policy will be such a turning point. The causes can be many – loss of income, drug problems and other things can give rise to exclusion and a weak economy. This requires specific measures. Such a situation may present emotional and real challenges to children and young people if the economy deters them from participating in general activities. They may experience isolation, loneliness, mental health disorders or stigmatisation and bullying. There are experiences that can stand for all of life, and that the Christian People's Party strongly wants to contribute to counteract. That is why we want to promote a policy that works for this purpose. The Christian People's Party will therefore target measures that help those who need it the most. We are proud of the footprints of the Christian People's Party, many were mentioned in the Common Era. We're still fighting for child welfare, for leisure cards for everyone, for cash support, one-off social assistance, early school work and teacher's density, staffing standards and free core time in kindergarten, for some, and reasonable SFO for those who need it. And the district and municipal politicians of the Christian People's Party will now give priority to grants to organisations that contribute to the participation of children and young people affected by poverty problems and their families in ordinary leisure and holiday activities. This applies throughout the field — sport, culture, Christian and humanitarian work, non-governmental organisations, holiday services and cultural schools. When children succeed and master their daily lives by normal participation in their living environment, it becomes a good thing for the whole family and can provide the necessary social status. Then I'm also proud to be in a party where the aid policy is characterized by the fact that the child's best interests are the most important, also in a global perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1081	Politicians who construct conflict, then exploit it for their own benefit, are many of them every day. One of them is President of the United States, several of them are trying to split Europe. During this debate, we've heard the Center Party paint with a broad brush and create a picture of how bad it is for us living in the village. It's obviously just within Ring 3 there's something close to viable. A conflict between ‘us’ on the built-up and ‘em’ on the city is constructed. And we nordics let themselves be torn apart by this type of rhetoric, because 'they' shall have nothing better than 'us'. It's in the Norwegian People's Party. It's better that the neighbor has the same beat as I have it, than that he has something I don't have. Then at least it's equal! I'm happy I live in the village and not in the city. I'm not very happy to have people close to me. In the countryside, I breathe and relax, live the good life. In addition, I am so lucky that I live in Norway’s most sunny state, Vestfold – beautiful Vestfold. From the farm at home, the town really looks quite gray. I have chosen the green beech forest, the doves and the seas as far as the eye can see. It is not so nice that Vestfold is a popular holiday destination – it is really nice that not everyone has moved there. But everything is not just joy and fun outside the cities. There has been a decline in the population in the districts no matter who has been in government. Young people move from the districts to the cities, and we see that many municipalities are «forgubbed». In recent years, however, something exciting has started to happen in District Norway. The availability of many districts has not been lower since the financial crisis. So it goes, laughing in district industries like tourism, farming and forestry. The growth of agricultural production has been much stronger during this government than under the previous one. Travel life has been a record for four consecutive years. Farming is reduced each year under this government than when the Senter Party sat with the Minister of Agriculture. Forestry had the best year since 1989 in 2017. It's before more people were born here, President! Yeah, well, I'm good for the district industries. But what about the municipalities, they're starving, right? No, no, no. There have never been fewer municipalities with poor finances. In 2016, municipalities had the strongest operating result in 10 years. The ROBEK list has never been shorter, almost two-thirds of those who are messing with the economy under Central Party rule, are now out of the ROBEK list. That's not exactly the impression you're left with after this debate. I'm a little tired -- tired of politicians talking us down in the districts, telling us that we can't get to anything unless the state comes in and gives us a helping hand. We're doing fine – better than fine, actually. I am proud of District Norway and the job done every day by those who live and work there. I'm proud to live in a farm, and I'm tired of politicians trying to tell me that I'm not well. ‘New Norway’ is found in Norwegian groceries at the store – not ‘New Misnøye’, but ‘New Norway’. We need politicians who enjoy Norway and value the countryside. Don't make us poor, because the good life lives in the countryside of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1106	At the same time as we see an accelerating climate crisis, we are witnessing an insane extinction of plants and animals, a destruction of nature that tears away the life base under our legs. Destruction is as dangerous as the climate crisis. Today, our intervention in nature is the greatest threat to biodiversity. But if we don't manage to limit the consequences of the climate crisis, so will the dramatic changes, the extinction of species and a massive change in nature as we know it. About half of Norway’s energy consumption is fossil today. And it has to go away when we're going to fight the climate crisis. Then we need increased efforts to improve energy efficiency and we need more renewable energy. But we must fight the climate crisis without at the same time destroying our valuable nature. In Norway today there is a strong debate on wind power. In several places, people are fighting for their loved nature. This is an important battle, a battle we have to take seriously. The current national framework for wind power, which has been requested by many environmental and outdoor organisations and a large majority of the Stortinget, cannot be dealt with only by the government. It must also be dealt with by the national Parliament of the country. Only in this way can we ensure that people and municipalities are heard in the best possible way – that their concern for their natural areas is taken seriously. Therefore, SV has today proposed that the national framework should come to Stortinget. We hope that those who are concerned about our common natural heritage, our basis of life, support this proposal. The national framework for wind power must also be a plan to protect our valuable natural areas from wind power where it is not to be built. It must be made clear clearly that it is not to be built in pristine and valuable natural areas and that the rights of indigenous people must be respected. We can ensure this through the matter coming to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1117	I signed up for the policy in the fight against the merging of my home state, Telemark, with another state, and with it Telemark Zenterparti got its first deposit representative since 1993. When I took up all the centralization that the citizens of Telemark had already been affected by in my very first debate on the throne, I overcame it while I was looking at the Prime Minister. I talked about the centralisation of hospital services, the college, the county office, the emergency centres and the police – and not least, it would now be fewer politicians to represent the whole state. I saw quite intensely at the Prime Minister at the time, because I had a expectation that she only needed to understand how her policy hit us in the districts – that it is completely wrong to make greater differences between the big cities and the rest of the country. I got a little response. I also received that last year when, in the same debate, I looked the same way and raised the same issue. Then I thought that the lack of response to the criticism was due to the fact that the Prime Minister and the government were not interested in hearing about all the negative consequences, because they believe so strongly that everything is resolved with magnificence. When I stand here today and again, the same problem absolves me, unfortunately, because I no longer believe that the lack of response to all criticism of centralisation policy is due to the fact that Prime Minister and Government are not interested or do not understand. I – like many others – believe that they actually don't care. This must be the reason why new centralising reforms and government-sponsored reports are being addressed, condemned to lead to further centralisation — by postal transport, by traffic stations and by the courts. Samples are being set up which propose to take the electricity from power stations or to set VAT on travel and culture. Both parts will hit the districts hard! These are only reports, but why have they been ordered, and why are the mandates as they are? Is it because the consequences for the districts are not so dangerous? It seems like this. The most obvious example of the fact that the Prime Minister and the government do not care is that they do not just spend enough money in the near-police reform so that it can succeed. The police themselves say that there is a lack of resources that leads to that they can no longer do their job in the districts. Had the government cared about that, the money would have come. Now we have a choice where the affected voters have sent a strong signal that they do not like that the Prime Minister and the government do not care about them. I hope the signals are taken seriously. I do not expect my signals to be taken from here, even as much as I look at the Prime Minister, but I am asking that at least the signals from all the district politicians from the government parties that I met around in the election campaign this year are taken. They're pretty disappointed. Both they and the rest of the population in the districts need more and not fewer state jobs, good enough services and good enough political representation. Stop this centralizer, it's the wrong course.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1136	In Norway's modern history, the Workers' Party, together with the trade union movement, has been responsible for the major reforms. These are the reforms that took us out of poverty. These are the reforms that created new and modern Norway after the World War. These reforms were, at present, very controversial and radical. The right-hand side was consistent with them. But these reforms created well-being and social security for our people, and society was created for everyone. The Workers' Party has never been in the way of science and what technological development has required of change, of production and of society. This has been supported and endorsed by the population, because we have always taken care of those who, because of changes and necessary changes, need the support of society and politics. One important aspect of this, which is always under-communicated, including on the right, is that it has created a historically high and stable value creation in society. The accusations in this debate that the Workers' Party lacks governance are, of course, the least false, but they are unreasonable, and it is completely unrooted in reality, simply an expression of political agitation from the right. All the time, it is demonstrated that the Right does not accept the big context, does not accept that society must be linked, that one does not accept that society should actually exist for everyone – more and more, unfortunately, I would say. The last example – and that’s just an example, but it just came when the debate started – is the cutbacks in the redundancy pay for young people. I heard intensely yesterday on the Minister of Labour's argument. It is bureaucratic, it is technocratic, and it lacks the necessary political empathy to understand what such cuts mean. We take from you 80 000 – 90 000 kroner to help you in a different way. That's how many times I wonder why they're doing this. Well, they do it because they're the Right People, really. That's how the Right People have thought in all of Norway's modern history, that's why it's going to be. Of course, the party is with most people, as it is called. Finally, I would say, the Left and Christian People's Party will do as best they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1151	‘It shall live and work people throughout the country’, the census was initiated. If we are to achieve that, we must follow up with politics. Many of those who move to cities move because that's the only way they can get work – not because they want to live in a city. To ensure that people have a real choice, we need to facilitate business development and jobs across the country. Although the government says they want it to live in people throughout the country, they're pursuing a policy of centralisation. Through municipal reform, regional reform, Nav reform and police reform, they cut funds for district development and change the income of the municipalities from the small to the large municipalities. In the most recent proposals of the government-appointed expert committees on judicial structure and hydropower taxes, this trend of centralisation is continued. The goal of people living throughout the country is not followed up on the policy pursued – rather on the contrary. Now we've just had municipal and county elections. Thousands of local elected representatives are ready to take up the job with important tasks in their municipality, developing good services for the population, facilitating business development and contributing to green solutions. In this connection, I hope that, in addition to the Draid Aid from Stortinget, they will get work rest to concentrate on the important tasks they have been given, and not be forced to spend time on new discussions on municipal mergers. Everything is related to everything. The sum total of all small and large centralisation measures is that society is changing dramatically, and it is happening quickly. Norway has had an active district policy that has worked. The majority of the population is about to tear this down. The centralisation of services in merged municipalities is not a fear propaganda from the Central Party. That's plain facts. The experience of the 1960s rounds shows that in 60 out of 70 out of 70 out of all municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, there is no longer a single hospital. In 10 out of 70, both nursing homes, kindergarten and school are closed. The fear that government policies will lead to the disappearance of services and security from local communities is entirely real. If we believe that there are people living in the whole country, there is a paradox that there are urban growth agreements, but not urban growth agreements. The centre party has arranged for rural growth agreements, an obliging investment in Norwegian district municipalities. By betting 12 billion. Over a ten-year period of rural growth agreements, we can focus on growth – not only in cities but also in districts. Now we have been among the boring in the debate that the Central Party is black-painting district policy, and that the inhabitants are really satisfied with the district policy that is being pursued. Then it's strange that the Center Party went from 8.5 to 14 pst. at the time of the election, while all the government parties declined sharply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1164	A few days ago, I sent a reading article addressed to the newly elected local government representatives of the country on what I advised them to focus on in the elderly policy over the next four years. For this four-year period, it is crucial that we succeed in the tasks of an ageing population. As I see it, the main task over the next four years is to strengthen the lower steps of the care ladder. Hospitalisation will continue to be important, but we need to use far more energy on those services that may expose the need for a health home. My advice to local politicians can be summarised in four main points: Food shortages and good nutrition: when more people are going to stay at home longer, we need to have an extra look at the locals for the next four years. In the home, there is a tendency for undernourishment to occur. Daily activities: This is particularly important for people with dementia and their relatives, but also for other elderly people who need social communities. Open elderly centres with daily activities help to keep older people active and healthy. Safety technology such as GPS and fall sensors: GPS clocks, etc. for people with dementia are important for maintaining freedom, while at the same time feeling safer when out on the road. Sensors on doors and beds can make night care less disruptive, and you can reduce the risk of falls and other incidents. Build old-age and nursing homes: not everyone can afford to change the old and inappropriate dwelling into a new apartment, and many older people with disabilities need easy-to-use housing close to municipal services. In order for local politicians to do this, we in Stortinget also need to set up tools and adequate budgets, so I also have some advice for the government and the minister of the elderly: Firstly, we need a solid municipal budget in addition to the government's announced grant to the hospital kitchen. It does not apply to the kitchen if we do not have money for both professionals and voluntary initiatives, such as ‘food friends’. We still need grants to invest in day-time activities, and we need to support the municipalities that will build security housing. Not only can it be older with a well-filled wallet that gives you the opportunity to move to an easy-to-use home. We have to bet on the lower steps of the care chain, and then these two means are very central. When implementing more technological solutions, municipalities also need a stronger commitment to broadband and health technology systems for municipalities. On Monday, the State budget will be presented. I have high expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1190	The representative Asphjell said something earlier today that I fully agree with, namely that we need more proud trade union workers. The Progress Party supports this. We need more people working in the basement. But I was a little surprised by the argument that came from the Workers' Party, which today advocates a profession for professionals and apprentices. So this is from the same representative as 12 February this year, from the same interlocutors, that it was now time for a lift for further training for teachers. I don't know what the Labour Party has done in the last six years, but they can't have followed very much. So while the Labour Party in the government sent only 1,500 teachers to continue their training this year, we are now sending over 6,000 teachers a year. We're making sure they get professional refills, and that's what the OECD highlights as the most important and most effective thing we can do to make sure that we increase the quality of classroom education around the country. A professional lift was also requested. I think the representative of Asphjell should be pleased that it is the Progress Party who is in government, and not the Workers' Party. We have been working systematically for six years to raise the professions; seven times we have adjusted the apprentice's allowance by a total of NOK 21 000, a grant that remained calm below the red-green ones. We have strengthened the demand for the use of apprentices to win public tenders, we have completed the years of professional training, and we are now changing the supply structure of the profession, so that education becomes more relevant to the labour market. The result is that more people are applying for a profession, and we have a record in the number of apprenticeships for the fourth consecutive year. Since we are still concerned that many people do not have a place to learn, we continue to get more apprenticeships and make the professions more attractive. But the promise that the Workers' Party is now calling for in 2019, we started already in 2013. The representative Gahr Støre said yesterday that 60 pst. of the population will live in a municipality governed by either a Labour Party rapporteur or head of bureau. With the left turn that the party is now going on, it worries, and I'm afraid that half of the country's kindergartens are now in play just because they're driven by private actors. The working party has moved on to a rhetorical line that is close to SV and Red, with which they are now going to cooperate in many municipalities, which is that they will prohibit private kindergartens from operating. They make the future half of the country's kindergarten children uncertain. I believe that when someone manages to run a service cheaper than the public and cuts parental studies better, we should ask how we can learn more from them, not fight to put them down. The local politicians of the Progress Party will follow closely – be a watchbick who will continue to fight for competition, for freedom of choice and for the diversity of kindergartens to choose from for families in the municipalities. A brief explanation of vote on proposal No. 26: The government parties will be able to vote in favour of this, because as we see it, this proposal is not a requirement to regulate the sector in detail. Regional development is one of the objectives of structural reform, but it is the responsibility of the boards to define internal organisation at all levels, and the various study places are the responsibility of the boards. This is in line with the Committee's position on the treatment of the structural notification, which was also supported by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1209	After following this debate for almost two days, I have the impression that the opposition is cracking in all directions. The only thing that unites is that one is opposed to what the government is doing — a implemented negativeism and a general description of the misery of development in all sectors and all parts of the country. It's much harder to get a clear picture of what these parties are for. What is an alternative plan, and what concrete policy solutions does the opposition have? We have received a few answers to that question. The only thing that is reasonably certain is that the tax burden will dramatically increase for families and businesses with such policies. One of the main issues of the Workers' Party has been to create an impression of significantly increased differences. That the unemployment rate is record low and that the record number is on the job, there is little talk about it. Why that, when the greatest difference is between those who are at work and those who are outside? I'm not saying that we don't have the challenges to solve, that we don't have the differences in Norway, but the country is therefore named one of the world's best countries to live in – the country with the least inequalities between people. With the universal distribution of welfare schemes, we are actually that country in the world with the largest redistribution of income and the smallest economic differences. At the local elections this year, protest parties, flying parties and single cause parties have increased their dominance, especially on the red-green side. It's at the expense of the formerly responsible governing party, the Workers' Party, and it's actually worrying. What we see is an opposition in an ideological spat, from the Central Party's peculiar conservatism to the Communist Party's Red, and with an MDG that has a policy based on the metropolitan reality of voters with urban lifestyles – far away from the reality that people experience around the country. As clusters, from the core of the Centre Party, it is quite difficult to understand that the Centre Party will continue to cooperate with parties which are fundamental opponents of the value on which the Party is founded: property rights, the building of society from below, the proliferation of power and the importance of local democracy, parties such as, inter alia, is responsible for state over-management and objections to land policy and a completely different predatory policy. As one commentator wrote it: Unfortunately, it is that the Central Party's path to government will be paved with socialism. It is difficult to see that this grouping of Norwegian policies can be a manageable option to ensure continued economic growth, adaptability and sustainability for the welfare of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1224	I have never been good at routines myself. I go away too often and still haven't finished the Harry Potter book that I started years ago. But now I finally got a firm hold of my life, and it has become a routine that happens every Friday. When I walk out of my door on Fridays, I walk from home, down towards Stortinget, past young climate activists in Eidsvoll's Square and in here. Students and students tend to drop teaching on Fridays and rather strike for the climate. Today, there's a harvest holiday and no teaching to drop, but they're here and they're there, just like the rest of the Fridays For Future movement is doing all over the world. My Fridays start off brilliantly and filled with hope that the climate activists give me, but then the mood falls when I get in here, to this building that is filled with climate-resilient politicians who agree to the good demands of the young people who strike for the climate, rather than vote to give away even more sea areas to the oil industry. The climate issue is about a lot. We are proud of our nature in Norway, and we depend on our ecosystems to function, so that nature, trees, insects and livestock can continue to produce the basis for what becomes our food, medicine, clothing – because everything we have around us comes from nature. All of this is at stake when we force nature to adapt to climate change, which is coming faster than it can adapt to. For me, the climate issue is perhaps all about justice. When in Norway, which is already a rich country, we make even more money selling our oil, we make a choice. Then we say that our economic growth is more important than the security of poor countries for natural disasters, their ability to produce food in their rural areas and their ability to live the way they are used to. It's often our sense of justice that comes into play when we choose to spend time standing up for something. I signed into the SU, Socialist Youth, eight years ago to work against the unfair racism, and the summer has shown us that unfortunately there is still a need. When a Norwegian terrorist tries to shoot off in one of our mosques, it is absurdly irresponsible that government members do not go out long afterwards and warn against what they call ‘snickislamisation’. We're lucky to have good Muslims among us in our society, and it's a shame that the government is trying to push them away when we need to, is to take care of each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1240	That's when it happens, this is the chance we have, that's now we have to act. Norway faces two major challenges. One is the sustainability of the welfare state. We know that the adventure that gives Norway extraordinary income will not last forever. That means that we need to change, and that we need to drive the welfare state in a better way to preserve it for the generations to come. These include: to help people get out of work more quickly. It's about helping people to take care of themselves and theirs, and it's about having respect for those who are in the social security system, and making sure they get the follow-up they're entitled to. Not surprisingly: every time there are proposals for such measures, the left-hand side reacts and the government calls unsocial. This comes from parties that have never managed to build a welfare system that doesn't push people into involuntary exclusion. At the same time, the world is facing a climate crisis. We who are sitting on the Storing today are going to be judged by what we do to solve it. A conservative party will never allow the world to be ruled by crisis. We don't know exactly what will be the consequences of uncontrolled climate change, but we know it's serious. In Norway we are already hearing concerns from agriculture about unpredictable weather changes. Global food production will be more difficult. Biodiversity will be reduced. Natural experiences will be destroyed, water resources will be degraded, poverty will increase, and we will see major conflicts over natural resources and increased refugee flows. The climate requires both national and global action. Nationally, we need to be able to see the change we need to do, both in the context of jobs and in the context of a good climate policy. The situation we saw in the oil price drop a few years ago can only be the contours of what we can see in the future if we can't make Norway less oil dependent. In addition, the government has to provide a plan for how to cut 50 pst. by 2030 with our 2030 Climate Change Project. Every sector in Norway will cut emissions, and there is something new in Norwegian climate policy. It comes with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1253	The Equal Opportunities Reform was launched in the Government Declaration of 29 January 2019 and shall: ‘make it easier for families with children with special needs. We will ensure equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life for all. Parents waiting for children with special needs shall be given a statutory right to the coordinator already during pregnancy, including the right to complete guidance and organisation. We need to improve the BPA system and increase the number of VTA sites to ensure that even more people are able to be included in the labour market and society at large.’ Gender equality reform is called for from disability organisations. Equality means equal rights and equal opportunities. First of all, it is the possibilities that distinguish disabled people from other groups. The government's emphasis is on equivalency, but it's not long since the government's parties voted against incorporating the UN Convention on Disability in Norwegian Law. The Convention was introduced to ensure equivalence, equal opportunities and equal rights for people with disabilities. The government will improve coordination in the provision of services, but coordination is already provided for in the Health and Welfare Services Act, the Patient and User Rights Act, the Specialist Health Service Act, the Mental Health Protection Act, the Nav Act, the Social Services Act, the Training Act and the Introduction Act. What is lacking is government governance with a legislative and financial framework, so that the services can exercise their obligations. The government will improve the BPA system, but has not yet corrected any known weaknesses. If the government wants to strengthen the VTA regime, it will have occasion to do so when the draft State budget for 2020 is presented. We know that 80 pst. students with developmental disabilities leave school without having a job to attend. It is positive that the government says that they will improve the situation for disabled people and their relatives, but it is regrettable that the government has not taken up the matter until now. SV expects the government's commitment to be clearly identified in the government's budget proposal for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1267	I want to take people to this hall home to Haugesund, to the competent professional community and management at Haugesund Hospital. Hospitals are the jewel of our society and possibly the most important institution in our social contract. Last week we were able to read in the Haugesund Newspaper that all the department heads went out in a multidisciplinary manner – uniquely in this way – by the medical department and notified of irresponsible operating budgets, both in the past and in the future. The concern was addressed to the board of directors and management, through the front page of the Haugesund Newspaper and good content in the newspaper. I am very pleased that unfair budgets are being announced. I am pleased that both department heads and employees meet with respect from both the board and the managing director. But the reason I'm taking this up today is that I'm worried about parts of the answers. The situation in Hospital Norway is such that, fortunately, it is treated more than before, but without the corresponding increase in appropriations. It is also the main response from management – an honest and sincere feedback that appropriations do not increase accordingly. The responsibility for it lies also in this room. I have strong faith in dialogue and openness. I tipped that those who went out, interdisciplinary, with this message, went some rounds with themselves before they dared to go out so strongly. They need to know that once they do, we're going to listen to Stortinget, we're going to read, and we're going to take the situation seriously. The top management, the board of directors of the company or the director should also know that when they dare to be so brave and give such an honest answer about the situation, yes, we will listen, and we will act. They are set to do a task within unreasonable limits. Therefore, it is with strong hope and clear expectation that the government has also listened, and that they will benefit from a better working day in the 2020 budget for courageous employees and management at Health Fonna as well as in the rest of Hospital-Norway. We must judge Health Norway for the future. It must be possible to operate within the budget and expectations provided for therein, from the management of the undertaking or from the Director. We need to ensure that those requirements are followed up with realistic appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1280	We haven't come to the end of the debate yet, but there are many issues here that deserve a little more attention, and I'm going to comment on a couple of them. One is the proposal for changes in taxes on energy that the Sanderud Committee has now come forward with. It is a proposal that I think is the Ministry of Finance's dream, that, after so many years, one should finally have the opportunity to liquidate the statutory rights that municipalities have at concession fee and concession power. It would have been a dream to get the income converted directly into the state treasury, so that the state could then distribute to the municipalities with mild hands. We're going to hope that all the responses that have come up can make it possible to stop such a proposal. There are reactions both in the opposition and in the government parties, because what the sample also has, is the art of bringing together the power municipalities and the power industry in a unison resistance to the proposal. The reason for this is not only that they deduct the municipalities' incomes, but they do not respond to the task that the energy industry asked for when it came to increasing the value creation in the hydropower sector, because the energy companies were involved in, was not to remove the local energy revenues. What they were concerned about was the structure of the rent and the rent tax on land. That is the problem of realizing the perhaps five TWhs that can be involved in the rehabilitation and modernisation of Norwegian hydropower. Their failure to respond to this task has led to unison resistance throughout the industry, both in the power companies and in the power stations. The centre party has promoted a number of climate proposals here today, and we have done so because we believe that it is necessary for an international air traffic to be included in climate responsibility in a way that is different from what one has to do. We do that because we believe that Norway has greater opportunities today to contribute to climate finance on the energy side, especially in emerging economies. We believe that because we believe that there is a lack of a plan for how to increase the carbon uptake in the forest, and we need that plan when we look at how the net bond is going to be reduced in the next decade. Then there are many aspects to the climate debate. I have said it before, and I mean it still; I am not so concerned about the debate in the debate, but I am concerned that the climate debate should not be on the outside of the rest of the political debate. It must work together with other important goals for society. We need to be better at distinguishing between small and large in the climate debate, and we need not just to fan the index finger, but to facilitate the transformation that has to come into climate context. There are many good measures that you can take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1293	I wanted to take the floor because the right in this debate has been very busy talking about the Workers' Party's reluctance to settle with the government. The right has traditionally been most concerned with talking about its own policy, but that's okay, we'll hear their views. The Labour Party has, throughout its history, been concerned with leading the country best, often through reforms that we have the front, sometimes through cooperation and trust between parties. It's been our line, and we're going to keep doing that. But once an agreement has been concluded, it is expected to be fulfilled. It's like this on the Storting, and that's the way it's done in private. When you make an agreement with someone, you expect it to be fulfilled, and if it is not fulfilled, you need at least an explanation as to why it is not done. The problem here has been that agreements are broken. One thing you can do when agreements break up again and again, is you can start learning from it. For the Workers' Party, there has been an animal-acquired experience, and the police reform has such a character. I come from Follo, and I can talk about my region. That's where the number of policemen hasn't increased, it should, and we don't have visible police in the streets, which is important for the trust between people and the police. The response time has not fallen, on the contrary, and there is no capacity to investigate matters. There are also policemen who are in civilian positions instead of being out and patrolling, as the police are supposed to do. In Nittedal, a municipality in Akershus, they got a bombardment on the town hall. The police did not have the capacity to come, so they had to send out the counsellor to investigate and find out what this was. We can't do that – and then the Workers' Party says no to new settlements with the government, at least settlements that are broken. Last fall, there's been a series about Gerhardsen. There we see what courage and vision of the future can do, how to make Norway go from one of Europe's poorest countries to one of Europe's richest. In response to today's greatest challenge, today's government appears to be the straight contrast to Gerhardsen. We need a government that puts the climate first, that builds down the contradictions between people, doesn't build them, that builds the country, doesn't sell the country, and that gets work and climate to go hand in hand. That's how we're going to solve the greatest challenge of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1302	The representative of the Central Party in the Trade Committee, Geir Adelsten Iversen, made a speech earlier today that was humiliated but very dramatic. The article describes a time ‘until the quota egg was introduced’ with a lot of activity and that there is now almost no activity at all in the Finnish fisheries and rural industry. This is how I experience it, a storywriting with fake color sticks. The fisheries and seafood industry is leading to a fantastic activity along the coast, and the government has put forward its own strategies for increased activity. We have a pretty good overview of how many jobs and ring-effects are created, and then I'm going to agree with Adelsten Iversen that we want to create even more. But back to the nostalgia before the quotas were introduced: when the cod fish was closed in 1990 – that's what I assume you mean when you say before the quotas were introduced – it was because the stock collapsed due to overfishing, and the cost of rowing fishing in North Norway was higher than the income. Have a taste of that. The fisherman came back poorer from the field than when he left. The activity described by Adelsten Iversen had long been of such magnitude that the stock of cod was nearly destroyed. And that's the story behind the Norwegian quota regimes; they've been an answer to overfishing. Overfishing can give a lot of activity, but as we know, when the fish get away, there's no activity. Since 1990, the quota regime has created a profitable and strong fisheries sector, among other things. in Finnmark. An article in the Fisheries Bulletin showed that over the last 20 years, more fish have been fed to Finnmark, and if the situation around the millennium was reversed, Finnmark would relatively lose between 8 000 and 10000 tonnes of fish, or in the area of 100 sardines. So Finnmark wins on today's quota segment. Some municipalities in Finnmark have received smaller fish, but then it is because another municipality in Finnmark has got more. Vardø had 150–160 tonnes of less fish caught in 2015 than in 2000, but the neighbouring municipality of Båtsfjord had an increase that was almost 30 times higher, and the landing of fresh cod was almost trebled in that municipality. Similarly, North Cape had somewhat less, but Hasvik had almost four times more land fresh cod in 2015 than in 2000. It has provided the basis for a strong land industry, including: in Båtsfjord. Comparing this with a non-sustainable free fish is not real. You have to remember that a free fish is free fishing for everyone. In practice, it ends with the full-time fisherman. The installation is difficult to interpret as other than believing that the quota for vessels in fisheries should have been removed. All experience and research suggests that this will lead to stock collapse, black seas and end-of-fishing as an industry. The question is then: does the representative of Adelsten Iversen think that the quotas should be abolished and that there should be free fishing? And is it this time that he talks on behalf of himself, or on behalf of the party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1317	In East Agder we have a lot to be proud of. One of the highest things we do is our hospitals. I am therefore pleased that the new director of the Sørlande Hospital has said that she will develop all three hospitals at Agder – also the hospital in Arendal. The challenge for the hospital director, however, is not that she has received so much money that she does not know where to start to get to this development. She doesn't start at zero either. She's going to develop by starting with 178 million. kr i minus. Hit it. Of course, I also want Sørlanden Hospital to apply new technology, work smarter and more efficiently. No patients will be hospitalized any longer than is necessary. But to create positive development and even better patient treatment when you're going to cut close to 200 million. kr, is anything other than simple. Most hospitals in Norway are now aware of the challenge posed by the tight framework of this government. It will then be difficult to afford to invest in the most modern technology and use new, expensive but effective medicines in patient treatment. The Labour Party has done something about this challenge. Each of the last few years, we've committed to an economic growth for the 3 billion hospitals. kr in our budget. This year alone, the Sørlande hospital would receive about 60 million. kr more to perform good patient care. The torches for the hospital in Arendal have been large. It's not for no reason. One is not used to the fact that there is a willingness to develop – rather than liquidate – our hospital. Unfortunately, history has many examples of the hospital's having gone wrong in Arendal, whether it's about a reduction in neurology and stroke treatment, or the birthplace, which disappeared from the hospital a few years ago. In Kristiansand, a new building of psychiatry is now being built. As a result, the Arendal offer of child and youth psychiatry will be phased out when the new building is completed. Then it might not be so strange that people get a little skeptical. A few months ago, I challenged the Minister of Health whether an evaluation of the post of birth of the hospital in Arendal would be carried out, which was moved. A newborn birth can be of particular importance to the unplanned risk births. The evaluation of the new-born post is now under way, but how real is the possibility of putting the new-born post back in place when the box is empty? People in East Agder and in Arendal are proud of their hospital. That is why we are also afraid of it when the budgetary axe is cut again. We need peace and development around our hospitals. Unfortunately, today’s Minister of Health and Government has made it difficult to succeed in this. In the languages of the throne, the government says that security is an important goal, and that one will strengthen preparedness. The Southern Hospital and the rest of the Hospital-Norway need the government to show that it is actually serious about these words when the state budget is presented in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1336	Yesterday, one of the representatives of the Central Party from the Nordic countries was up in the pulpit and called for action for North Norway from the government. As a northerner, I decided to take the invitation from the representative of the Central Party. It's going well in Northland and North Norway. Since the Progress Party was given the Minister for Transport in 2013, the allocations for national road investments in the north have tripled. Business rates and investment are as never before, and unemployment in the country is record low. What amazes me with the posts of the representative, where he describes a difficult situation for the county council on the basis of the fact that the county took over 4 100 km of county road, is that the representative of the central party seems to have forgotten who is really responsible for the situation. When the Central Party was in power, the administrative reform was adopted — a reform that led to the transfer of responsibility for and governance by 17 000 km of highway and several ferry links from the state to the states. These were road sections with a significant maintenance set-up, and the reform was carried out without sufficient additional resources being allocated to the counties to discharge their new responsibilities. So this happened on the Senter Party Guard. This is a repetition from the Center Party. They talk loud about centralisation and lack of maintenance on county roads. It's on the verge of comics when they try to run away from their responsibilities – faster than the Ingebrichtsen brothers together. I am so lucky that I come from the state of this possibility, and through the participation of the Progress Party in government, we have put all the way into transportation – also on county roads. From our entry into the government offices, the sum of the county roads has increased every fiscal year. For 2019, compared to 2013, the increase is 1 billion. After the selection of the county council in the autumn, it is only to be noted that the Centre Party will continue to rule the county and county roads. It is then permissible to hope that the great words of the party in the capital will be followed up by practical policies in the Nordic countries. The centre party has been sitting with county councils for four years in Northern Ireland. In the course of these four years, the Centre Party has made everyday life more difficult for the Nordics by not devoting sufficient resources to the county roads, by laying down boat and ferry routes, by making school offers and by laying down dental offices. Such political priorities make it difficult to live the good life in the districts of Northern Ireland. The money bag is big, but it turns out it's easier to call on the government and everybody else to come and clean up their own mess and for lack of priorities over several years. Then I would like to give an explanation of vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The Progress Party will vote against this proposal. It is a good proposal, but it is ensured by the toll agreement concluded between the government parties this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1359	It has been interesting to follow the debate. Representatives of the Right and Advance Party are asked to criticise the Centre Party. I'll answer a few things. The representative Tveiten Benestad from the Right believes the government is taking responsibility, but in the opposition we attach to them intentions for reforms and reduced selections that they do not have. In the next turn, she points out that old structures were created at a different time and need to be changed to change. I think what she's saying stands for itself as to what the government's intentions are. To make it crystal clear, even though there shouldn't be any doubt after all the Central Party initiative has taken, the Center Party is for change, as long as it's not imposed and forced through. You have to know what problems you have to solve, and how, before you start changing. The problems today's governments are responding to are their own ideology and internal conflicts. The regional reform with Viken, Troms and Finnmark, Hedmark and Oppland are among the results that have been pushed forward without a good assessment of the impact. The representative Gustavsen of the Progress Party asks the Central Party whether we believe everything was better before, and refers to the police reform. I want to say that there is much we can learn from what things were like before, but the most important thing about the police reform is to understand that the way from the drawing board and the theory to practice and reality is long. The experiences of professionals and citizens speak for themselves, and in some places people experience that preparedness was actually better before. This is serious. We want to take the world forward, not backwards. We're not going to save ourselves. Climate and environment are another field where the Centre Party is ambitious. It is speculated that there is no room for young women with great ambitions for a greener society in the Center Party. I can cancel that once and for all; we get a good place and come to terms with our opinions. We want trees in front of trees that rot on roots and emit almost the same amount of CO2. We want short-range food because we need food to live. We want short-range energy, because energy loses in transport. I'm proud to be a centralist. A historically good election result in the autumn of 2019 gives reason to rejoice at what our elected representatives will do in the whole country in terms of services close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1377	I hear that we all agree that we want to develop further. Oil, gas and hydropower revenues have been a huge source of welfare in Norway, and we will continue to manage them with care. Climate change and new technologies mean that we both need and can also greatly convert the energy nation of Norway. I hear from the debate, in particular, two elements that have been drawn forward, a little detached from the debate of the throne: it is the sample that has investigated hydropower taxation, and that is the framework plan for wind power. This tells me, as the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee, that we need to discuss energy more in Stortinget. It's both about taxes and concession terms and about new technologies and new opportunities. It cannot be that we throw the heirloom out of the bathtub by not upgrading old hydropower plants. After all, they are still an important source of the renewable transformation we are in. The regulatory capacity we have there is enormously important. Municipalities-Norway must also be involved in caring for and upgrading those facilities. There's a slightly different debate than that about the power of concession, because it's a compensation. That means it's important to discuss this. For the Left, which is the source of much of the concession, it is not appropriate to change those principles or to take large income from the municipalities. The state has a lot of money in Norway, among others. thanks to oil and gas revenues. We need to figure out the distribution of those revenues. The Prime Minister said earlier today that this is not an attempt at anything. But it's an important part of the future administration. We should also be careful to phase into community resources from new energy sources. Wind power today has conditions other than hydropower, but it also has e.g. small force. We need to balance this and achieve good common management and as much equality as possible between the different sources of renewable energy. The current digitisation creates new opportunities and also new challenges in obtaining the power and opportunities to float. How the government thinks about the wind framework, we get back to it. I hope the government will help us get good discussions in Stortingen about much of this. Something will be included in the Financial Committee, other parts of the Energy and Environment Committee. But I think it's important for the Storting that you join in discussing future here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1392	We in the Right are committed to keeping those who fall outside, and will pursue a policy for the weak that works. Many people are struggling with mental health. People with severe mental disorders have 15–20 years shorter life span than the rest of the population. This is something we take seriously, and this is something we'll do even more to prevent and remedy. We are implementing a number of measures at local and national level to strengthen mental health. At the turn of the year, six packages were introduced for people with mental and drug problems, and new packages are on the way. This summer, it was decided to strengthen the offer to people who have ADHD. The package trajectories contain measures to improve the health care of this group. Before the summer we presented a separate escalation plan for children and young people's mental health. The plan covers all children and young people between 0 and 25 years of age and will provide the basis for mastering their own challenges and for living a good life. An important service for children and young people is the health centre and the school health service. In the period from 2013 to 2019, the government has granted more than SEK 1.3 billion. kr for this service. From 2013 to 2017, we increased the number of yearly jobs in health and school health services by nearly 1,000 yearly jobs. The government is working on a new action plan to prevent suicide. The plan should be more knowledge-based and based on what we know has an impact. From next year, all municipalities are required to have their own psychologists. We're going to make sure that the municipalities' total resources are even better at meeting the people who need help and support. In 2019, there are almost 2,500 more annual works in municipal health and drug treatment than in 2016. This has led to a decrease in the waiting times for mental health protection. We're working to further reduce the waiting time. Yesterday it was known that a new package was introduced for pregnant women with drug problems. The new package should contribute to the detection and provision of assistance to more pregnant women with drug problems. This gives the newborn the best possible starting point, and the family gets the help they need. This is a package for two – for both the foetus and the pregnant woman. About 500 children are born each year with injuries caused by the use of alcohol by their mother. Alcohol is the most common drug among women of childbearing potential and the most dangerous to the foetus. It is high time these patients got more predictability, more security, more involvement and better treatment. The right has done a lot to keep people outside, and we're going to do a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1410	I'm a train commuter. Every day I travel with thousands of others on the Eastfold Railway to get into Oslo at work. Every morning I start by checking the Vy app. Is it going as normal today? Over time, we have experienced major problems with local train traffic in the capital area, and especially on the Eastfold Railway, which I know best. Lately, things have gone from bad to worse. In fact, I am uncertain whether it has been a single stable day after the end of the year's train season bus. When people extend back to the bus for trains, you can see that it is poorly set. The unstable offer creates problems in people's lives because you can't trust if you reach the job in the morning and kindergarten in the afternoon. But this also has major societal implications. This is socio-economic waste. It's a waste of people's time. There's a waste of valuable labour. For one of my many plays about the Eastfold Railway, I got the following comment: ‘When the opportunity came to an end, I quit full-time work in Oslo before the summer bus for trains. After connecting the working line with an unreliable and undersized train line for 35 years. Phu! Greetings fully employed former train commuter, now free-going ‘naver’ with alp and lower tax Sorry, society...’» [[...]] This is not the advice of the welfare state. We have to make sure that people are able to stand as far as possible at work. Then there are no more standing places on the trains I am talking about, but a comfortable and reliable offer to commuters. We can't afford people to stop trusting the train and start using the car for work again. In the metropolitan area, transport policy and public transport are central to achieving climate objectives. Oslo and Akershus have set themselves the goal of taking all traffic growth with public transport, bicycles and corridors. I've been trying to ride a bike too, I guess. It'll take too long. I still pess in the ground up to Nordstrand when the kindergarten in Ski stops. We need more trains, not more companies. We need more conductors, not more directors. We need to get to work, and we need to get to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1430	The representative of Melvær asked a question. She wondered if we should have a chaos policy that breaks in all directions, and whether that is an advantage for the districts. The answer to that is no. The answer is that this is the main problem with today’s government. But instead of spending so much time on it, I'd rather refer to an example and then go over to something positive. The centralisation of the courts is perhaps the most radical centralisation proposal promoted over the last 400 years in Norway, so it violates at least a good tradition of a predictable legal state. But then there were the positive possibilities. Norway is perhaps the easiest country to rule in the world today, much because of the wisest choices that have already been made in this room. We have large natural resources, skilled workers and high levels of participation in organisations. We must build on that for safe management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1439	A main story from the government party's members, and especially the Right's members, in this debate, has been telling of successful businesses that go well around the whole country. There's a lot of them, and we're all happy about it. One of the companies it is often referred to, both inside and outside this house, is the Brothers Aa in the village of Hyen in the Gloppen in Sogn and Fjordane. They have been groundbreaking in building boats in carbon fibers and focusing on environmentally friendly projects with electricity as a driving force in their work now – understandably both they and we residents in the country should be grateful for the government's policies that have led to the company's success. I myself have been visiting this company. She was established in 1947. She survived Gerhardsen, Borten, Korvald, Bratteli – and all later governments, and I'm overestimated that she will also survive the government of Solberg with a good margin. When I have been visiting there, I have not received a reply from the company management that they want more taxes and taxes, but I have also not received as the desired number one the opposite. The company management there has been busy with completely different questions. Three factors in particular have been raised when I have met them, but they may have said something else to the representatives of the government party. What I have got right about is that they need a safer way to the village of Hyen in the Gloppen. The second thing I got to the right is that broadband is important. For the company's part, it's in place, but the residents of Hyen, who are going to work at the factory, also need broadband in their homes to be able to build and live there in the future. The third thing they say is that they'll be attractive to the workforce, that people will come and bus themselves there, yes, they'll have to have services close to people. It is important to close them. This is a different message from the one repeatedly drawn from the speakers from the government. So I'm still a little uncertain about the ability to listen and take in the everyday life that many people experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1456	Roy Steffensen has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1461	This is the opposition's debate with many proposals, and I would just like to briefly explain why I will vote against proposal No. 28, on character-based recording. This proposal is at the heart of what drives me in politics. It's about moving power and decisions away from politicians and bureaucrats and over to every human being. That's what got me involved in politics. I think there are a lot of good reasons why students should have to choose school themselves. Free choice of schools encourages students to make an extra effort. And for us, it's important that students choose good schools regardless of where they live, and regardless of their parents' status and income. While the Workers' Party will fight for the power to determine where a student is going to go to school to be determined by politicians and bureaucrats, we fight for the students to have the freedom to choose school themselves. A greater decentralization of power than free choice of school should you look for a long time, and I'm curious if the Center Party will agree with us for decentralization, or whether they will centralize this power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1470	It's always interesting to hear the representative Westgaard-Halle from the Right. There is rarely a debate without attempts to caricify the Central Party's climate policy and district policy. Westgaard-Halle takes on the role of Right District Salibi because she lives on the farm in Westfold. Even I live on the other side of the fjord, in Eastfold, and we notice the centralization very well. The municipality I live in is going to join four other municipalities and become the Inner Eastfold municipality. One of the main arguments of the Right People in that process was that a large and robust municipality would help maintain state jobs and services. So now there's a proposal to drop the hedge and the frogland thing right and move it to Follo. There are suggestions to shut down the traffic station and move it to Follo, and even though the municipalities themselves, together with the Ministry of Justice at the time, in 2013 helped build a solid and robust police station in Askim, it has not kept the services, as we were promised. No, this government has helped to centralize further. It has removed the foreign office from the police station, it has moved the passport office, and it has moved other services to Follo. So a region with 50,000 inhabitants is not robust enough for this government, because centralization will never end. Nor is it always the case that the digital world has come to such a central place as Eastfold. Going in and looking at the broadband map, which is produced every year, the household coverage for high-speed broadband is actually better in Finnmark than in Eastfold. It also says its own about this with the digitisation of services. There are also large dark areas when it comes to solid mobile coverage. In Eastfold we have many proud towns along the coast with both industrial history and defence history: Halden, Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg and Moss. Before we connected cities with a minimum of offers, but this government also emptys the cities for offers. Now the moss, Fredrikstad, Halden and Sarpsborg district courts are to be centralised and merged. Police reform has led to a reduction in the presence of police in these cities. The centralisation of the tax rate is another example of something that has lost cities for services. So centralization goes not only beyond the districts, but also beyond the cities. This is not about Norway changing, as government representatives keep saying. This is a deliberate policy that creates differences and changes the country in the wrong direction. Centralisation is a self-enhancing force, but this government removes all brakes and instead gives gas for more centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1483	Security in people’s everyday lives is essential to living a good life. That is why I am very pleased with the goal of a more effective police force by using new technology, and that adapting efforts to a new crime scene was emphasised in the census. We in this room know very well that people in Norway too experience strong social control, and that many women and children live with violence and abuse. Fortunately, the government has shown a great willingness to invest in the measures of the escalation plan against violence and abuse, and close to 1 billion. kr per year goes to this very important purpose. But it has to be more than the police. There are many small and large concrete measures that together are important and crucial in tackling such a major societal problem. This week I was so lucky that I got to be with the Prime Minister when she opened Norway's first national guide for people who are exposed to violence in close relations and sexual abuse. No one shall be left alone in such traumatic experiences. We know what that can do to us humans. The fact that we have now opened up a national low-threshold offer to violent and perpetrators, I believe is one of many very important steps in the government’s work against violence and abuse. The importance of this cannot be overestimated. That is why I am also very pleased that the government has started work on a new national action plan against violence in close relations. Violence and assault, we know, is a problem not just in Norway. This year, the Children's Convention celebrates 30 years, more specifically on 20 November. Article 34 emphasises that all children are to be protected from sexual assault. It's a fight we fight nationally, but it's also something that I'm very proud that the Progress Party and the rest of the government are involved in taking responsibility for international. This summer I was on one of my life's perhaps toughest trips. It went to the Philippines, specifically Manila. I visited the ECPAT’s sister organisation to focus on just a few issues related to assault abroad. I think it's very big to be able to stand here today and say that we got a confirmation this summer that the Minister of Justice has notified us of a police position in the Philippines. It becomes very important as part of international work to take these criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1498	The representative Tellef Inge Mørland has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1503	Justice is something that most people are concerned about. Justice may be the most important role of the courts. This week there are two things that have really caused people's sense of justice. One is the proposal of the government's court commission to shut down 38 courts, where Agder is also hit hard. The other thing is about the tax on power. I have received massive feedback from municipalities at Agder. Where is the fairness of taking from small districts the income that allows them to grow and develop? I'm going to use a picture that I hope the Christian People's Party representatives in this Chamber in particular will understand: what this government is doing in district policy feels like David's fight against Goliath. It's perfectly permissible for the government to cheer on Goliath, but especially sympathetically it is not. For all those who pride themselves on David in district policy, and who have the hope that David and Goliath do not have to beat each other in half, but rather can live together as ‘town and country — hand in hand’, it’s just to cheer us up in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1512	Our parliamentary leader, Terje Breivik, opened the debate with the Left, stressing that Norway's only social liberal party is the Left. Future optimism and belief in the inviolable freedom of man are values of social liberalism. I am pleased that he just chose to emphasize these values in his article yesterday. There is freedom and faith in the future that makes, among other things, I became a member of this party. I saw that liberals were people who wanted to create something, who had faith in their own ability to make a difference in their community. The fight for freedom is not always a snorkel – we see conflicts all over the world. But the urge for freedom is always present. That's the way it is in today's Norway. As a member of the nutrition committee, I have been privileged and met hundreds of people who have the urge to freedom and the optimism of the future in their hearts. I'm talking about self-employed people – people with sweaty throats, people who themselves fold up their sleeves to get it done. They are motivated and stimulated to create something new, and not least to solve challenges. They will give themselves a better future, and common to them is that their own drive to create opportunities is not only for themselves, but also for others. Your ambition to deliver to our common well-being we should be grateful for, and that they dare to bet on their own ideas. They are self-employed, who like to dress up, who constantly think about what opportunities the future will provide. They don't always look back at what has been, but they take it with them as an experience. They need to create their own and others' jobs, and it requires freedom – freedom to experiment to succeed, but also to walk the doll. It's the creative process that politicians have to fend for. They don't need us to create the jobs, even though many people on this pulpit today and yesterday have just claimed it. No, they need to be responsible for clearing the way for self-employed people, who will try to bet on something new, and who will take the risk it entails. Our task is to make it simpler and safer. Job creation is what they stand for. It is freedom in its ultimate consequence: the freedom to succeed, but also the freedom to fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1523	I have to make a few comments that the Workers' Party announced that they want to support a Senterparti proposal to explore the scope of the EEA Agreement. I must say I am very surprised. The Workers' Party is therefore in favour of a proposal from the Centre for the EEA Agreement, and all of us in the Chamber know that it is not with the intention of strengthening the EEA Agreement, but to find an alternative or weaken it. The representative Gahr Støre was not only clear that he would be involved in the three areas mentioned in the proposal – no, he could also look at the action space throughout the EEA Agreement. In my opinion, it is weak for the Workers' Party not to be able to resist such a proposal. That's three things. Firstly, the agreement that gives us the most influence is the one that makes us part of the EU. Sitting in the room where the decisions are made gives more influence than being on the outside. Secondly, once we have the agreement we have, of course, the government is taking care to fight for national interests in the individual cases, but going from there to the decision to ask the government to investigate the wide-ranging scope of action in the main trade agreement we have, I believe, to go far too far. It is to be fleshed with the agreement, and it is at a time when there is a trade war, international trade is under pressure – the worst possible time. Thirdly, it is a difficult task for the government to respond to such an order, because exploiting a space of action is also based on political judgement – whether you want it or not. I can't see that in any way the Center Party will ever agree that an investigation by a bourgeois and right-wing government will be good enough for them. Why would it be? The last time the EEA Agreement was investigated on a large scale was under the Stoltenberg Government, which in 2012 delivered a NOU called Outside and Inside. It had, with the Central Party in government, neither the mandate to explore alternatives nor the space for action and its exploitation. So now the working party goes further than they've ever done in the EEA-critical direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1541	The President of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, visited Norway in September. He met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and the Crown Prince, and his Deputy Minister of State met the Foreign and Defence Committee of the United Kingdom. Abbas wants, among other things: more money from Norwegian taxpayers to finance schools. It is not so amazing, but in parallel with this beggar's behaviour to Norway and Europe, Palestinian self-government agencies pay millions through the so-called martyr's fund to Palestinians who are imprisoned in Israel for acts of terrorism. This is the reward for terror and the maintenance of a martyr's cult that will continue to spread hatred and demand innocent blood. There is therefore no lack of money in the Palestinian self-government authorities – there is a lack of morality. At the same time, the Palestinian authorities are being silenced by the way Israeli housing policy destroys the peace process, incarcerations and tortures journalists, activists and oppositionists. Internet activity is monitored and the right to express oneself freely restricted. We are not hearing anything about this in the Norwegian media, because it is drawing black and white – Israel against Palestine, Israel is the strong and the evil, the Palestinians are sorry and have to be helped. The world has turned its head. Not enough for the only liberal democracy of the Middle East to be boycotted politically – it must also be boycotted culturally and academically. This boycott has broad support on the extreme left and the extreme right side of Norway. Here, the extremes of discretion operate together. Both Red, NKP and the Nazi organisation Vigrid want academic and cultural boycotts from Israel. There's something ripping wrong when an artist like Aurora is criticized for having two concerts in Tel Aviv. Tel Aviv is the city considered to be the most liberal in the Middle East, where homosexuals from the Palestinian territories have a sanctuary. So Israel is one of the most robust democracies in the world, which has survived against all odds. This should be at a time when democratic values and freedom of expression are under pressure. This applies not least in the Palestinian territories. I have an explanation of vote. Like previous speakers, the Progress Party will also vote against proposal No. 11, because we believe that such an examination of the space for action in the EEA Agreement can be made in the context of the European declaration coming later in the autumn. Then we all have the opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1552	Thank you for a good debate. I feel that the government is providing an overview of everything it thinks it has done – it is doing so much better. It's not unexpected after six years, it's an instinct that in itself is recognizable from a government that's been sitting for so long – and I'm talking about experience. But I don't think there's any more perspective and a boost to what the 2020s are facing from challenges. The line of attack from the right has been quite recognizable: the Labour Party is opposed to reforms, the Labour Party is following parties that are outside of us in the eyes of society. It's wrong, it's unhistorical, and it's really irreparable in the debate. The Labour Party has been a reform party in this country, taking courageous, big reforms. We've funded them, and we've made them on the assumption that everyone's going. It should be fair, there should be an effort from the community to keep people from standing on the platform. We have done that, and we have done it in an inclusive way – the pension reform is the last example of it. The right has an argument that goes on and on, and that's to say that the two of us – the Right Party and the Workers Party – are the governing parties, but the Workers' Party is failing. There's an undertone in it that being a governing party in Right rhetoric, is being like Right, thinking like Right, pointing out the social direction as Right. But we're not such a governing party. When we rule, there are a number of other considerations that are needed for this society to be balanced and to take the best of the people on the team. These include: having as a very important premise that we should succeed in the process of conversion – and we always have that clear in this country – is because we have little differences, justice and high trust. Increasing differences are married to conversion, and the Prime Minister so far out in his answers to me today that she is concerned about increasing inequality. But the question is, when it increases year by year, both what we can measure, and what we can observe, how far should it go? Is there a development we just have to see going one way, helped with unsocial tax cuts and unsocial policies? Some of the areas where we're really going to need high trust and cohesion are in contact with the environment. Also, science has to give us advice on how to make the right decisions. The Labour Party believes that a strong industry with competence and knowledge and a state that plays a team must do to bring about that change. That's one of the big tasks we should be discussing, not the small discussions we get, where a green proposal from the government is zeroed out of a gray proposal from the government. With regard to the EEA action room, there is also a question of applying for knowledge. The working party is based on the EEA Agreement, but we are developing it because we actually have the ability to discuss how to use it. When even the Centre Party opens up to look at all the benefits of the EEA Agreement by being able to do it better, I would like to welcome it. That is why we are voting in favour of this proposal, which, as far as I understand, is going to be thoroughly downgraded, but at least we have expressed our views on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1569	I too would like to thank you for a good debate. First, an explanation of vote on behalf of the four government parties: we will support two of the proposals tabled by the Labour Party, namely proposal No. 26, which I expect my good colleague Hans Fredrik Gruvan to say something about the premises for in his post, and proposal No. 36, in the amended version delivered by the Workers' Party today. It's about Syria and children, and it's about an account in an appropriate way for the Storting. That proposal will be supported by the government parties, as we want that matter to be clarified, but with the limitations that lie in the different security aspects of the situation down there. I think there have been many good and clarifying answers, both from their own party traps, from other government parties and, to some extent, from the opposition to some important issues. The representative Gahr Støre had an post now where he thought it was a little unfair that the right expected the Workers' Party to be like the Right. No, we don't expect that, but if one is to be a governing party or a party that wants to be holistic, we expect – and would have believed – that predictability, and not turning into positions from one day to another, not only in one case, but in several cases, will be the line of the Workers' Party. We think it's been a little too much lately, and we've also pointed that out. I think it must be reasonable to be able to point it out when a party that concludes agreements on reforms and decisions is constantly turning to its positions – in school policy, in police reform and in other things. It has to be allowed to point that out. We hope the Labour Party does not become like the Right, it would be boring. We hope that we can have each of our political directions. But we expect consistency and predictability. With that, I hope that the two proposals that we have now supported will be adopted and that the others will be voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1584	I would also like to thank you for the debate. In fact, it is a bit in the nature of the matter that the opposition should criticise and be negative to the policy of the government – despite the fact that we have a situation where there is a record in the number of new businesses. Jobs are created, there is increasing employment, and unemployment is very low. Yesterday, the Labour Party tried to criticise the government because employment was not at the same level as in the 2008 derogation year. We all know what happened before 2008, and we also know what happened after 2008, in the red-green years. I think that rhetoric was thoroughly parked yesterday. The working line is important, but it is a paradox that whenever the government proposes changes to public schemes to strengthen the working line, the opposition is opposed. There are very few who talk about value creation, which is the whole foundation for having good social arrangements, and that we have a welfare system that works and captures those who need it. The representative Lightbakken said that the government, through tax relief, gives money to the rich, that there are gifts to the rich. It's completely wrong. Tax relief means that people get to keep more of their own income and value creation. So it's kind of turning a little bit upside down. I think many theorists on the left should try a little in the workplace, not necessarily on the floor – like it too – but they should follow a manager in a small or medium-sized enterprise, most of which is in Norway. They should share his or her concerns in everyday life – concerns not about lack of profit maximisation, but about daily earnings, about competition with others in the same industry, about how to achieve good results, how to reach new customers, and not least about the concern and care of employees who are to be paid each month. It's the everyday life of Norwegian businesses, and we're going to be incredibly happy that there's someone who dares to bet and dares to take risks and creates businesses. I would also like to extend a thank you to the representative Martin Kolberg because he mentioned us as right-wing librarians and not right-wing populists. I think he deserves a thank you for that. Then I agree with the explanation of vote put forward by the representative of Greece on behalf of the four government parties. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1601	There have been some features of this debate that have been interesting. There has been a debate that is strangely disconnected from the choice we have just been through. The choice gave some clear signals. This may include: a clear indication of a different direction from centralisation, but it has in some way been completely absent in these two days of debate. On the other hand, many of the government's speakers have been above the opposition, and in particular the views of the Central Party regarding centralisation. Government lots should be more concerned with voters than with the opposition in this room. It is possible that the Right finds comfort in the concept of ‘management party’ – otherwise a rather new concept in Norwegian policy – but it is not they, after this election, in many of Norway’s municipalities. What the government seems to expect is that people should deal with the mantra that has still been left in this debate, that it is going so well. But the problem with the government parties is that they don't listen. They do not listen to, among other things: The federal guerrillas and the other strong responses that have come — about the closure of higher education institutions, about out-of-control predatory policies, about a police reform that does not work. The guerrilla is an example and a symbol. They're here today waiting for the Storting to vote on the Central Party's proposal not to shut down the maternity ward, and they're responding to developments. People aren't going to accept the planned closure in the public sector that we've seen in District Norway in recent years. People are not going to accept an a and b layer in terms of basic preparedness in Norway, infrastructure and services. That's the problem – not the opposition in Stortinget. The second strange feature of the debate is something that the representative Svein Roald Hansen has pointed out, namely that the spokespersons of the government parties in this debate have talked more about their own party policy than about the government project. And that might be indicative of the situation we're in. I also have to say that I think it is a little remarkable to look at the Right-Fundamentalism in terms of the EU and the EEA. Not even going through the action space of today's EEA agreement can one reflect on the Right side. Not even getting the knowledge will be a part of it. I believe that this is the basis for commending the Workers' Party that they will vote in favour of such a proposal. As far as explanations of vote are concerned, the Central Party will vote in favour of all proposals except for proposal No. 1, where we choose instead to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal. Nor do we vote in favour of the proposals. 24, 30, 31, 38, 41, 42. We ask that proposal No. 6 is converted into a transmission proposal with amendments to the text resulting from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1614	Let me first point out one thing I think has been missing in this debate. I think it would be natural when the Greatness now gathers for the first time in several months, that what happened earlier in the harvest related to the attempt on terror against Norwegian Muslims in Bærum, had been more likely to be up in the debate, simply because it is the Storting and the government's responsibility to ensure the security of Muslim Northmen, who are concerned about the situation behind it. It has hardly been a theme at all. Several articles have been submitted by SV. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to come to that at the end, because it has been promised by the government that it will address the work of an action plan against Islamophobia and Muslim hatred. I think it would be good if the Prime Minister could both underline the importance of it and inform the Storting a little about what kind of process we can expect around it. So until that debate has taken place: there is a huge gap between the level of self-satisfaction of the government parties and the lack of satisfaction of the people with the government. That gap they almost reflect on themselves, but it's obvious that even though the government parties are popular with themselves, they're quite unpopular with the people. I think this is because in some important areas Norway is on its way in a direction that is very worrying. It's about the paralysis of action in the face of the climate crisis. We have also seen in this debate that concrete proposals, from the SV and other parties, linked to a green transition, linked to the development of a social plan – even such a simple proposal as the setting down of a green new deal commission – meet with zero goodwill from the government parties. It's a government that doesn't have a plan for the biggest challenge we're facing. The popular unrest is also strong over the increasing inequality of power and wealth. Here we have seen government parties again – speaking of what the representative Limi raised about being disconnected from the reality of people – not at all meet the many people who are concerned about that development, for example. all the evidence that has come to light on the consequences of the new cut in redundancy pay. The same is true of the concerns about centralisation. The Bunads guerrilla is here today, it's good. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal to reduce food supply. But the government parties are also turning their backs on the popular unrest. SV is an inclusive, red-green lot. We are going to vote for most of the proposals from the other red-green parties, with a few exceptions that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1627	There are many arrows that point the right way in terms of development in our country. It is employment growth and fewer unemployed. But that doesn't mean we're going to cover the challenges we're facing in the future. The debate has underlined that, despite the fact that much is going well in Norway, trends such as demographic change, climate challenges, migration challenges and more poor families represent the need for new measures and migration. One of the main challenges is to raise the poorest in our country. It is worrying that the number of children growing up in poor families is increasing. Child poverty in today’s Norway is largely about children experiencing exclusion from social cohesion because of the family’s financial situation. It is therefore important that all children should be given the opportunity to experience belonging to important social arenas, regardless of their parent’s economy. Therefore, it is also important that we put in place measures to help solve this challenge, by shortening the path to working life, by investing in a good school with more teachers and fewer pupils per teacher in order to be able to see and follow-up the individual student, and not least through targeted measures such as a strong increase in child benefit for children from 0 to 6 years of age, free core time in kindergarten for children from low-income families, increased holiday support for holidays for children from poor families, and increased one-off birth and adoption support, to mention some of the measures taken by this government. In addition, we introduce leisure cards so that more children are not prevented from taking part in leisure activities because of poor finances. Looking beyond the borders of the country – and we should do that, as one of the world's richest countries – it meets us a world where, in the last four years, more and more people have been in a situation of hunger and uncertainty linked to whether they are able to get enough nutritious food and food. This is a challenge that this government takes very seriously, and wants to do something about it. So in the debate these two days, I have noticed very different approaches to the different challenges that it partly agrees on. One thing is that the government parties and the opposition have different solutions, but it is also interesting to note that among the opposition parties there is a big gap in the vision of the solutions. While the Workers' Party stresses that the time for reforms is not over, the Centre Party rejects the need for all new reforms. So what kind of political solutions an opposition to the seventh and last will choose, it's not quite easy to get clear answers to. So one explanation of vote: we are voting like the other parties to the government for the motions Nos. 26 and 36, and I refer to the explanation of vote of the representative of Greece. As regards proposal No: 26, we just want to stress that we are concerned that higher education institutions should focus on their regional responsibilities and provide decentralised education throughout the country. That we're voting for the proposal doesn't mean that our universities and colleges don't do it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1640	In the debate, both the Progress Party and the Right have stated that the Labour Party follows the Red in the debate on commercial welfare, as if there were something negative. If that's true, that's good news. Then the Labour Party follows the majority will of the population. In that case, they are with us to ensure that the tax money goes to well-being, not to private profit. In particular, it is also reasonable for those with capital to use it to invest in business rather than to obtain a suction tube in the treasury. So it remains to be seen whether the Workers' Party does as the Advance Party and the Right claims. They have unfortunately voted in favour of our proposals to stop the profit from well-being. But things can happen in the future. Then we have a party that often claims to defend national interests, namely the Progress Party, but which is therefore so flat for the European Union that they vote against a proposal to investigate the scope of action in the EEA Agreement. Something more EU-loyal than such a party is almost hard to find in the Storting, and it doesn't say much about that party. We have a proposal on wind power, to put the expansion at rest until the Stortinge gets to deal with the entire wind energy framework. That's because you've given concession to different wind turbines without seeing the interference in nature in the context. Then nature is built down a bit by bit, and there is a great threat to biodiversity and to vulnerable nature that creates enormous commitment out there in the population. So I hope we can get the bulk of the population to pull in the emergency brake until the Storting gets to see this in full, along with the other wind framework plan, which should come to Stortinget for treatment. With regard to our proposal on the air ambulance, it is that when you look at the tender documents, the operator has a responsibility to deliver an availability of more than 95 pst., although they have said something else in the media. This requirement lies there. There is a public demand for the availability of ambulance aircraft on which they should deliver. If not, the contract should be terminated in our view. Finally, in our view, it is strange that a party like the Central Party is voting against our proposal that the emissions cuts that we have to go through should be done in a socially fair way. That is necessary, we believe, in order to bring about a new transformation if necessary. This should be done in the interests of all parties – and in accordance with the Danish model. They have therefore voted in favour of this in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1653	Since several of the parliamentary leaders have re-signed, Prime Minister Erna Solberg will be released before that round.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1658	At the end of such a debate, it's always interesting to make some reflections about what you've been listening to. I think there have been many good posts, many exciting things, but I have a relatively deep worry: We are quite pleased that Norwegian economy is doing well. It's possible that it makes people think that we can just go on like before, but we can't. We are facing major shifts for this society – both in terms of climate emissions and economic sustainability, because oil activity will gradually decline and give less growth in the future. Then it's to stand still, not to make changes, the same as pushing even bigger changes ahead of it. If we do not dare to make small changes in good times, we must make major changes in bad times. It will mean much more radical centralization and degradation. It means much bigger challenges if we don't tackle those changes at an early stage. That is why I have a fundamental concern when I hear this debate: one cannot have taken seriously the transformation Norway has to undergo in the next decades – both to reduce emissions and to ensure sustainability in the future. I have listened to the debate and thought that something has changed in the course of my rather long life as a great representative. We have always boasted that we are discussing different solutions to the issues, but we do not question each other's motives. I've heard a lot of that in this debate. It sounds like the government doesn't care about people living in the districts. There is a new change in Norwegian debate, which is a polarising way to argue – instead of arguing about the content of the solutions to the issues. The second thing that we have written about in Norway is the investigation system, where we spend time getting a professional basis – having hearings and listening to the hearings before political life takes a stand on matters. This week, many political parties have taken their stand on matters before they have been on the hearing, before anyone has been given their opinion. One pushes forward a process where one of the most important foundations of democracy in Norway, listening to all the voices, does not work. There is a whole new perspective in Norwegian policy, where the need to highlight issues is ahead of what has been a thorough way of dealing with political and structural issues for a long time. I should like to mention two examples: I hear that the government has made a proposal for a change in court. We haven't done that, we haven't dealt with it at all. We have heard many times in the election campaign that we have proposed to lay down a hospital in Lake Sandness. We have not proposed to lay down a hospital in Lake Sandness. There is still work to be done on how the hospital structure in Helgeland should be, and the government has not taken a decision on any of these questions. We should perhaps go back to what was a pretense for Norwegian democracy: we had a factual basis, took a stand when everyone was heard, and then we had a good political debate on what choices we made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1676	I think the Prime Minister had a very wise last minute of his post. I think it's very important to point out the depth of the matter. Let me not go on the motifs, but on the content. I believe that one thing this government is going to bring with it is that it has put the term ‘reform’ in an exposed position. If you used the requirements of thoroughness, consultation, science, listening to people, as the Prime Minister mentioned here, and had set them as a goal for regional reform, she would have failed on point by point – have not listened to people, not been balanced, not seen the country as a whole. That is why the popular protests are coming. The Labour Party is in itself a Reform Party. We've never believed in standing still. We have to be in the process of development, and we have to make sure that development takes everyone along. But I now experience that when there are discussions about reform, the concept of reform is discredited by the experience of government policy. A year ago, the Christian People's Party believed that the sum of the government's reforms was district hostile. I asked the Vice President of the Christian People's Party in the election campaign about how this had happened after they had been in government for six months. Then the answer was, yes, the reforms are a little less district hostile. It's a comfort. It's not as bad as it was. But I believe that by implementing reforms in that way and in the context of this government, where people experience that there is reform on reform with the headlines that it will become more robust by contracting, people lose influence. It was said from Greece that the Workers' Party will not undertake reforms and that we will not stand by them. We are not consistent and predictable. No, we're not consistent with Right Policy when we look at implementation. When we make a defense settlement that the Minister of Defense says is not worth the paper it's written on, because now is the new thing, or we see a police reform that we took the initiative to, because it was necessary, as it was said, when we looked at Norway in 2011, but where people, police, employees and local authorities are experiencing that the implementation is going in the wrong direction, I believe it is predictable when the Labour Party says that this is not something we can take responsibility for. Then we're going to have a different policy, give a different priority to the money. I repeat that it is a very important premise to succeed in the transformations we face in the 2020s, and I agree with the Prime Minister that it can become more demanding. We may have to do more in times that are more urgent. Now the government hasn't stopped expanding in the good times we've had, it has to be said, but I'm concerned that the resources, high trust and small differences are crucial to fence around. It is going in the wrong direction today, and it makes us worse with the policy being pursued. A new majority must address this in order for Norway to be at its best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1687	Let me first comment on the representative of Gruvan, who pointed out that there were differences between the opposition parties. Yeah, it's not very eye-catching, we're different parties and we don't have any obsessive cooperation. What is more eye-catching during this debate is that the government parties and representatives of the government parties have expressed quite different things – different things apart, and different things from what is the common government project. No, things don't stand still in Norway. Norway is converting and has constantly done so. There are many angry people in Norway who have contributed to that transition. We've been good at it in Norway, and that makes sense. What this government is doing is something completely different. They are systematically and systematically centralising this country, and the government has today confirmed that they will continue to consult on power taxes and courts. In fact, for the first time in the Chamber today, the Prime Minister acknowledges that she centralises, that the government centralises, that her conversion is a liquidation and transfer of services to the big cities. It is not natural that you should drop almost two thirds of the courts in Norway and move them to the most important cities in Norway. It is not natural, it is a political decision. It's not natural for you to overrun the majority in Finnmark who want to survive as their own state. It is not natural for you to accept the closure of ambulances, maternity wards, nurse training in Lake Sandness and the Nesna College. These are political decisions. But it is enough that it has become too expensive for the Right to take care of Norway. The right has become a party that believes in parts of Norway. The Center Party believes in all of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1694	If you're going to teach someone, you almost have to have authority on what you're trying to teach someone about. I noticed that the Prime Minister was trying to teach the opposition two things. One is concerned about the economy. Well, with the level of use of money that this Prime Minister has stood for, she does not have the authority needed to teach in that area. Then there was also a lecture on polarizing rhetoric. Yes, if I was the Prime Minister who took the Advance Party into the government, I would be careful to teach the opposition about polarizing rhetoric as well. But it was really the representative of Gruvan who made me take the floor again, because he described the ‘point’ of the opposition in terms of various proposals and solutions. We're different parties, so we mean different things, we. I think the most eye-catching specter revealed in this debate is the gap between the Christian People's Party thought a year ago, and what they mean today, especially with regard to social issues and the consideration of those who have the least in Norwegian society. The Christian People's Party has been a party in which we have been able to trust in combating the unsocial cuts that Right has wanted, for example. to protect the underage pension and to stand up for a redundancy scheme to take care of and follow up people instead of giving up people. Before the blue election, the Christian People's Party was also a party that voted against that kind of thing, which was to keep the shielding of disability in the pension system, which was against the blue-blue cut in redundancy money. But now we have been told in the debate on the throne that this is not the only thing that the Christian People's Party is involved in in government – they're not even forced to do it, we heard from Ropstad yesterday – they're too cut off in redundancy money. They think it's good. It's honest, but it shows very clearly the consequences of the blue orientation of the Christian People's Party, because what that means is that these cuts couldn't happen if the Christian People's Party had entered into another cooperation or remained in opposition. This means that the Christian People's Party is responsible for the cuts that now hit, people who have little, disabled, youth on redundancy pay. I think that with all the highest level of discussion about values that were last autumn, there are some people who may be a little surprised that the choice they ended up taking was support for a policy that gives more to the billionaires, and less to the destitute and the youth who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1705	I thought I would first answer what Audun Lysbakken asked about in his previous post, which was about the action plan against Muslim hatred, which the government is working on. We initially had an action plan against racism — we also come along — which would also involve some of the same challenges and questions, but we see the need, perhaps in particular, to highlight the measures that concern the increased fear of the Norwegian population against Muslims — totally unfounded — and the measures to address it, in a separate action plan. Record meetings have been held with both Muslim organisations and other immigrant organisations, and we must continue to work to find the right, concrete and appropriate measures in this regard. This is in line with what I have been talking about for many years, even after July 22, when I said that much of the Muslim talk in these conspiratory environments sounds like the Jewish one in the 1930s. Then I got a lot of shutting down, because you thought that was not right or that was the wrong composition. I still believe that in some environments – and they probably spread more – rhetoric is used, which is based on some conspiracy theories and fears, which are unreasonable. One of the challenges is that the increasing number of IS terrorist attacks around Europe and the rest of the world has contributed to increased focus on Islam, Muslims and extremism — and increased fear in many places. It is important that we show the difference between what is moderate and completely peaceful religious practice, the more than 99 pst. of all Muslims in Norway believe in, related to the few who have extremist thoughts. The answers I received from Marit Arnstad prove in many ways that we have moved into Norwegian politics. It is necessary to do things, including: because the demographic changes in Norway are significant. This government is just moving jobs from the big cities to other places. We've moved out of Oslo significantly to secure employment elsewhere. In the reorganization of structures, we are just trying to facilitate not adding it to the very largest locations, but we are providing employment where there is a good enough basis of competence for it. Therefore, we have good figures that we have moved out more jobs than others, and that the shifts we have had, and the total of the shifts, show that employment in the state of Oslo is falling. Our response to developments in District Norway is not public jobs, but actually to make the conditions of Norwegian business so good that the natural resources of Norway's districts are built on, the driving force and attractiveness are also for the future, so that jobs are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1718	I think this is what the Right doesn't understand, but as people understand, this isn't just something that happens, it's not just a development that goes its way. I think most people understand that this is a planned, guided and systematic thinking from the Right and the Advance Party of Government. We noticed that already in 2014. The various centralisation reforms have come in line, and everyone has had the same result: they must be completed in District Norway and built around the major cities. It's the police reform, it's the municipal reform, it's the county reform, it's the central emergency services, and so now the courts are at stake. It's a term in the exact same type of thinking. There has been no sailing on a mountain – this is a planned development, for which the Right Party and the Advance Party have stood. What was interesting in the previous reply from the Prime Minister today is that she acknowledged for the first time that she wants and believes that centralisation is right. It was a little new, because it has somehow tried to avoid taking the position so clearly. We've been told that in this round, and that's interesting. That's also why I say that the Right no longer believes in Norway. Right believe in parts of Norway, because they think it is too expensive to deal with people throughout Norway and the services that people throughout Norway should be entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1729	A small comment to the representative Lightbakken's assessment of the Christian People's Party in government and in opposition: the Christian People's Party has in no way changed its commitment or political focus in assisting those who are weakest and who are lowest in our society, not least in terms of poverty issues. When we have been involved in changing the AAP system, it is about the fact that there has initially been a cross-political agreement that something had to be done with that system, because we saw that it did not work properly and could represent a locking mechanism. There's going to be an evaluation of the scheme, and then we're going to see if there's something we should change. Of course, if that's an unfortunate outcome we have to correct, we're going to be involved. Otherwise, I just want to remind you that no one has contributed to such a sharp increase in child welfare, which is a targeted measure to help those families with the lowest income, such as the Christian People's Party, both in opposition and now in government. We've increased the minimum pension for lone minimum pensioners. We have, along with the other government parties, been involved in introducing free core time into the kindergarten for children from low-income families. We have also increased support for holiday measures for children from poor families. Not least, we have also helped to increase the one-off grant at birth and adoption to those who are not entitled to parental leave. These are important and targeted measures that show a clear and clear social profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1740	I promise that soon everyone will take Friday, but Marit Arnstad's posts could not be contradicted. I have not admitted that there is a planned and conscious centralization government going on, but I have said that we have addressed some challenges that exist in Norwegian society, in order to raise the quality. The police reform is an answer to that. When the police chief in Finnmark says that without the police reform, they wouldn't find out about the three-year-old girl they've now taken out of an assault relationship, because they didn't have the opportunity to see it, it's not about a centralisation reform. It's about reaching the weakest in our society. It is about ensuring the legal certainty of those we have overlooked for so long, and as has been said in this room that more needs to be done to find. We need to have professional environments, knowledge and competence to do that. This is just one example of what we're seeing now is one of the major challenges in the police districts: that when you've gathered power and worked more with assaults, it reveals the number of darkness and abuse situations you don't have before, and that's very demanding and heavy stuff. There are some heavy driving forces in Norwegian society, which are not least about demography, which means that we have to provide services in a different way. We're busy having a district perspective on it and making sure the services come out, but at the bottom is that we have to move from managing each other to having more services out with people. This means that public, in the form of the state, should use fewer resources and that municipalities should have more resources. This government has just done the grips that make municipalities more resources close to people, because it's in the care of the elderly and in the first-line service we're going to need more resources in the years to come. My answer to the Center Party is, what is their answer to the points of gravity and the changes that are taking place, and the conversion needs that we are going to have in the future? Already in 10 years, a number of municipalities in Norway are expected to have more pensioners than are economically active. In that case, services are to be provided, but there is a contradiction between the need for stronger municipalities, which are able to provide those services. What is their answer? Are we going to use digitalization or not to modernise services, so that we can use less to register and do this physically, and instead can do this automatically, so that we have money for more policemen, more people in defense and more people in hospitals? These are the dilemmas we're facing. It means changes and changes. If we say no to all of this, it's going to get worse in a few years, because then we have to make bigger cuts in services, and the public sector is going to be behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1755	I think in this round we actually see the Right True Face. I think we see the Right True Face: they really think it's okay to build down the public sector. Then it's easiest to start in the districts, and therefore they started there. And it's clear it's planned, what's been going on since 2014 – that's clear it is. One started with the police reform, one continued deliberately with the municipal reform and the regional reform, one did a lot on the emergency services and the ambulance service – and in addition on maternity wards – and then one now comes with the judicial reform, with which the government has confirmed that it will go further. The Prime Minister says that you have moved out a lot of government jobs. The point is that there are hundreds of state jobs that are now disappearing from the districts, and if one goes further with the Court Commission, new hundreds of state jobs will disappear from the districts. It is also a little revealing when the Prime Minister talks about important welfare as if it were about administering each other. Most of what happens in public welfare in districts is about welfare services; it's not about administering each other. And the small municipalities are good municipalities, especially on the broad welfare tasks, such as care for the elderly, kindergarten, primary school – they're good at, better than many of the large municipalities. Nevertheless, magnification is the only solution on the right. As far as police reform is concerned, almost none of the employees are satisfied. One of the spokesmen of the Joint Police Department said that in eleven of the 12 police districts there is now a crisis. One gives way to important aspects of police activity, such as local knowledge and prevention, without a thorough and continuous discussion. So the prime minister said that if we don't centralize now, it'll be even more centralization later on. Yes, that's where we in the Center Party divide teams with the Right, because the Center Party believes that a different political direction is both possible and necessary. We're not fatalists, the way the Right is. We want to create a society where you have equivalence across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1766	It's been talking about distrusting the motives of others, but I think the opposite is true here: I think so well about the motives of the Christian People's Party that I refuse to believe that they really think these unsocial cuts are a good idea. That's why I'm amazed that the representative of Gruvan can make it go up that a year ago the Christian People's Party was cut off in redundancy money, but now it's too, and that somehow there's some kind of logical relationship between the two, because that's not it. If you're against a poverty line based on the fact that if people just get poor, they're going to get healthy and get into work, one against it both in 2018 and 2019, I think. One is not a little bit for that one year and a little bit for that the second year. Then I think it would be more honest to admit that this is the price to pay for the cooperation with the right-hand side – then one has to be involved in implementing the social cut of the right-hand side instead of pretending that the Christian People's Party suddenly thinks that sick people are getting better off getting poorer. I actually think so much about the representative Gruvan that I think he doesn't believe it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1771	Towards the end of the debate, it's like wanting little differences, wanting to increase confidence, wanting equal opportunities, not something you just want to say. You have to do it – give the money and give priority. What's not being talked about here is the decision that's taken and that applies every year, that we give billions of dollars in unsocial tax cuts – money that could have been used differently. The logic of this government is that if there are to be some measures for poor families in kindergarten, it is the other parents in kindergarten who have to pay for it. If you want to do something for the police stations, there are other parts of the police that need to be curtailed. The Prime Minister said that there was a case solved in Finnmark, and that it was good after the reform. But Finnmark is still the same district, actually. It is partly because the Workers' Party got into the reform that there should not be a merger between Troms and Finnmark. Other parts experience a day-to-day experience. In Telemark, there are 34 fewer annual works, weakened crews, weakened centers. It has consequences. I want to say finally that the Prime Minister is quite clear in the teaching of those who are skeptical of what is now happening to the courts. We believe that this has to be done with the courts – especially after six years of impaired appropriations, with efficiency cuts, which make you get cows now, and that perpetrators go free because they have waited too long. We have to do something with the courts. But the grip in the report we have clearly said no to, and we get criticism to conclude before we read it. As far as I have heard, some of the government parties have been very clear about saying the same thing. Does that mean that the Prime Minister is equally categorical to his government partner Christian People's Party, who says they won't go in for it? Well, she'll answer for that. I still believe that this debate shows clear political, ideological divides as to where we are going with this society, what is needed to trigger the capacity of us as people to achieve the goals that, among other things, are. The Prime Minister is talking about, and I think we can agree on the overall level – developing opportunities across the country, being able to transform, clear the climate. But the course we're at, the differences that are increasing, and the unsociality of the reforms, makes the will to do the big grips go down. That has been confirmed in this debate, and I think it is going to be a very clear dividing line in the political debate towards 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1782	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1796	The cancellation is then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1808	A total of 43 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 2-18, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 19–28, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 29-32, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 33-36, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 37 and 38, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 39, from Björnar Moxnes on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 40 to 42, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 43, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 6, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party, was converted into a transmission proposal during the debate and now reads: ‘The Government is advised not to proceed with the E18 project through Asker and Bærum as planned by the Government and that the Government is working to change the project in cooperation with the parties to Oslopackakt 3. The size suggests that road capacity should not be increased and that the tolls of the project should be reduced.» The President will propose that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 36, from Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party, has changed during the debate and is now saying: ‘The Government requests the Government to explain as soon as possible and in an appropriate manner how to ensure that children with Norwegian parents who are in Syria come home as soon as possible, as well as the situation of Norwegians who have joined or worked with IS, the status of legal settlement in the region and the basis for their arrest and prosecution if they come to Norwegian territory. Proposal No. 43, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, has also changed during the debate and is now saying: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Storting with transparency of the content of the FTA the Government has concluded negotiations with Mercosur.’ There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to bring the Norwegian four-year-old in al-Hol to Norway as soon as possible because of humanitarian concerns about life and death for a seriously ill child. It also involves bringing the sister to Norway in three years of age and the Norwegian mother of the child in 29 years of age, who is being investigated by the Police Security Service for participation in the IS terrorist organisation.» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1873	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a halt in the development of concessionary wind turbines pending the political treatment of the national framework for wind power.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1890	There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the necessary short and long term measures to ensure that the availability of all its public ambulance airbases is immediately brought up to 98,4 pst. such a contract is contingent upon. If the operator is unable to deliver in line with the contract concluded, the contract between the HF Air ambulance service and Babcock Scandinavian Air Ambulance shall be cancelled.’; The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1907	There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for sectoral action plans to be drawn up by 2030 to ensure that emission cuts are made in a socially equitable manner, for example through progressive environmental taxes based on economy, environmental pressures and districts.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1925	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 30 and 31, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the initiative to ask EFTA to resume negotiations on the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement and not to conclude a final agreement until adequate protection of the rainforest is ensured.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘By 1 January 2020, the government is asking for a public sample – a Green New Deal Commission – to investigate how Norwegian society can be converted fairly from a fossil economy to a zero-emission society. The selection shall review the societal structures that prevent the necessary greening and climate change. The Committee shall propose concrete measures to achieve Norway’s climate objectives, to develop and maintain jobs and industry, and to implement the green shift with low social inequality.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1949	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit without delay the proposals necessary to reverse the cuts and deteriorations in the redundancy pay system.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1966	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that detailed analyses of the impact on nature have been carried out in all concessional wind turbines before MTA/detailed plans are treated. These studies must consider any changes to the plans compared to the plans as they were at the time of the concession.’» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e1983	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29, 37 and 43, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The size of the government is requested to maintain a non-life-age-adjustment shield.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the Government’s proposal for a national framework for wind power, for consideration in the Grand Duchy, so that stakeholders and interest groups can make their views known and be properly and thoroughly heard.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Storting with transparency of the content of the FTA the Government has concluded negotiations with Mercosur.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2012	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that standing, time-limited molting permits are granted immediately on wolves that have done damage east of E6 in Trøndelag and wolves that have done damage in Gågebostad, Lwagal, Kvinesdal and Åseral in West Agder.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to maintain today’s management regions for wild game.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2034	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that any cost savings in road projects financed by tolls benefit drivers through reduced tolls.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2052	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Ten and twelve from the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a statement on Norway’s relationship with the EU in the field of energy.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a public investigation into alternatives to the EEA based on WTO legislation, our free trade agreement and the trade agreement existing between Canada and the EU.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2076	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen’.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2093	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a report on charging policy.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2110	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case in Stortinget on the concrete model of compensation for fur farmers before final fixing compensation.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2127	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 4, 5, 8, 11 and 16–18, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the reversal of the aggregation of the counties if the counties so request.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for climate finance for energy conversion in emerging economies. The aim must be to make Norway a central contributor to the phase-out of new coal-fired power plants in emerging economies.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to initiate a renegotiation of the 1944 Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation so that international aviation can take its share of the climate commitments.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to increase the long-term carbon uptake in Norwegian forest areas.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a public investigation into how the scope of action in terms of the design and implementation of legislation in the EEA Agreement can be exploited to safeguard Norwegian energy, transport and employment interests.’; Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the rule that each municipality has its own settlement board is complied with in practice.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that none of today’s food departments or other food services are laid down.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government shall submit to the Government, as soon as possible and by 1 January 2020, an evaluation of the tendering process of the Grand Duchy’s air ambulance service as its own case, as set out below. Decision No 865 [[2017-2018]] The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2183	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–23, 25, 27, 28, 33 and 35, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to conduct a draft selection inquiry for different alternatives of the North Norway Railway. [[KVU]] The KVU must be implemented in a timely manner so that the North Norwegian Railway can be assessed at the next roll-over of the national transport plan in 2021.’» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the secure stability and foreseeable preparedness of the air ambulance service as soon as possible, including proper operation and maintenance at each base.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that health-care establishments do not centralise or decommission ambulance services without adequate alternative preparedness.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to stabilise the fixed medical system by reducing the average list length and controlling the task transfer’.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking to present its own case on tourist fishing with an overview of the situation and measures to ensure a serious and controllable tourist fishing, through increased control and supervision to combat resource and environmental crime.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the structure and content of the courts are fully and coherently addressed, so that structure is not treated independently of content, functions and tasks.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: «The government is asked to propose legislative changes to the private sector pension schemes that ensure that service provision starts from the first crown of salary, that pension scheme membership is also granted for lower employment rates than 20 per cent and that there is membership of a pension scheme for employees under 20 years of age.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that county municipalities can decide for themselves whether to introduce character-based admissions to secondary school.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is actively asked to facilitate the transport of children who have Norwegian parents and are in Syria’s home to Norway and to provide appropriate health care immediately.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘By 11 October 2019, the Government asks the Norwegian Government to explain to the House how to ensure that children who have Norwegian parents and are located in Syria come home as soon as possible, as well as the situation of Norwegians who have joined or worked with IS, the status of the settlement of justice in the region and the basis for their arrest and prosecution if they come to Norwegian territory.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2248	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the agreement on the reform of the local police (Inst. 306 S [[2014-2015]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2265	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to record the development of rentals from manpower enterprises and to produce statistics by industry and by state, including the proportion of short-term stays from EU Member States, and to submit proposals for measures to prevent the spread of developments in, inter alia, the construction sector to other sectors.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2282	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to take initiatives towards the family in Norway for children who have Norwegian parents and are in Syria to contribute to the safe transport of their children to Norway.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2301	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that higher education institutions pay attention to their regional responsibilities and decentralised education throughout the country.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2316	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Workers' Party. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to explain as soon as possible and in an appropriate manner how to ensure that children with Norwegian parents who are in Syria come home as soon as possible, as well as the situation of Norwegians who have joined or worked with IS, the status of legal settlement in the region and the basis for their arrest and prosecution if they come to Norwegian territory.’ The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2334	The President will propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 164th Great by its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-04.ana.ud156e2381	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
