ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e29	The representative Liv Signe Navarsette, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The President requests that the representatives be sitting until the minutes have been discussed, and the President states that case no. 2 will be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e78	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the debate on singing in school is filling the entire agenda for the Stortinget today! To me there is no doubt: singing is important. In Norway we sing at baptism, wedding and tomb. We sang in this room when the Stortinget was opened. We sing to the youth that we love this country, and when we go for a walk on the path. Singing is balm for the heart and nourishment of the soul. Even when I'm sad, when I'm happy, or when I want to enjoy others, I sing. And I'm glad the Stortinget didn't want me to sing today! Singing is so much: singing is important for community, cultural heritage and identity and is a source of learning. And the song is too important for it to be chosen away at school. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with that claim. But nevertheless, the right-wing government has managed to raise a whole bunch of malicious music educators, teachers and parents to a massive jam of singing in school – and for the second time in a very short time. The first time was last year, when singing was out of the ‘general part of the curriculum’. Then the mercenaries were calmed by a singing deputy minister, Asheim, who guaranteed that there was no danger to the song in school. Round two was started in the spring, when the government proposed to remove songs from the Norwegian language. This time it's different, and I don't think a song from the council helps. A total of 34 organisations and thousands of people have promulgated "Powers for song". 1,212 have signed the signature campaign "Yes to singing at school". The "Sing out" slogan gathered large parts of Music Norway for demonstration outside the Stortinget, with Maj Britt Andersen singing and more in the committee as corists. It's these massive protests I now with this interpellation taking into the Storting Hall and challenging the Council of State. Others have asked themselves, Why are these protests coming now? The government has tried to dismiss the protests by calling it ignorance of the new curricula and overreacting. I believe that is the wrong analysis. This I think was the nail in the coffin, the drop that was asked to run over. Or as Solvency Sandelson in Stavanger Aftenblad wrote: ‘There are teachers in aesthetic subjects who go around with grief in them. Because the subjects don't have room, don't get self-esteem, don't get enough resources, don't have proper competence. It's poor. It makes us poorer." And the speech of the numbers is clear: Only 40 pst. of those who teach music in primary school, have formal education in the subject. At the teacher's training chooses 95 pst. by the students away the aesthetic subjects. Training in music and arts and crafts represents only 5 out of 194 of the year's continuing training courses for teachers. At the same time, studies show that applications from teachers for further training in aesthetic subjects are being down-prioritized and therefore conceal a need. That's why the protests come – because someone's tired of singing, music and practical subjects being deprioritised. For a teacher who has never been taught to sing himself or to sing with a class, there will be no choice of singing as a method either. That's why I now ask the Council of State to take action and reverse developments. The working party believes singing is simple, cheap and inclusive and an important part of our common identity. There must be no doubt that singing will also have a central place in school in the future, and it is unfortunate that there is uncertainty about this. I don't think it's appropriate to let the song get out of the classroom. Singing in school is important, it's part of our common cultural heritage, and we can't let there be any doubt that Norwegian schoolchildren will sing with the voices they have, even in the future. The intention behind the changes in the curriculum is good, and we in the Workers' Party have been clear champions to give teachers more confidence and reduce the detail management of the school. But at the same time, we can't trust teachers, because we end up in the other ditch, where we empty the school for important common references like singing. I believe it is a political task to clear up doubts and confirm that the song will also have a central place in school in the future – a political task I hope the Council of State will take. At the same time, I also share the concern about the direction the Norwegian school takes: The school has become too theoretical, still and academic, especially for the smallest children. And the right-hand government has done little to promote more practical and varied learning for the students. The school shall see and give mastery to all students. Then you also have to help children learn differently. Students must also be able to acquire knowledge through practical tasks, activities and singing participation, not just theoretical. Because there's no difference between play and learning. There's an enormous amount of learning through games, songs, dance and other activities. Like, for example, The research from Bradford elementary school in the United Kingdom showed: through a focused effort on song, drama and art in all disciplines, there has been a shift from national bottom position to a top position on reading, writing and billing results. So over six hours of music a week, the students have improved in math. The question I think is important is what the Minister of Knowledge has done to ensure the place of the song in school. It is this targeted and comprehensive effort that I believe is missing. And the toolbox is not empty - state councils just won't use the tools. In addition to the political responsibility, as mentioned, in securing the place of the song in school, there are some obvious challenges to the government, which I hope the Minister of Knowledge today will answer: Challenge 1: Perform a level of competence within singing for today's and tomorrow's teachers. That's not good enough when 95 pst. of the students at the teacher training elects the aesthetic subjects, and only 5 out of 194 continuing training courses for teachers are in music and art and crafts. Challenge 2: Introduce skills requirements for music teachers. That only 40 pst. by the music teachers in primary school have been educated in the subject, is not good enough either. We should look at how we can introduce skills requirements in several disciplines. Challenge 3: Give the song the rightful place in the curriculum. As I said, I also believe that freedom of method is important, and we don't want any coercion. But song is more than one method. Singing is a basic way of expressing itself, and we know that good singing experiences in young years provide the basis for singing joys for the rest of your life. Should not the song therefore have its rightful place in the curriculum? Challenge 4: Give teachers good tools. Much of the song that happens in school today is based on random YouTube clips. We believe that the school needs to ensure access to repertoire through both better learning materials and how to use it. This makes teachers better able to bring the song back to school every day. I hope that the Council of State will take this very opportunity to respond to the overall challenge, but also these four challenges from the propaganda and the protests that have come from professionals, teachers and parents – and that the end of this vision will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e177	Let me start by congratulating the representative Tvedt Solberg as a new educational spokesperson in the Workers' Party! I look forward to good cooperation on good school development. I agree with the representative Tvedt Solberg that the song is an important cultural expression and an important part of our cultural heritage. Singing and music gather us in everyday life, on great occasions, and in both sorrow and joy. Norway has a rich song tradition, and students will learn about, experience and participate in this tradition in school. As we know, we are now working on renewing the content of the school. The main objective of the innovation is to better facilitate the learning and development of students. Surveys and feedback have shown that today’s curricula are too extensive. It is difficult for teachers to give priority to the most important substance in the subject, and students also do not have enough time for professional understanding and depression. The curricula should therefore be less extensive and give a clearer direction to the work of the subjects at school. Facilitating in-depth learning, reducing the scale of the subjects and making a division of labour between the subjects has been important in the renewal of the profession. The new curriculum should not be long curriculum vitae where everything we think is important is to be framed. Nor shall they control the learning activities or methods to be used by teachers in teaching. It is the teachers who are responsible for the content and methods they use in teaching, and we must have confidence that teachers make such choices with professional wisdom. All curricula must therefore provide a good methodological room for action. It is a great strength that so many have engaged in the discussion of the school of the future. In the context of the consultation itself of proposals for the new curricula, there have been several debates on the content of the plans. One of these debates has been about singing in school. I would like to stress that I believe that singing is an important part of Norwegian schoolwork, and that singing has a quite natural place in school, even after the trade renewal. The representative Tvedt Solberg points out that singing has been removed in the overall part of the curriculum. It is true that the word ‘song’ is not mentioned. That doesn't mean that song has been removed from school content. In this part of the curriculum, we also do not find words like ‘mathematics’, ‘literature’ or ‘swimming’. This is because the overall part is general — it deepens the value base of the purpose paragraph and the general principles applicable to initial training. The song has a clear place in the field of music, and the Education Directorate’s proposal for a new curriculum in music says that students, among other things. shall be able to sing songs, songs and dances derived from their close musical culture, from their cultural heritage and from different musical cultures. Students must also practice and present songs and music to others. We have recently received the final draft curriculum from the Education Directorate after the extensive consultation that has taken place. These shall be determined by the Ministry of Knowledge during the autumn. I have registered that in the Education Directorate's proposal for a new curriculum in the Norwegian subject are songs and lyrics written into some new competence goals. For example, they now propose that after stage 2 students be able to express text experiences through play, song, drawing, writing and other creative activities. My assessment is that it looks like the Education Directorate has done this in a good way. But I'm going to evaluate the whole and the context of all the curriculums. Here, songs are clearly written both in the music field and now also in the Norwegian field, as well as that singing is also a method that teachers can wisely use in many subjects. In the autumn, the government also presented the strategy of Creator, engagement and exploration. Practical and aesthetic content of kindergarten, school and teacher training. Our ambition is to increase the competence and status of the practical and aesthetic subjects. We see that it is a challenge that about half of the teachers who teach the practical and aesthetic subjects lack formal competence. The government will therefore continue to strengthen the competence of teachers through the focus on continuing education and the decentralised system of skills development. In conclusion, I would like to say that both Norwegian and music are important subjects for cultural understanding, creation and identity development, and they should join with other subjects in giving students historical and cultural insight and anchoring. The curricula in other subjects also allow teachers to use singing when they think it is relevant. We know that today schools use song and music in teaching different subjects and in working to create a safe and good school environment. And I hope to see even more songs in school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e200	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. In advance, I was excited about what it was going to be: was it going to be "when the clock sounded, as soon as we ran", that is, that the council ran away from its responsibility, or would it be a little more "the more we are together" and "kum ba yah, my Lord"? It might have been a kind of a combination. I hoped at least that this interpellation could be an opportunity, which I think the Council of State used in part. I think it is good and positive signals that one will now make changes in the Norwegian subject, but I will still challenge the Council of State on what he will do to clarify to School-Norway that it will be sung in school. Because uncertainty has been created, and that is what is behind these massive protests: that one will do something more concrete in addition. I believe, of course, that it should be possible to get to both. In my first post, I was also a little bit inside the toolbox, and as the Council of State said, a strategy has been put forward for the practical-esthetic subjects, which came into place after the decision of the Stortinget. It's been criticised by the professionals for being a little bit halfhearted, and it's precisely with reference to the fact that one doesn't want to use the toolbox that's lying there to a greater extent. The strategy has many good formulations, many good ambitions, but one can't clearly commit to changing, and doing anything about, the developments that have been. We also confirmed this when the state budget arrived yesterday; there were no new signals that could have done anything about this development. So I want to challenge the Council of States a little bit on this strategy that is now in place: will it make it possible for us now to expect that there will be another priority on, for example. Continued training – to increase awareness of teacher training, so that more people take these and we get to reverse it? Because from Stortinget's side, I don't think there can be any doubt that it's still going to be sung in school, and then we also have to dry to use the toolbox that's there, to reverse the evolution that you've seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e211	I don't think there's any doubt that there's a cross-political desire for it to be sung in school. What this discussion is about is how detailed one should be in the curricula, but also – and that is some of the discussion that the representative Tvedt Solberg draws up – how we should facilitate skills enhancement and various support resources for teachers. As far as trade renewal is concerned, an important feature we do there is that more subjects are going to be more practical and experiential. It is a great recognition of the important role of the practical-esthetic subjects — and also the practical-esthetic as a method in several disciplines. I have great faith that more subjects by becoming more practical and explorers will be able to appeal to more students, and that we can get more depth learning, as we want through the innovation. Let me also show that in the context of the new curricula, the Education Directorate is developing an online competence package to support school leaders and teachers. There will also be professional support resources in the practical-esthetic disciplines, so that, in parallel with the curricula, more support resources are developed for teachers. We will continue to prioritise further training in the practical subjects through earmarked means, as we have done in recent years. It also facilitates continuing training through decentralised schemes, enabling each school and municipality to discuss where the need for skills enhancement is concerned. On the question of introducing more requirements for professional competence, our position is that we must first achieve the goal we have set in reading, writing and billing – in Norwegian, English and math. We have to meet the skills requirements through the historical effort we have in continuing education before expanding it to even more subjects. I believe that all students should meet a qualified teacher who has depression in his profession. But there has been a problem and a challenge in school that you have so many priorities that you don't get to prioritize the most important thing first. That is why we have said that in English, Norwegian and math we must implement the competence requirements. Then I'm fully open to discussing how the way is going on so that all students can meet qualified teachers with depression in the subjects they teach.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e224	Not independently, but in the extension of the discussion of song included in the curriculum, at least a reasonable debate has been held, and a debate about giving song and music the place it deserves. That's why it's nice that both the interpellant and the state council today confirm that they seem to have a quite natural place in school, and in the Norwegian language in particular – and almost regardless of whether you mention singing in your curriculum or not. In this way, we have at least raised the theme of singing at school. That's what the Center Party thinks is important. Because I think some of the strong reactions that this case has led to are a little bit about the fact that someone over a long time has experienced, has experienced, that the knowledge that song and culture represent in school, gets a little lost, gets a little down-priority in school. There are many people who have responded, and I think that is an important signal to take with them. The center party is occupied with singing and thinks it's important. This is important because cultural heritage is passed on and traditions are built. It is closely linked to literature literacy in schools, and it is a good method of disseminating subject matter. I think it can also build community and contribute to a good learning environment, and I think singing can be an effective tool for motivation in a number of subjects. There's reason to be a little concerned about a development where the school is becoming increasingly theorized. Although a desire for teachers to have a greater degree of nuclear science, the development of more and more teachers of nuclear science may also lead to a slight lack of education in what aesthetic learning processes may have to say for motivation and learning in individual students. The students, and indirectly hence the teachers, are also largely measured on the theoretical rather than on practical aesthetics. It may have meaning for the place of the song in school. The interpellant indicated that 95 pst. of the students now opting out of the aesthetic subjects. It's a little alarming. So one might say that these students get knowledge of aesthetic methods through the subject of pedagogics and learning skills, but it's also just maybe, because the educational institutions where they study must have chosen to focus on aesthetic methods, because that's freedom of method also in the field of teacher training. I believe that a teacher who has never been taught to sing himself or to sing with a class, hardly of himself will choose song as a method in the Norwegian language. I think you have to lift it in a much more systematic way if you're going to get it out in the years to come. The centre party believes that there is a need to raise the practical-esthetic subjects in general at school. We also believe that all teacher students should have a practical-esthetic subject as part of primary school teacher training. Then I think it's a promising signal when the Council of State now says that more attention should be paid to the practical and experiential aspects of the various subjects. I think that's an important way to go. I think, as I said, it's good that the interpellant raises this issue, and that regardless of whether any of us believe that it should be in the curriculum or not, we can agree that the place of the song in school is important, both as a subject and as a methodology.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e241	Like the representative Arnstad, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. The fact that so many people have expressed concern about the place of the song in school shows that it's actually important that we take it up. I also think, like Marit Arnstad, that although we might disagree on just how it should be formulated in the curriculum, this debate shows that there is a very broad consensus that both song and the practical-esthetic subjects in general should have an important place in school. Now I may not be as concerned about the place of the song in school as others have expressed here, and it is based both on my experiences as a teacher and teacher and on my visits to schools. It's pretty striking that in a lot of schools I visit, I actually get met with song. A lot of schools have their own school song, which the students are proud to perform, and from these performances it's very obvious that it's not the first time they've sung that song, and that singing is something that has a lot of space in many schools. Even I was so lucky that I also got to go to a school where singing and music had a very central place. So, of course, there might be some teachers and maybe some schools that don't give it the same priority, but as I said, I'm not as worried as the other one has expressed. The song has had a very central place in Norwegian school since the beginning. When the left introduced the primary school in 1889, there were a lot of people who were skeptical, because not only were you to take the kids out of their homes and from income-bearing work to teach them to read and write, they were actually supposed to learn music – and more specifically song. There were very many who thought was wasted time for useful labour. But for the Left, the school has always been something more than a doggy project. For over 130 years, it has been about education, giving each child the opportunity to live a better life than their parents, about giving opportunities and also empowering people to make free choices on behalf of their own future so that they can live a good life – but also about giving kids good experiences here and now. Education is about knowledge about math and Norwegian and basic skills, about critical thinking and reflection, about democracy, freedom of expression and forms of expression, but it is also about knowing their culture and having respect for others and their culture. That means that the Left fences about the practical-esthetic subjects in the school and the practical-esthetic methods in all subjects. Already in the law on the country’s primary school since 1889, Section 6 says that the teaching subjects are to be Christian knowledge, Norwegian, billing, writing and singing. Today, the curriculum is less explicit. It's not a subject of our own, we have a much broader subject today, which is called music. But we know that the song is across the agenda and belongs to many subjects, and so it should continue to be. For a main objective of trade renewal, which was also the subject of the Council of State, the aim was to reduce the number of objectives of competence and to give teachers more freedom of method. It is a goal that the Left supports wholeheartedly, and we have so much confidence in both teachers and principals that we believe that good methods of singing are still being used in Norwegian school. The left has stood in the chest to raise the status of teachers, among others. by introducing a five-year master's degree, competence requirements and more career paths. Teachers are one of the most competent professional groups we have. It must mean that they will be allowed to shape the teaching themselves, and that they will have more freedom and not less freedom in choosing their methods. The most important thing for our kids to learn and thrive at school is a good teacher. Now we're about to create a system that educates the world's best teachers, and I'm absolutely sure they're also going to use song in teaching in the future. I am pleased that the curricula in the Norwegian denominator sang explicitly, and I am absolutely sure that it is an art form and method that teachers will also use in other subjects. The most important thing we can do to ensure this is actually to ensure that teachers become familiar with how they can use songs in teaching, and that we also contribute to raising their skills to those who are already teachers in Norwegian school. So I believe that the debate on how the school can focus more on the practical-esthetic dimensions is probably so much about both teacher training and competence enhancement as it is about exactly what is in the curriculum, and I hope that this debate can continue even after today's debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e256	I also want to start by thanking the representative Tvedt Solberg for focusing on the importance of singing at school and what is important in order to achieve this in the best possible way. The curricula will be set by the Ministry of Knowledge this autumn and will be put into service in school as from the autumn of 2020. The Minister of Knowledge has made it clear that singing, of course, has a quite natural place in school – also with new curricula. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased because singing, both in its form, by being a tradition and an important part of our cultural heritage, and also by its unique form preserves all the abilities of the child in the educational situation. In addition, singing is important in creating good social relationships in a community. Like the learning venue, the song is also unique. It allows everyone to participate, while at the same time strengthening the class community. Children acquire learning in very different ways. Some children have to write it themselves in order to get a good grip on the drug. Some kids have to visualize things. And some children learn best the auditory way. Singing is therefore more than a cultural heritage that can be placed in the subjects of Norwegian and music. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned that singing is still an important part of the school, and we will therefore encourage the Council of State to bring forward the many assessments and mappings made of singing, both as a cultural heritage and as a learning venue in the school, and we encourage to ensure that singing is still mentioned as an important part of the school in the new curriculum. Based on the response given by the Council of State today, I have once again received good reasons to believe that singing should still be ensured a central place in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e267	I want to boast of the interpellant, which brings up an important theme. I may not be the one who sings so much himself, or who sings something very nice, but I think singing is very important, and as both father and grandfather I enjoy following both children and grandchildren through school and kindergarten. It's clear that singing is an important cultural heritage, but in many ways it's also an important learning venue. I've been following Color Games for a while. Youths from many parts of the world attend a cultural school and participate in Color Games, where they learn language through song. They learn forms of expression, and they learn to dance. One is included, and one is integrated, so it says something about how important the song is – not only in the cultural arena, but also like the learning arena and the motivational arena for children and young people. That's why singing is important language training that we have to take seriously. Then it's important that we have teachers who are motivated and who have competence and knowledge related to singing as the learning arena. In Denmark they have a singing Danish project. It is important that cultural arenas such as radio and television etc. is used as an arena where young people participate and learn important songs related to Norwegian cultural heritage. I think today in kindergartens you're better at singing than in high school and high school. I myself have a son who is a kindergarten teacher. I haven't heard him sing so much before, but after he became a kindergarten teacher, he sings very much – probably to his own pleasure and not least to the kids. But what worries me is to see that in the cultural school in Norway today the lowest number of student places in 16 years is registered. It also says something about developments in that area. If we don't have songs, music, aesthetics in kindergarten and school, the way municipalities think about and organize cultural schools and cultural schools in the future is also different. That is why it is so important that we focus on this. This year, too, there is a decline. That's the biggest decline we've had in 16 years in this area. Governments should be concerned about this when we see that singing is not used as much in school as you might have done before. The school is an important arena for inclusion and language training where this can be used in many areas. When it comes to singing with the voice you have, I'm the father of four people. We always had a little song around the evening table, while we were sitting and eating dinner. Then one of my daughters said, "Dad, now we're going to sing." Then she pointed to everyone – you can sing, you can sing – but said, Dad, you don't have to sing. So I don't think it sounded so good, but I was with – with commitment and spark – even though I wasn't very good at singing. Language training is important in school. Singing is an important instrument linked to it, and not least continues an important cultural heritage in school and cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e282	Yeah, it sounds like we can be happy that this was a political debate, and not a song competition for those who have participated. I would like to thank you for the debate. I was curious whether this was going to be a pure duet or quartet, but it became a finely mixed choir that joined this important discussion. I am glad that all the parties agree so much that you want songs at school. It was also one of the things that was important to me when I raised this discussion – to meet the enormous commitment that is, but also to say that we want more singing in school. Not least, I believe that the school has become too theoretical and silent, and that singing and the practical subjects should be given a greater place. So there was a discussion about there's reason to be concerned. It could be an interesting discussion. For example, Kraftak for singing has done systematic research that shows that there is less singing in the school now. I think, for example, There's less singing in school now than when the representative Melby and I went to school. Then the question is, what are we going to do with that? What action are we going to take to ensure singing at school? In the choice between sending the representative Melby on many school visits to make sure that there is singing or putting in place important skills-enhancing measures, I have to admit that I choose the last one. Some of what I think gives cause for concern are the figures, which I also referred to earlier in the debate. When only 40 pst. Of those who teach music in high school, who have formal education in the field, we cannot expect them to use the song as a method and tool in a good way. That is where I think the discussion should be, that we continue the discussion on how the strategy presented, which has many good ambitions, should be followed up and ensure that there is money spent on continuing training for teachers, that teacher training follows up the signals given by the government in its strategy, and not least that the Storting is careful that good learning tools are developed. So I am happy to continue the discussion about the need to demand immersion in the subjects you teach, to which the Council of State has so far invited, in the continuation. From the side of the Storting and the Labour Party, we will continue to be impatient and continue to challenge the Council of State, and not least demand that concrete action be taken and follow up the fine words that are said both in this Chamber and in the strategy put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e295	Finally, let me thank you for a good debate. I think we can establish that there is no political disagreement about the place of the song in school. That's an important clarification. I fully agree with Mr Tvedt Solberg that we are still going to discuss skills raising measures, what tools the school should have, and how best to raise the practical-esthetic subjects. I have been clear that we have set some competence requirements in Norwegian, English and math, and that we are very concerned that we have to meet them first. But it is important that we over time ensure that all students meet qualified teachers, and that teachers are met who have depression and education in the subjects in which they teach. The representative of Asphjell also invited me to a broader discussion that I believe is important, because this is not just about competence goals and school: it's also about the cultural school and the school leisure system. We – The Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture – are now working on a youth culture announcement. That's where the cultural school is going to have a central place. We are committed to raising culture for children and young people also in a broader perspective than just what is done in school. I fully agree that culture and song are important for language development, and that is also important from an integration perspective. Because through cultural expressions you can show your own culture and be proud of it, and different cultures and identities can meet in a different way from what you do through normal association. So culture also plays an important role in an integration perspective, and through the work we are now doing on early action, we also look at the school leisure system and how we can develop and raise quality there, and singing will also have a natural place in the school leisure system. So after some a little bit of anxiety, I think maybe we can end up saying that there's reason to be optimistic about the place of the song, both in school and through the work we're doing now in raising the cultural field for children and youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-08.ana.ud302e309	Then the end of this way is that the debate on substance. 1 is over. Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
