ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e28	From the representatives Jette F. Christensen and Mudasar Kapur there are leading applications for leave from 15 January to 5 April – both to take a master's course at the Defence College. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: Applications will be processed immediately and accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period as follows: For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande 15 January–3. April For Oslo: Camilla Beach Forest 15 January–3. April
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e61	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e66	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative from the Troika representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Sandra Borch, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself to ask the government to secure helicopter preparedness in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e71	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e87	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Frank Bakke-Jensen, Åse Michaelsen and Nikolai Astrup will meet for oral Question Time. These government members are there, and we're ready to start the oral Question Time. We then start with the first main question, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e96	In the last few days, we've seen it again in Inner Troms: the army needs helicopters in the north. A country such as Norway is totally dependent on the Bell helicopters on Bardufoss during accidents and search operations. The greater distances, the worse roads, the more weather, the more helicopters are needed when the accident is out. It is essential for people’s security to have access to helicopters in crisis situations. I cannot understand why the Minister of Defense is insisting on weakening both the defence and the civil protection in North Norway, directly in violation of the government's own promises and the decision of the Stortinge. In 2016, the government decided that no Bell helicopters should be moved from Bardufoss until ‘sufficient helicopter capacity is established in North Norway, by phase-in of NH90 and AW101’, i.e. new coastguard and rescue helicopters. The majority of the size followed up and concluded that the current distribution of nine helicopters on Bardufoss and nine helicopters on the Back continues until alternative helicopter capacity is established on Bardufoss, and added that the time of movement of the Bell helicopters can only be determined finally when alternative helicopter capacity is in place. My question is simply: Is alternative capacity in place at Bardufoss in the form of new coastguard and rescue helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e105	Civil protection is an area of responsibility under the Ministry of Justice. When we have said that we will give priority to counter-terrorism preparedness for the special forces in the south, it is also a matter of preparedness, total preparedness. Then it's like the Bell helicopters are a limited capacity, and then it has to be a priority. The third point is that we've said that once we've landed on 15 machines to the special forces and 3 Bell machines in the north, we have to compensate for it in other ways. Firstly, the NH90 and the new rescue helicopters are on their way in. Secondly, we have said that we are waiting for the move to the police to find alternative capacity for the preparedness Bell provides for the police in the north. Thirdly, we have concluded an agreement to be able to lease in civilian capacities that can take care of part of the transport needs that Bell has met in the north. First of all, we mean that we don't do this as an off/off switch, we take it successively. Secondly, we also cover alternative capacities in the north gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e114	What the Minister of Defense is now saying is in conflict with the decision of the Stortinget. What is quite clear there is that nothing should be moved until the alternative capacity is in place. Now you have to move many helicopters already to the fall, and then he says that new helicopters are on their way in. Well, they've been delayed quite a long time. And then we hear that the Minister of Defense says he's waiting for a move. Does this mean that the Minister of Defense also realize that helicopter capacity is not sufficient and that he has to postpone his own plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e119	With regard to the decision of the Storting, I suggest that we all deal with the last decision, and that is the state budget we adopted just before Christmas. There we adopted the change I have now outlined. The majority of Stortinget has entered into the process of dedicating 15 machines to the special forces in order to establish a counter-terror alert down here. Three Bell machines shall remain on Bardufoss. We're going to use the alternative capacity we're purchasing from civil capabilities. We also get more and more flight hours with the NH90, and we get the new rescue helicopters in time. We're dealing with Storting's decision – let's not doubt it now. Then it also says in the proposition – and we have said in this room also earlier – that we need to find alternative capacity for the emergency mission Bell has had for the police before moving something down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e126	It is opened for follow-up questions - first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e131	When I listen to the Minister of Defence now, I hear he ignores the decisions of the Stortinge in this matter in connection with the long-term plan. He relates to what the Stortinge did in the state budget last harvest. That means he's putting the long-term plan aside and ignoring that he's not going to move helicopters until the alternative capacity is here. Then I just want to ask: it is that the Christian People's Party does not fully agree with the description that the Minister of Defence comes with. The representative Knut Arild Hareide says: ‘We do not agree with the solutions chosen in the case of the helicopter solution for the Army.’ [[...]] [[...]] Does the Minister for Defence hope for a better solution in the area of helicopter capacity in the north, in the negotiations that are now taking place at the Granavollen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e143	We're dealing with the long-term plan, we're dealing with the land force proposition, and then we're dealing with the decisions we made in the state budget before Christmas. The last decisions in this matter we made in the state budget before Christmas, by a majority of the Christian People's Party. Then I register that Knut Arild Hareide has been out in the media afterwards and said that he has a different view. First of all, it's not a vision he's promoted for me before. It is also not a vision that is in line with the majority decision of the Christian People's Party before Christmas. The negotiations that are taking place in Hadeland are another matter. I suggest that we leave it to those who negotiate up there. My wishes in that sense I have no plans to polish about here in the hall. I am dealing with the major decisions that apply. The last decision on land power, helicopters, etc. is what was made in the state budget before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e152	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e157	Last spring, we saw the importance of Bell helicopters in the part of the country from which both the Minister of Defence and I come. When the ambulance helicopters stopped, the Bell helicopters had to be inserted. But the helicopters are also important to the Army, and they are important to the police. They are vital to the preparedness that we need in the north. We don't see that at least when it's winter in that part of the country that we're from. Bell helicopters are vital in the north – in ways you may not have anywhere else in the country. So my question to the Minister of Defence is: Does he think that there will be enough of three helicopters — both to carry out the mission to the Army and to contribute significantly to what civil protection needs to use the helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e165	No, the minister doesn't mean that. That's why I've said innumerable times that we're going to put in other capacities to cover civil protection. There's been a lot of work in the north. First of all, it was not helicopters that stood in ours, it was planes that did not fly. Then we put in Bell helicopters as an alternative. It's also the case that there are new helicopter offers. It has increased the capacity of ambulance helicopters in the north – a better service for residents in the north. We've said we should have alternative capacities. We're hiring civilian capacities that can cover this kind of mission. We're going to cover the preparedness that's going to be in the north. The preparedness in the north has improved and improved during this government – and it is going to be even better when we are phased in the last capacities, which we are currently doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e174	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e179	We're getting used to this minister being pretty good at beating his chest and telling him how good everything is, how good the preparedness is, and not taking on the challenges that are actually there. I also hear a lot of words. It's said that things have gotten better, better than under the previous government, and that it only gets better when all the alternative capacities come into place. My question is, how do you deal with this? And will there be a strengthened readiness at the moment you move the Bell helicopters you intend to move?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e184	We've been open to the civil protection mission, the mission Bell's mission in civil protection, being covered up with other capacities. It will not weaken its preparedness. Helicopter capacity in the north is increasing significantly, all the time. When we're phased in new rescue helicopters, there's machines with a completely different capacity, and it's improving preparedness. When we gradually get more flight hours with the NH90, which we are increasing every year now, it will also have a capacity available that can help increase preparedness in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e191	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e196	I would be a little careful to push the NH90 and that capacity in front of me right now. But I have to ask that, because you use the needs of the special forces as the most important argument to make this drastic move. For the Labour Party, we added extra funds into our alternative budget, so that we could strengthen the staffing of the Back and maintain a 9-9 distribution. But what's most important for the special forces is an increase in the number of hulls, or is there an increase in the crew to exploit those that are already there?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e201	According to the professional soldiers, to build up the counter-terrorism capacity that the special forces are supposed to exercise, depending on 15 machines, 15 hulls. The capacity is then available. So it's not the number of hulls that are the limiting. We could have purchased new Bell helicopters without any problem. What's limiting is the number of pilots and mechanics that we have. Air defence is now facing major challenges. We're phased into a lot of new capacities. This means that personnel are a limited resource. That's what makes us not getting the math to go up, so we can be present with Bell in both the north and the south. The counter-terrorism preparedness to be exercised by the special forces is an important capacity for overall preparedness in Norway. History, our neighbouring countries, our neighbourhoods, with the terrorist operations that have taken place in recent years, shows that this can be a real danger. So let's try to cover that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e210	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e215	It is interesting to say to the right government that hull is no problem – we could only buy it. It's the number of pilots and mechanics that are delineating. Yes, the government has now had five years to train many, both pilots and mechanics, if that's what the problem is, and we can get started tomorrow. There is no need to weaken preparedness in the north as repressively as one does. We know that this is not in line with professional-military advice. There is no desire to move a Bell helicopter to Back. What's left in the north is what's interesting. Could the Council of State do any good for what the three remaining Bell 412 helicopters on Bardufoss, who are dedicated Army, will be able to do? And how many will be prepared to compare with the level of the day? Now there's two on standby. How many to be ready when the other helicopters are moved to Back
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e222	I don't know where Navarsete's representative takes his professional military advice from. I'll get my professional military advice from the Chief of Defense. That's the line I'm going to follow. The change we're making, and the construction of a counter-terrorism preparedness with the special forces is in line with the Chief of Defense's professional-military advice. Training pilots and mechanics is also a limited resource. We're educating as many people as we can. But I said the Air Force has a lot of work to do in phase-in many new capacities. It's a constraint. With regard to the third on the two helicopters, they are on standby to support the police. So it's a civil capacity. We've said that we're going to cover it in other ways before we bring it down. It's not like Navarsete claims that we're weakening preparedness in the north. No, we're going to cover up the civil capabilities. But the Bell helicopters and the defense's capabilities are primarily there to serve the defense, and then there's a side agreement that gives support to civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e231	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e237	I thank you for your answer. I also have to ask that the Council of State do a little more good for the answer he gave to the representative Anniken Huitfeldt. He said he's going to stick to the last decision. Can the Council of State refer to that decision, or does it refer to the budget text or to the position when it talks about decisions? It's really very important, and not just a small matter, that he refers to what's in the resolution. Back to Bardufoss, which is the leaping point, for the council says Bell-helicopter is the dedicated Army, and it's the Army that's concerned. There are no numbers of the concern messages coming to us from the Army, and it's clear that if the government doesn't want to stick to it, it's his case. But is there any way to figure this out? Is there any real impact assessment at all? How many hours' flight time should be set at the disposal of the Army? Does that correspond to what one has today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e244	There were very many flying questions in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e249	The last is the most important thing, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e254	It's also like it's my privilege to choose what I'm going to answer. When I get 35, I get to pick out someone -- you can do that from this pulpit. In the state budget this year, we're landing the proposals we had in the land-use proposition. We got a majority for those proposals. When we examined the state budget adopted in December 2018, we received a majority in the Stortingen for the proposals for changes that we promoted in the Land Power Proposition. I think it might be a good exercise, even for the opposition, to deal with what is a majority decision. I record that it's not everywhere in the country you think majority decisions are what it sounds like, but I think in the Stortinget it might be nice to deal with it. We landed the land force proposition by the budget decision in December, and we are dealing with the majority decisions in the Storting and are working out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e263	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e268	I think I can continue on the line I was on, because I did not get a response from the Council of State. On December 17th was a sad day for the Army, for the preparedness and security of the north. The decision to move six Bell 412 helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge stands as an incomprehensible and noticeable weakening of preparedness in the north. We prefer to never use large parts of the defense's capabilities, just as we don't want to use the insurance on our house. The military helicopters have a very high value in addition to the specific military tasks. These are also tasks that civil helicopters cannot replace – what goes on in the military. Today there are two ready-to-use Bell 412 helicopters on Bardufoss at any time that are ready for action. The most recent week of search and rescue was the terrible accident in Tamokdalen, an operation that is still going on. So with the government's proposal, six out of nine Bell 412 helicopters have to be moved to Rygge, and they have to be replaced, among other things. Civilian helicopter, wins the Council of State. They added in both the Army and the Air Force in Inner Troms are frustrated by the situation, especially Brigade North who believes it is an ethical and moral dilemma and a great operational weakening to lose six specifically dedicated military helicopters. It's not everyone who's in agreement with the government that it's easy and easy to replace these helicopters with civil helicopters. As far as I know, according to international law, civilians are not supposed to be able to operate in war and crisis. The whole purpose of training our defense is that they should be able to operate in war and crisis. Therefore, it is important for me to hear what the civil helicopters are supposed to do of military tasks, and whether an operational concept has been developed for the use of the civil helicopters in military operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e283	It's an ethical dilemma to make these changes, it was said. I agree that Bell is a very good capacity. I also fully agree that the Air Force, in cooperation with the Army, uses Bell for a lot of good things. Most of the emergency samples that the representative frames up here can be solved by civil capabilities without problems. A lot of the flight that the Defense is doing with Bell today, even when they're practicing defense in war, can be done with civilian capabilities – for clean transport can be done. We are increasingly building on our defence that we are going to use civil capabilities to support the defense. That is also the basis of international law. We have to facilitate, so that we ensure that where we take in civilian capacities and use them militarily, that there is definite military use, they have to be labeled as that and uniformed as that. It is also an ethical or a democratic dilemma we are discussing. Constituently, I'm dealing with the Chief of Defense, the Chief of Defense's professional military council, and the Chief of Defence. That's how we organized ourselves. It is the law of a border boss or of another commander to disagree with the chief of defense, I see no problem with that. I listen to a lot of people, and I meet a lot of people in the defense. It's also the way that if I'm going to make recordings where I disagree with the head of defense, I'm going to play them in to him. In written questions from Navarsete, I have been asked about the authority of the Chief of Defence. I believe that here we have an example of Navarsete trying to undermine the authority of the defense chief, when she does not emphasize the priorities he has to do when he gives professional military advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e294	I wasn't after the Council of State's assessment of their relationship with the head of defense. I was busy with what the civil helicopters can do in war or crisis. It's with respect to report almost a trifle act to Stortinget just to talk about such an important question. The question is, when a military helicopter is to be replaced by a civil helicopter, can they – if it becomes a crisis, at worst an invasion – go into a war, go into and be operational in that war? If they can't, what's the point of training with the Army, if one can't use them when they're really going to be used? That's the jumping point of this question. Are we bidden if there will be a war? Are we as bidden as today – with the readiness we have in the north today? If one moves six Bell helicopters and the crews away, and does not replace them with military capabilities, can they join the same line of war?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e303	Yes, it will be fully possible to uniformize a civil capacity and give a civil pilot a military degree and turn it into a military capacity in war. But my answer to Navarsete's question about what we're doing today is that very much of what we're flying with Bell today, we can do with civil capabilities in peacetime, and that's the change we're doing now. The reason why we do that is because we prioritise Bell as a capacity for the special forces to rehearse a counter-terrorism capacity that we think we need, in a security image where we don't primarily see a clean invasion, but perhaps a scenario where we have terrorist operations or other hybrid threats on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e308	It is open for follow-up questions – first Sandra Borch.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e313	The central party has been and strongly disagrees with the government's decision to move six of Army Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge. This will dramatically weaken both the defence capacity and the preparedness of North Norway. I notice that the Council of State is a little drowsy in the answers he gives today, but I'm going to try to be precise in my question. The three Bell helicopters to be left on Bardufoss shall be operational at all times, and how many flight hours shall be made available for support to the Army?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e321	Standby is not weakened in the north when we say we should have alternative capacities to cover it. It is the defense chief who disposes of his capabilities, and how the defense chief chooses to have alternate flight hours for the Army, gets to be a question for him. It may be that he has more oscillators on the 15 and has more than 3 operating machines available up there, but it is basically a capacity issue that the head of defence must give priority to. It's not a question that I'm going to give priority to from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e328	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e333	I notice that the Council of State cannot or will not answer my question. But I'll ask you a little bit about civil helicopter. What requirements have been imposed on the civil helicopters to replace Bell 412 and can these aeroplanes in the dark? If so, how many can fly in the darkness of those who are part of the contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e338	That's actually a very good question. We have concluded a framework agreement on the lease-in of civil helicopters. Then it will be that the need we have for that trip will determine the type of machine and the operational requirements we set for it. The defense can buy what they need to take the different orders. It could also in many ways provide a better capacity than Bell, which also has limitations on how they can operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e343	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e348	The Minister has repeatedly shown that decisions have been taken in the State budget that give him authority to do what he is doing. What I'm asking is whether the minister can point out the decision he thinks is taken in the State budget, which gives him this authority. I can't see that there's such a thing, and since he's so concerned that the majority will decide, I'm really asking him to show us that decision. And if he can't do that, it might be in his place to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e353	And then we're going to start over. So we have a long-term plan adopted in Stortinget. Then, for the sake of the country power, we have a land power proposition that was adopted, with some exceptions. We have explained those exceptions in the State budget for 2019. There we've explained the 2nd battalion, where we've explained the solution with Bell, where we've explained the tank capacity, and there we've explained the extra bet we're doing in Homeland. The sum of it means that we've landed the land power proposition. We have majority decisions in the Grand Duchy that provide us with coverage to move forward with the plans, strategies and proposals we have made in the long-term plan and in the land-use proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e360	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e365	My question goes to Senior Minister Åse Michaelsen. We are facing a huge challenge in the years to come. The need for care services is increasing. The municipalities are under economic pressure. Several tasks are transferred from the specialist health service to the municipalities. The pace of work of employees and the requirements for them in the care and care of municipalities are increasing. According to KS figures, the proportion of part-time employees in the municipalities is 65 pst. It's too high. In many municipalities, as many as four out of five employees work part-time. We can't have it like that. These are typical women's churches, and it's about services that users are totally dependent on. Social insecurity also weakens the continuity and quality of services. You can just imagine what it's like to be a user who has to deal with over 20 employees over a week. We need safe employees if we're to solve the big issues in the welfare state in the coming years. My question is: does the government have a plan to solve this huge challenge facing the whole country to increase the proportion of full-time employees in municipal care?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e376	We have worked over several years with competence – Competencelift 2020. At the latest in the budget adopted for 2019 just before Christmas, there are 1.5 billion. kr to be used within Competence Lift 2020. We have in recent years – by 2018 at the latest – to take the freshest figures we have – 5,000 new annual shifts in the care sector. In addition to this, we are also concerned with continuing training, which is important. This concerns raising the skills of those who are already in the care sector, as well as recruitment — showing that it is important for our young people to be able to enter this profession, making it attractive. We look at alternative tour users to get the shift order to go up on a voluntary basis. We look at how municipalities also place much greater emphasis on a good working environment at work. We look at how individual employees themselves can contribute, be in further development and be allowed – as I mentioned earlier – to continue training. And we also look at good management. As regards Competence Commitment 2020, management is more and more important. We have now had 600 through the management program, and we see that it also gives a huge boost to those who work in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e385	I think competence is important, and it is nice that the Council of State addresses this with competence. But the big challenge is that even those with skills are struggling to get full and firm jobs. According to the Fagbladet, Norway is a grievance in the Nordic region in providing competent help nurses with permanent employment. It's a big challenge, and that's what my question is. I think it needs to be done more to solve these problems. The municipalities are under pressure. They're getting more and more jobs, they've been getting more and more jobs in recent years, and it's hard to recruit enough staff to solve these problems. We think it is so important to recruit competent staff that in our alternative budget we have chosen to give full priority to jobs instead of, for example. tax relief for the richest. Does the Council agree that a strengthened municipal economy would enable municipalities to offer full positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e393	We see that the municipalities have never had as good advice as they have now. Only in 2018 they were added 4 billion. kr extra in the local government sector. If I look at other challenges – I share the representative’s view that we need to increase the proportion of full-time jobs in municipalities – it highlights, among other things. a study conducted by NOVA, that management, skills-enhancing measures and the possibility of continuing training are important for recruiting and maintaining nurses, as I mentioned in the previous response. Looking at the Shift/Turnery Committee, they concluded that a high need for weekend shifts combined with employees working only every three weeks is, in fact, the main cause of involuntary part-time work. This means that you need to look at alternative voluntary solutions for those who want to work differently. The last research we were presented to at Arendalsuka focused on how to think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e400	It is opened for follow-up questions - first Sheida Sangtarash.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e405	Indeed, many of these issues need to be resolved in close cooperation with employees’ organisations and between the social partners. The question is what we should focus on, what kind of plans we should have. Many of those who work in care and care are tour workers, approx. 23 pst. of the number I mentioned earlier, and the tour work is heavy in itself. I just want to make it clear that I'm not concerned with a rhetorical debate in which we throw the ball back and forth or stand here and sound fooled. What I'm concerned about is that the woman who goes from work at 5 p.m. 22.30, probably at home. 23.30, and then she has to get up again at 2. 5:00 a.m. And for every year that goes, the pace increases, she has to run faster, and the next day she probably doesn't have a job. It's her I'm busy. It's her I want to make financially independent and safe in the workplace. SV currently has a proposal for treatment in Stortinget. It's a proposal it's hard to oppose. [[The President clubs.]] We ask the government to make proposals to ensure the right to full time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e414	This is a complex challenge. Now I've answered a lot in terms of these areas. As a former tour worker, I know that it can be demanding. What is important is to look again at how we can find a solution in cooperation with employees and in cooperation with municipalities and organisations to actively participate in voluntary changes related to both tour work and to look at new occupational groups that can come in and relieve the burden in the care and care sectors of the municipalities. Unfortunately, there are too many people today doing a job that others could do. A fully trained nurse can work in an area for which he is trained. I see that a fully trained nurse should not necessarily be the one cleaning out of the dishwasher or going to the store and shopping food. That's where other groups can get in. We see that some municipalities are doing very well with this, among other things. health care hosts, which can relieve you in a lot of areas, so you can work with what you are trained to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e421	Sheida Sangtarash - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e426	I wasn't asked my last question, so I'm going to try to repeat it. It was about a proposal from SV in Stortinget. It's a proposal that it's hard to oppose, I think. We ask the government to make proposals to ensure the right to full time. It would be an important step in the right direction. Will the government support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e433	Much of this is between the parties. We have organisations that are represented – Delta, Trade Union, Nursing Association, etc. It is important that that right of negotiation lies there. Then it is up to each municipality to use the funds they have received – over the budgets, over the framework grant, through the Ministry of Local Affairs – correctly. We see what the last NOU, the most important first, takes up. We're going to work on it, look at what we can learn, and look at what we can deal with in the political here in the government and on the Stortinget when it comes to the NOU the most important first. There's a lot of this coming in. We want to look at what serves and benefits the individual uses the best. It must be the most important thing both for the representative and for us who are in government. How can we best care for the individual user? Local democracy is very strong – the responsibility of local politicians to prioritize the use of their funds in budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e438	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e443	If users are to receive a good offer, there must be enough employees, qualified employees, and employees who do not get sick by being in their job. That is the reality now. We have so many small part-time positions that it's both an equality problem and a class problem. These are often also low-paid jobs. I hear no solution from the Council of State. SV has requested this to be included in the Working Environment Act. In line with the fact that there should be fixed posts, there should also be entire posts. It will ensure much of the quality to those who are to be cared for. SV has also made proposals on recruitment standards, so that we get a basic staffing that makes it possible to have several full positions and also allows more – because people are not going to be completely worn out by their job, but are ready to provide good care – to go to work without getting sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e452	I may not fully understand the question, but I hear what the representative says. When it comes to full-time culture, I think there's a cross-political consensus that we're concerned about it. Municipalities have different projects, but they also need flexibility. Each municipality is different, and in terms of how to use the funds – that individual local democracy decides how they want to have their care and care sector – it is actually stated in the law that we should have a local democracy. Then it's like if we don't change the municipalities and prepare the municipalities for the future in view of an increase in the number of older people and how we're going to cope with the challenge that we know will come, then it doesn't work – it doesn't work out that we're going to continue in the same track. We have to think again, we have to change. Part of this is full-time culture, which is an important piece in this. But once again, this is also the responsibility of the social partners to negotiate how to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e459	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e465	This is also the responsibility of the government. Municipal economy is what I'm talking about – I'm on the municipal committee and I know that the municipalities don't have as good advice as the council says. Flexibility: To be honest, women have been so flexible at all times that it has resulted in their being able to act as an employer that they have ended up with all these strange little things from which a person cannot live or get a pension. The question is: does the Council see the need for changes in legislation, for example: in the Working Environment Act, to legislate for the entire position? And does the Council of State see that manning standards can be a good rule both to ensure that the government prioritises enough money for enough employees – for that is what it is all about – and to ensure that this basic manning is in place, so that it is present for all the users who need these jobs, and for the employees who need a job to live on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e470	To this end, we look at the NOA report, or the latest report on the use of funds, that even rich municipalities that fund funds are not willing to use enough in the care sector either. So that's what we have to work on, making the municipalities aware that they've got funds over the frame. They have been given the means to give higher priority to the care sector. Then it's up to us, when we see that beyond 70 pst. Of those municipalities that are run by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, that we actually put in place there, that we are aware of the use of the funds and that they deliver in relation to the expectations that we have both from the government and from the big business. Then, too, we look at the proposals contained in the NOA study, which are linked to increased pay, dropping unwanted guards and getting a full-time job and job offer. It is primarily a theme for the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e477	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e482	I record that the Council of State – and the government, probably – is not willing to do anything about the important instruments that could be put in place. But the Council of State indicates that this is also the responsibility of the municipalities, and then I will ask about the municipality of Oslo, which has now started with trust-based management in care. They include: organised parts of their care in a different way from before, this stopwatch care and all the New Public Management methods to do what the Progress Party has been very happy about, and to put in place systems where they have more employees, more entire jobs, and where users have more influence over the offer they receive. Does the Council of State see that the way in which the Red-Green City Council in Oslo has done this can be a good model for several municipalities? Does the Council also see that it requires more employees to get it done in such a way, so that more people get a full job?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e489	I see that the municipalities solve their challenges differently. Through the Life-Reform, I also see that this is one of the most important issues – the coherence of services and not least the health of municipalities, how to solve the challenges that are there. That the Oslo Municipality is able to solve the challenges they have is well and good. Life for the rest of our lives is set for us to be able to look at each other. Municipalities should be able to look to each other on how to solve the challenges. You don't have to reinvent the wheel. If the Municipality of Oslo has managed to find a new way of working where you can solve challenges in terms of both user needs, employees' needs, etc., you should of course look at each other. That's the goal of Life's whole life reform: to learn from each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e494	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e499	Norwegian municipalities are spending over a billion on renting health professionals, and there is a shortage of nurses across the country that is well documented. There is a great shortage of special caregivers, as we know our old age care will need in the years to come. Whole jobs and good skills cost money. The council says in its answer to the question that Norwegian municipalities have never had such good advice. Well – before Christmas, the councillor in Stavanger said that teaching standards and nursery standards, which are not funded by the state, make the care of the elderly a loser. All effectiveness and cutbacks must be taken into account in the care of the elderly and in health care. Does the Council of State think it is okay that the care of the elderly becomes a balancing item for the state reforms that the government does not fully finance in Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e506	No, I don't think so. I think every municipality should know its responsibilities. It is local democracy that lies there. In fact, each local government and city government must take care of the most important thing first. The NOU that has now arrived at our table, with which we are going to work, addresses precisely the criteria that must be met when the municipalities sit and decide on their budgets – what to choose and what to choose away. Regardless of the political colour of the municipality, I am very concerned that the most important thing must come first. With regard to the economy, I have to refer again to the reports and studies that have been carried out. There are many municipalities that use part of their funds incorrectly. It has, among other things, host in the public room – now I’m not going to mention this from the pulpit in Stortinget, but it’s municipalities that actually don’t choose to spend money on the most important first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e513	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e518	My question is also addressed to Minister for the Elderly and Public Health Åse Michaelsen. We have gone into the winter months, and air pollution is a serious public health problem in the cities of Norway, not least in Oslo and Bergen, and especially now winter time. In particular, car traffic is responsible for this pollution, especially emissions of NOx and particulate matter, and we can also add sulphur dioxide and lead dust. On a national basis, an estimated 1,500 people die prematurely as a result of air pollution. These are the figures of the Environment Directorate. Restrictions on car traffic are one of the most important measures available to limit air pollution in Norway. In Oslo, tolls have contributed to a real decline in air pollution, which is particularly important for the elderly, and also particularly important for the poor, who typically live in high-air pollution areas. The organisation of cycling and walking in everyday life is also one of the best and simplest public health measures we have, and at the same time helps to reduce air pollution. However, I have not seen that the Minister of Public Health has been particularly clear on these issues in the past, and I am now inviting a dialogue on them. Does the Council agree that it is important for public health that municipalities have the means to ensure clean air and organise cyclists and pedestrians, even at the expense of private cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e529	Now I think some of this might be under the responsibility of another State Council, but I'm going to try to answer as best I can. It is clear that everyone wants the cleanest possible air, and we know that especially in winter days where it is cold and standing air, it can be a challenge in larger cities. But then we also see that there has been a challenge with where set-up measuring devices are located. Many of them may be located in areas close to where we know that particulate matter from car traffic – as the representative, among other things. busy - falling. So the areas where the measurements are taken may not be where people are, so it doesn't always give us the right impression of what is the real particulate matter content. With regard to other challenges, we also see that it is not necessarily just car and car traffic etc. Which is the challenge, well, it's winter maintenance that can be a challenge. Both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Transport are inside both NOx and so on, which they have under their portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e539	I'm absolutely sure you can do the air quality measurements even better. You can also look at the limit values. There is now one question, for example: whether the government should perhaps rely on the maximum limit for air pollution by health authorities instead of the current legal limits. The reason I'm dealing with exactly car traffic is because this is one of the most intense political issues in Norway now, especially in the autumn. We see that very many people in Norway have not been used to restrictions on car traffic, so we have come to a point in the cities where the municipalities have to take action despite it. So, of course, it's important how to do it, and I think it's a cross-political agreement, but it's very important that the Minister of Public Health has a commitment that the municipalities have the means to do it, even in order to be able to impose restrictions on car traffic when needed. One of the reasons I'm dealing with this now is that we have parties that sit in government negotiations, where it's on the table that you want less toll use – and that's one of the most important tools, for example. in Oslo and Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e548	Yes, once again – this is probably under transportation. It's like we've been working a lot on big-city issues, on park and ride, collective action, etc., and then we see that building four-field roads and this using tolls is being criticised by the environmental movement. But we know that there is something that reduces emissions, among other things. from heavy-duty vehicles, it is precisely that there is a curve on the road structure, roads where heavy cars are not allowed to brake and speed up, emissions relative to fuel consumption, etc. It changes in a positive direction for the environment when you have ways where it's much more even, where you have a curve that keeps a steady speed. These are also things that are very important to bring with them when we look at expanding this country. We are a long-distance country, and the Norwegian population is dependent on a car. Everyone does not live in the larger cities, and we are a country of well over five million people. This means that we also have to be able to see that the car is an important means of getting there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e557	It is open to follow-up questions – first Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e562	This is not about whether the car is important to many people, and especially outside the cities. This is just about the city councils, where there are major air pollution challenges, how we can ensure that municipalities have the means they need to take action to meet international air quality requirements. The reason I ask is that I am concerned that the tool package is part of what is on the table in the government negotiations now. I understand that the Minister of Public Health cannot give a guarantee either for or against what is in those negotiations, or what is going to come out of them. But I should have liked the Minister of Public Health to confirm that she acknowledges that the fact that municipalities can also impose restrictions on car traffic into the city is a very important tool for ensuring the statutory, good air, which the municipalities have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e569	Once again, I'm not going to be in the territory of another state council and I'm talking bastantly about something. But it is clear that, as Minister of Public Health, I am very concerned that we have an air that has the best quality possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e574	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e579	My question goes to the Minister for Development. The debate on the level of the development budget has over the last few years overshadowed important debates on the content of development assistance. In Stortinget, the Christian People's Party has had to fight repeatedly to raise the development budget, and I almost have to mention – when I first stand here – that neither in the budget for 2019 nor in the budget agreement entered into has been reached up to the stated goal of 1 pst. of GNI for development assistance. It is, in fact, much more important to discuss the effectiveness, quality and performance of aid, and unfortunately there is no good here. During the harvest months, two grades of aid quality have been published and the result for the government is discouraging reading. In the Commitment to Development index, Norway has fallen to a twelfth place. Sweden and Denmark are at the top. In 2012, Norway was second place on this ranking. The aid quality index of the recognised Global Development Centre is even worse. There's Norway's number 26 out of 27 givers, so the next one is. Education policy would like to talk about the PISA shock. I am uncertain whether the Minister of Development is shocked, but the fact is that the right-wing government has remained for a long time, for four years, without its own Minister of Development. Now this minister has been sitting in the chair for about a year, and therefore I am asking quite openly: what concrete action will he take to strengthen the quality of Norwegian aid management? It's precarious and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e592	Thank you for the question. I notice that the representative first mentioned that there has been too much debate about how much money we give, before she criticises that there is not fully 1 pst, but 0.995 pst. by GNI in support of this budget, which is the same as the red-green government had in 2012 and 2013, to mention two red-green years. But I like the attention on the result, because that's what counts. As regards the report from the Center for Global Development, I disagree with the premise for that report. I disagree with the method, and I disagree with the facts used by the Center for Global Development. Let me do a couple of examples. They assume that the more multilateral assistance we provide, the better we score on their ranking. So they say we're just giving 20 pst. of our assistance multilaterally, while the real number is over 50 pst. Furthermore, we are being pulled down because we are engaged in vulnerable states, because there is a high risk. I believe that precisely because the risk is high and the needs are high, Norway should be involved in vulnerable countries. Then we are criticized and drawn down on the ranking because some of our assistance is not subordinated to the developing countries' own priorities. It is the assistance channelled through non-governmental organisations, on which there is a cross-political agreement in Stortinget that we should channel through non-governmental organisations. I agree that the quality of Norwegian aid can and must be improved, but I do not agree that these reports, and in particular that of the Center for Global Development, are a good judgment on Norwegian development policy. I have taken the initiative for a new performance portal, which is under work now, where everyone should be able to go in and not only look at where we spend money, and how much money we spend, but also whether we reach the goals we set. Hopefully, it will help us to have a better debate on how to use the aid budget, as well as to continue the geographical and thematic focus on Norwegian aid to ensure that we get more money back, better results, and that we contribute to real changes at the level of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e609	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I understand that the Council of State needs to correct the premises for indices where Norway falls so dramatically. I wish he spent more time talking about the concrete steps planned to actually strengthen the quality of Norwegian aid management, for which the Minister of Aid is responsible. Then I would like to ask about the aid reform that we now have on the stairs. It is an aid reform that has gradually been severely delayed. It makes it reported that we lose important key personnel in Norad. There is also uncertainty about the willingness to use outsourcing as an instrument to implement this reform. There the Committee presented a majority comment just before Christmas, critical of the use of outsourcing large parts of the aid management. Is this still a central premise for the reform? And in that case, how is it supposed to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e616	I would like to spend more of my time in the previous answer talking about how we work every day to improve the quality of Norwegian assistance. I think that a very central area is just how we use the resources we have in the aid field. And there we come to the reform that the representative Marthinsen is addressing quite correctly. I believe it is very important that we be able to further develop and pool the expertise in the field of assistance. There is a need for reform; there is a broad consensus on this. And then there's a question of what kind of model to choose for this reform. There is a project group that has looked at the possibility of outsourcing. There is no political decision to use outsourcing, but it has been identified as an option for some parts of the professional community. But, as I said, there is no political decision to use outsourcing. Of course, we are committed to maintaining the competences we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e621	It is open to follow-up questions – first Jette F. Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e627	More of the development assistance has been reported to go to vulnerable countries. It's very good, especially all the time when most of the world's poor are in vulnerable states and traditionally strong states weaken their own institutions and become weaker. So it's positive. But the efforts of vulnerable countries require much more of us as donor countries. It requires more presence, it requires more geography, the state apparatus where we operate is weak, the risk is greater. Therefore, it is a bit strange and almost paradoxical that the Council of State wants Norway to have vulnerable countries as partner countries without our own embassy in any of them. Therefore, my question is what action will the Council of State take to strengthen Norway’s ability to provide effective and good assistance in vulnerable countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e632	Thank you for the question. It's an important issue that travels. It is clear that in some vulnerable countries it is demanding to have their own embassy, simply because the security situation indicates that it is not that easy to operate from the country. Then you have to operate from neighboring countries, and we also work through partners. This means that partners in civil society are important, but also multilateral organisations supported by bilateral involvement from Norway, but not necessarily by presence. We have stressed that in those countries where we have partner countries for long-term development cooperation, we need to have a presence. In some of the vulnerable states, we see that it is demanding to have it, but that does not mean that we should not follow up our efforts. I am pleased that the Workers' Party also points out the importance of engaging in vulnerable countries, cf. the discussion we just had about the Center for the Global Development Report.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e637	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e642	My main question is to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health. 800,000 relatives each year reduce 110 000 yearly jobs in the Norwegian health care system. Family and family care is an invaluable resource. It is called the invisible care, which is not valued, which is not respected. The government launched last year a big message, live your whole life, which was supposed to be a reform for relatives. She wasn't. The government wrote right enough that one would produce a touching strategy, but it was uncertain what time and what binding content he would get. To date, it has been quite impossible to get out of the senior minister what she and the government will actually do for the many relatives. Nursing was introduced in 1986 as an offer to those with particularly heavy care. Today, it's turned into a care allowance, but it still doesn't work after the intention. He doesn't support the relatives enough. The payments are small, and there are great variations in the practice. So the government has promised a quality reform for the elderly. They have promised a reform for the relatives. So there is a great deal of lack when it comes to their needs and their rights to information, training, guidance, downloading, and not least good financial arrangements. So my question to the senior minister is, will the government bring up a case for the Storting to strengthen the care aid scheme, so that it works in line with the intention? Will the government also raise a matter for the Storting regarding the content of the strategy to be developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e657	We've started working on the family strategy that's coming. We have stated that it will come in 2019. But it is not that anything has happened in the meantime. We have presented the quality reform Life throughout our lives, where relatives are part of the reform, and it is a reform that has just started, on 1 January 2019, and will take five years to come. We have created our own family programme, we have strengthened the family support, we have seen how, through the new provision, we can oblige municipalities to provide the necessary family support in terms of both download, training, guidance and the related care assistance. The new provision also reflects the patient and user rights law § 2-8 and thus clarifies the rights of the dependants in relation to the municipal health and care service. We have changed the right to alert and obligation of those working in the local government sector to notify of serious incidents. In addition, we have the daily activity offer, which should then be able to relieve relatives who have some of their loved ones with a dementia diagnosis. There we see that many municipalities, as well as having a daily activity offer, also see that this applies to Saturdays. There has been a rather obvious need and wish for Saturday to be a day when a person has a daily activity offer for this group. We have taken up the best of children in terms of adopted legislative changes to help meet the information and follow-up needs of minor children who are related, of siblings who are related to parents or grandparents. It was also granted 10 million in 2018. kr to the related programme. So it happens very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e668	Maybe there's a lot going on in government offices, but I think most people out there who are relatives, or who know relatives, see that too many people are in a desperate situation. Too many people are doing too much work without having to download, without being respected and without being included in the healthcare system. I thought this was serious, and I could ask for more serious action to be taken. In spite of what's happening, it's actually not good enough, and it happens too late. So to my main question when it was a care assistance scheme: this is a scheme that has been in existence for many years, but still does not work according to the intention, nor after it has been transformed into a care assistance scheme. If the government doesn't have any plans to improve the care assistance system, it's okay that it's said, because it seems like you're happy with the system as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e675	I would like to say that when we now work on the related strategy, there will also be an assessment we make in connection with social benefits. It belongs there, also considering how we want to raise the whole area of business when it comes to relatives. Then it's important to think broadly, because when we first do a job, it's going to be overtime. Then we have to see the context. We have to see how it works in the municipalities, and we have to listen, not least, to relatives as to their needs, and how they can be more involved, included and listened to. That's what we're working on right now, and the related strategy is going to come up in 2019. We've come a long way. I will not promise it until Easter, but during 2019 I will try to get this in place, i.e. as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e682	It is opened for follow-up questions - first Kjersti Top.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e687	I hear the Council of State say that one has to think widely when it comes to the social welfare scheme. But the care allowance is a concrete matter – it is simply about money. Then you don't have to think so much, because it's about giving those who care for special, burdensome tasks, an economic compensation that it's actually possible to live with. Then there are concrete things that should be considered when it relates to improvements in the care aid scheme. I thought the progress party was to make this a right. It's not today, and maybe it can be discussed. But at least it can be discussed whether national tariffs need to be imposed for hours. There's also a lot of variation, and there's a lot of variation in the number of hours you get. What will be evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e694	All of this will be assessed in the related strategy, and it is important that a specific strategy should take a broad view. Then we must not forget that a new provision has been included in the Health and Care Services Act that both brings together and clarifies the responsibilities of the municipalities towards those who have an extra heavy care job. That provision entered into force on 1 October 2017 and obliges municipalities to provide the necessary related support in the form of relief, training, guidance and the related care assistance. However, it is important that if this does not work well enough, it will also be assessed – and it will be assessed through the related strategy that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e701	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e707	My question is also addressed to the Minister for Older People and Public Health. Parents should be the boss of their own lives. It is the starting point of the Workers' Party's old age policy. And when we say that older people should be the boss of their own lives, we all mean, even older people who have got dementia. In Norway today, about 77 000 people live with dementia diagnosis. The number will double in the next decades if development continues as it is today. Unfortunately, many of these lives live with great limitations for themselves and their relatives. The fear of being lost, injured or dying in the worst cases is demanding in everyday life for couples and families where someone is hit by dementia. Fortunately, technological aids are available. GPS tracking of people has been allowed since 2013, i.e. since the Progress Party took over the government offices. Nevertheless, only 611 persons were registered with decisions on GPS tracking and follow-up from the municipality, according to the latest SSB figures, from 2017. 611 people, that is, 77 000 people who have the diagnosis. The police want more active use of GPS tracking. They search weekly for people who disappear from their home or from their home. Many never come home alive, and even for those who are found, this is associated with fear and is a great burden for both patients and relatives. The National Public Health Association also calls for more use of this aid. I wonder what the Minister for the Elderly has done to speed up the use of GPS aids for people with dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e718	In the case of welfare technologies, GPS is also part of the use – both a social alarm and other good welfare measures that you can use. With regard to the question from the representative Moflag about GPS tracking in particular, it is that consent from the individual user, and from relatives where the individual cannot give it to himself, is important, but it also means that the municipalities must be willing to test out, test out and see how this can be done. In various areas, we have also motivated municipalities to apply welfare technology. We have had a project in which many municipalities have participated – I think there are some people and twenty, without me going to make it quite clear. They have been involved in a well-being pilot project and have seen how they can become a leader in their own lives – as the representative says – much more so. I also share the representative's concern about the ability and ability to find those who have a dementia diagnosis, and who walk, who are out. It's important. That's why I think the municipalities are going to look even more closely at the use of welfare technology. This is also part of Life's whole life. It has been mentioned how municipalities can facilitate innovation and take on new technologies to a much greater extent. We have e-health, and we have other things, among others. in the state I come from, where you work heavily with new technology and how you can ensure that each elderly person and others with a dementia diagnosis can be better cared for. So this is the future. Here we have to grab hold of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e727	Yes, that's the future, but it's also the present, as it's been allowed since 2013, but it's almost not in use, and that's what I want the Secretary of State to address. The minister was within e-health in his reply. Before Christmas I had a meeting with a Norwegian e-health company called Mentis Cura. They have developed a solution to diagnose dementia by means of EEG equipment, which is already present in the country’s hospital. This has been used in several places in Europe and Japan, but they are not allowed into Norwegian hospitals. Now, of course, it's not like that there's a government council that decides which companies to use in Norwegian hospitals, but I still want a general consideration from the senior minister about what she wants to do to ensure that e-health is used, which allows people to get their dementia diagnosis faster, because it takes too much time, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e736	I'm very concerned about e-health, because, as the representative also says, that's the future, but that's also the present. Now we have my good colleague, the Health Minister, sitting in the hall, who is also concerned about what you open up to in the hospital. And I'm concerned about what's going on in the municipalities. I think there's got to be an awareness of what's going on out there in the municipalities. That means that we, and I, have to take responsibility for being with and sharing knowledge, get on the ground that there are actually tools that can be used, which we also see through life. It's not always the way some municipalities point out when I have conversations with them, that this has something to do with economics. Very often it turns out that just putting it into use could relieve the positive. Neither should it be, as many people see it, that new technology is wires and lamps, and that it should no longer be human. It's important to be able to think both of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e745	There will be follow-up questions – first Tuva Moflag.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e750	Yes, now it is not the municipality that diagnoses, it is the permanent and specialist health services that do, and that is what my question was about. But when we're dealing with this with diagnosis, it often takes many years for patients to get a dementia diagnosis. It can take up to four to five years. This is a period that is as demanding as it is after having been diagnosed. You might experience the same challenges in everyday life. We've put in place day-time activities places for people with dementia, but here's a requirement for a dementia diagnosis. What does the Minister of Older People think about day-time activities places being used by people with cognitive failure, even if they have not been diagnosed with dementia? These could be people who are under investigation for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e757	This is part of the specialist health service and the decision-maker, as the representative also mentions. We are now looking at the responsibility of the decision maker, and making the right diagnosis at the right time is very important. But then we also have to facilitate a dementia-friendly society. We have Demen Plan 2020, and we want to continue working on how we can facilitate a dementia-friendly society, among other things. The awareness out there, because even if you don't have a diagnosis, you see the first signs. This applies, inter alia, to: in the field of screening; it has something to do with being able to recognise and recognize what constitutes an early start to dementia. We also know that a lot of people out there haven't got this confirmed by the D.A., but you can see that the family points out that something's happening, that we're also making it aware. That's why a dementia-friendly society is a society where everyone participates in seeing the individual user, the individual elderly, and those with an incipient disease, and takes the best care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e764	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e769	In this case, it is the opposite, because it is the municipalities that are responsible for the daily activity offer, not the doctor or the specialist health service. And what I'm asking is, in concrete terms, is whether the Minister of Older People believes that municipalities should be able to offer daytime activities to people who have failed cognitively, even though they have not yet been diagnosed with dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e774	I think that the municipalities themselves should be able to assess how they will take care of the individual user, the individual resident in their municipality who has challenges in the health sector. In the case of day-time activities, what you offer is also different from municipality to municipality. Many of the offers made in municipalities will be well adapted to people who have not necessarily been diagnosed with dementia but who need to have a daily activity offer and be cared for. This is also lifelong in Life: how we can see some users who actually need that support and that offer in the daytime, in order to be cared for well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e783	The oral question time is over, and we go to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e797	There will be some changes in the question list, and the President will show the electronic question list in this context. The proposed changes are proposed and approved. - It's a note. The changes were: Question 1, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 2, from the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e813	Question 1, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e818	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘There is a broad consensus on the car charging system in Norway and to maintain the charging benefits for zero-emission cars out of this grossing-up period. The industry itself sees the need for a new charging system for passenger and vans. The industry wants a broad investigation into the future charging system in cooperation with the industry itself. Will the Council of State initiate a wide-ranging investigation into our future car tax system, which includes both the one-off and user charges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e827	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e832	It was a positive answer, which I hoped to get. Then the question is, when is it going to start?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e837	The Jeleia platform announced a holistic review of the car charges so that we would have a car charge system that is viable even after 2025. We are now in new government negotiations, and it is natural that we wait for them before we continue to work. But the government has the intention to start such a work, with the aim that we should have time to implement a car tax system that is viable after 2025, before 2025, so that one also has time for different phases. As a result, these assessments, which are located on the Jeleia platform, will start during and at the best time. It is linked to the car tax assessments that have also been carried out in the annual government budgets. So there's reason to believe that this work will be prioritised by us in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e842	Then my last question about the industry itself will be properly involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e847	I feel that it was included in the first question. Then the answer was yes, and it is still.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e855	This question, from the representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e860	‘The Youth Data Survey of the Year shows a trend towards lower school well-being and an increase in mental health disorders. Students express that the sum of samples leads to increased pressure beyond what is naturally the result of a test situation. Seven out of ten asked students experience schoolwork as stressful. Students feel powerless when the test press becomes too big, and state that it becomes difficult to perform and show what they really can. Does the Council of State see this challenge, and will the government take action to reduce the overall scope of tests and tests?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e867	It is an important theme that the representative addresses. We have seen from various studies that both school-related stress and mental health challenges have increased among young people since the 1990s and up to the present day. Stress has several sides. Positive stress may be necessary to focus and achieve good results. At the same time, long - term negative stress can have far - reaching consequences, and we must take this seriously. All pupils shall have the opportunity to experience mastering and safety. The government is concerned with mental health among children and young people. In 2017, the Ministry of Knowledge gained a knowledge overview that says something about the causes of school-related stress and points to what schools can do to counteract this. Today’s students meet a number of demands and expectations. It's about expectations from school, teachers, parents and society, but also about expectations that individual students have for themselves. According to the report of the Knowledge Centre for Education, stress at school is the result of students experiencing an imbalance between demands and expectations on the one hand and school support on the other. Schools can do a lot to give students the support they need to combat negative stress. Different education that engages, and positive challenges are important. A socially good learning environment where students feel safe, also counteracts stress. All those working with children and young people should have a conscious view of how demands and expectations are communicated. It is important to avoid developing a stress culture at school. Schools must also ensure a level playing field and help students to sort and prioritise. With regard to the overall scope of tests and tests, teachers and school leaders are largely determined. On the country side, the number of tests imposed and tests is very limited. Students spend only 15 hours on compulsory national tests and screening tests during their 13 years in school. Their aim is to provide teachers, school owners and national authorities with the necessary knowledge of the different subjects and to provide teachers with tools to follow-up to each student. All students have the right to individual assessment in the field, but it is up to the teachers to decide how to obtain information about the learning of students. The freedom of speech of teachers is an important principle in school. Detailed governance or limitations on the assessment practices of teachers would be unwise. Teachers need room to exercise their professional judgement. However, in the new overarching part of the curriculum, we stress that schools and teachers need to balance the need for good information on the learning and undesirable consequences of different assessment situations. Young people’s experience of demands and expectations comes from more arenas than school, and it is an important task to provide them with tools to handle these expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e884	I thank you for your answer. Stress and pressure are a real problem issue that is stressful. Stress and pressure you can't stand can be a problem, and we have to deal with it before the health sector is the only solution. Stress and stress stress in school everyday life should preferably be solved in schools rather than in the health sector. Then it's about the leadership that the government provides for school leaders, teachers and the evaluation of students' learning, being in line with that. It has become an established truth that knowledge, skills and competences are not in place until they are tested, and it's almost as if what we can test is the most worth. What does the Minister of Health think about how we communicate, test, rank and use grades as external motivation for school learning, and what will the Minister of Health do to correct the imbalance he himself refers to?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e893	I said quite a lot in my previous answer about what is done in school for this. I don't think there's a simple answer to what's causing more kids today to experience a greater pressure and have more mental health challenges than what's measured earlier. The feedback we get from youth is about stress and pressure not only from school, but also from the environment. At the same time, today we are enough good enough to give an offer, to ask and to talk about mental health challenges. So the growth we see is not necessarily due to the fact that there has been an increase, but also that today, hopefully, we are discovering challenges more often than before. But it is important to equip young people for this, and therefore public health and lifelong learning will also enter school as one of three multidisciplinary themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e900	Clearly, there is a connection between mental health, stress and pressure and testing in school, but I agree with the Council of State that it is important to take inwards. Professor Madsen published the book "Generation Performance" before Christmas. There he refers to the health paradox and talks about how, in part, we create a mentally suffering generation precisely with the enormous attention. He describes a paralysing demand among young people to perform and says that mental distress is increasing — just as the Young Data Survey also shows. Madsen itself gives the health sector part of the responsibility for the unhealthy pursuit of mental health. Does the Council agree with Professor Madsen, who refreshes the youth and gives psychologists and health care part of the responsibility, and what might he do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e909	I must admit that I have not read that book, so I cannot answer it directly. But I see that some people in the debate call for health care to make young people unnecessary when it comes to mental health challenges that you can define as the usual ups and downs of life. I believe that is the wrong diagnosis. The main challenge remains that we do not provide timely and adequate assistance to children and young people with serious mental health challenges. So this is not an area where I want to accept that one describes that the main challenge is kind of overtreatment or overindulgence. The main challenge remains that we do not quickly and properly meet those who really have quite serious mental health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e917	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «In the treatment of the NTP, the Workers' Party supported the proposal that the major collective projects in cities should be supported by up to 70 p.m. and that we have followed up in our alternative state budget. There are large sums that could either release funds for new infrastructure projects in major cities or have been used to reduce the toll burden. The Advance Party and the other bourgeois parties voted against in the NTP. What is the reason why the Government and the Advance Party voted against a concrete proposal that could actually reduce tolls in the four major cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e926	First of all to the premise, that the Labour Party follows this up in its alternative state budget: it's actually wrong, that's what I have repeated from the pulpit in this house several times. So it's going to have an increase of 50 pst. until 70 p.m., as the Labour Party suggests, it would cost 613 million in the 2019 budget. kr. The working party proposes 500 million. kr and may not follow up their own promises to the cities. It's the one. The second is that the proposal for an alternative national transport plan from the Workers' Party does not finance the projects they want. That means that the Workers' Party's proposal to increase from 50 pst. to 70 pst. in urban areas in reality, there is nothing other than an empty promise that cannot be kept unless it affects road and rail projects in the districts. Our national transport plan is a balance between important and proper urban investment. Therefore, we almost double the investment in urban areas in 2019. At the same time, however, there is a balance towards the further development of collective provision and road and rail projects in the District of Norway. We are voting against the Labour Party's proposals because, firstly, they are not consistent, secondly, because they are not even able to be funded by the Labour Party, and thirdly, because if it were implemented within the framework of the National Transport Plan, that proposal would have taken 10 billion. NOK in the Norwegian district to move them to Norwegian cities. It is a policy that is simply not supported by the public. That is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e940	What I don't get any sense of is why the Toll Party locally in Oslo later looks like they're against tolls, when they've gone in for an extension of E18 that will mean something for the wallet to people most. People in and around Oslo will get increased expenditure on bombs when the government's new E18 is ready in 2025. How does the reform work of the Progress Party to reduce the amount of new E18 tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e945	I only register in an introduction – before I answer the question – that when the Workers' Party is confronted that they themselves do not follow their own promises, one does not respond to it either. I'll be able to take note of that. We continue our efforts to reduce the toll tax on the car list. That is why we are implementing a toll reform by reducing the number of companies. We try to reduce the cost of each road project, which also reduces the toll tax – including on the E18 in the West Corridor, which is an important project to be realised, but where one also has the potential to build roads faster, cheaper and more efficiently. For this reason, our efforts to reduce tolls will in the future also focus on the ongoing reform of the toll sector, on the ongoing work with the individual project to reduce costs — and with that also the toll for most people. It requires local support if one is to have a toll financing construction project. Of course, the individual parties in the local government are also free to choose how to deal with tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e954	The answer contrasts with the fact that tolls have increased during this government, and the number of toll entries has increased. The tolls are used for two purposes: construction of roads regulate car traffic by either making it more difficult to use cars or making it easier to choose from public transport; Does the Council support the two purposes for which tolls are to be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e968	It is quite unlikely to be a witness that we get criticism from the Labour Party to pursue a policy that the Labour Party is for, for which the Labour Party provided the basis, and for which the Labour Party agrees, not only in the Municipal Government and in the urban areas, but also in the Stortinget. We accept that in urban areas there are negotiations between the state and the specific urban areas, both on the economic framework of the state and on how one disposes of the money. Because we're totally dependent on solving the big challenges in the biggest urban areas, we've also accepted that a user is using tolls like this. And then we have a primary point of departure, which is that it should be those who pay tolls, who enjoy the tolls. It's not always that we feel that it's the most important priority when we meet Labour Party politicians in the urban areas – but that's what we're going to do again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e978	It would have been tempting to comment on the previous questions and the Minister of Transport's somewhat random relationship with the truth, but it probably doesn't open up the rules, so I can go to my question: ‘Bane NOR had to take over Condotte’s responsibility on Follobanen last year. Condotte should never have received the contract, and Bane NOR has to pay several hundred million in damages to the company that was actually to be awarded the contract. An overall overview of the additional costs arising from the clean-up is not available. An overview that would be available in December has been pushed out in time. When will the additional costs of the Folloban tender be known to the public?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e987	Introducingly, I would like to point out that there is very bad luck when complications arise in connection with large and important development projects such as Follobana. I expect good progress and good management of all transportation projects where government permits resources. Unexpected circumstances may still occur in some projects. In the case of the representative Myrli called ‘the extra costs of the tender’, Bane NOR has strove to address the challenges as neatly as possible. Bane NOR has always focused on ensuring progress in the Follobane project and reducing the economic impact on the entire project, its subcontractors and suppliers. The store has previously been informed that Bane NOR cancelled the contract with Condotte at the end of January last year after Condotte had claimed bankruptcy protection. Condotte was seen under public administration in August 2018 pending bankruptcy. Multiple processes associated with the given condotte are in progress, but the processes are required and time spent. because they have projects in several countries. Bane NOR has informed me that the company is in good dialogue with the condotte about the given, and that the parties expect to complete the process as soon as possible. Path NOR means to be able to provide a full cost overview for the Follobane project in a short time. On the question from the representative Myrli, one can get the impression that the legal proceedings between Skanska Norway AS and Bane NOR deal with his financial situation. As you know, Skanska has sued Bane NOR for a claim for a positive interest in the contract. Skanska believes that the offer to Condotte should have been rejected, and that the contract should have been awarded to Skanska as a result of the fact that Condotte did not add the establishment of mountain reinforcements. The case is not directly related to the fact that Bane NOR has cancelled the contract with condotte, as the question asks. In December 2018, appeals were settled, and Borgarting's law came to the same conclusion as the District Court. The compensation requirement was slightly reduced to 272 million. kr. Path NOR now makes a thorough assessment of the judgment and will take a decision on the appeal issue. With the signals we've now received from Bane NOR, we expect the final numbers for this to come within a short time, and then of course they will also be known to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1004	I thank the Minister of Transport for the answer, and I fully agree that this is very unfortunate. I just want to say that the connection that he insinuates that I have done in the question was not intended. That's not how I read the question, and I just want to say that that's not the idea. After Condotte was thrown out of Follobanen, four new contracts had to be awarded to other contractors. As far as I know, it amounts to well over 1 billion. kr. So in addition, we're talking about a replacement amount of 272 million. kr, as the Council of State said. So it's about a lot of money that this mess has led to. A number of issues have been revealed on the Folloban, concerning unincorporated employment, the high use of rentals by very expensive consultants and pay levels for some employees who have to be considered as being completely excluded. My question is: does the Minister for Transport have control over the development of Follobanen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1013	Yes, we do. But there is no concealment that we would have liked to have been without accidental cost growth, accidental lawsuits between Bane NOR and contractors and disputes about it. It must always try to avoid, and with it also help to keep costs down, that we keep progressing optimally, and that the projects are as tidy as possible. We've had shifts in the timelines on the construction of Follobana, and we've had shifts in costs. I still mean that what is decisive now is that in the phase we are now in, we actually make sure that those who are responsible for the implementation of the project know that we have clear expectations that the rest of the project will be completed before the timeline that is now mirrored, and within the financial framework that is set at its disposal. That's what I'm assuming they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1020	I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Transport thinks this is just as unfortunate as all of us. But now it's happening on the guard of the Minister of Transport. He has the highest responsibility, and he has the constitutional responsibility towards Stortinget. That's why it's his responsibility, too. Let me finally ask if the situation on Folloban is now such that we still relate to the current economic framework that has been adopted, or the governance framework, as it is well formally called. The question is: is the adopted governance framework still applicable and still applicable to the agreed timetable for the development of Folloban? Or can we imagine that there will be postponements when the track is finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1027	It's quite right that I'm constitutionally responsible. At the same time, in the case of required infrastructure projects such as this, which have a governance framework of 26 billion. kr, it is difficult for both me and all actors to provide any guarantee that accidental or unwanted events will not happen. For this reason, I have said that my focus is to properly control and be clear to those who have the development contracts, that the framework that we put in place is that they are indebted. The governance framework for this project is 26.3 billion. kr. It is still in force. And if there were to be other needs, of course, the Storting would be presented to you, in line with usual practice, if we had to allow more money for this project. I don't have a reason to believe it now. The second is that one has plans to complete Follobana until December 2021. That timetable is also fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1039	‘In two recent supervisory reports, the Patient Travel Office of Oslo University Hospital is criticised. The County Council concludes by violating the defence legitimacy requirement of the specialist health service law § 2-2. The size has decided to ask the government to carry out a wide review of patient travel legislation and to promote the cause of the Storting with measures to improve the scheme. But nothing has happened in one year. What does the government do to ensure defensive patient travel, and why is not self-execution a possible transport solution for patients with poor health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1046	Health regions are responsible for providing sound specialist health services to the population, including patient travel. The patient’s rights of travel to and from treatment are specified in the patient travel regulations. Health supervision and the counties are entrusted with the task of supervising the discharge of their responsibilities by health undertakings in accordance with the requirements laid down in law, regulation or administrative action. Of course, I expect healthcare companies to comply with any prudential requirements related to patient travel. Health regions, with which the representative is probably familiar, have assessed the possibility of establishing patient transport for patients with particular ill health under their own control. The conclusion has been reached so far that this is not possible within the current legislation on professional transport. However, health regions have made representations to the Ministry of Transport in connection with the fact that amendments to the Professional Transport Act have been consulted. In the recordings they ask for an attempt to find opportunities for healthcare companies to establish the transport of patients under their own control. We await the examination by the Ministry of Transport of the proposals that have been submitted at the hearing. In the spring of 2018, the majority took three decisions, major decisions 615, 616 and 617, relating to the patient travel scheme. The Ministry of Health and Health is now following up the decision of the Storting through a mission to the Health Directorate and the regional health companies for 2019. At the corporate meeting later in January, I would like to ask the health regions to review the organisation of the patient travel system in line with the decision to raise the issue. It shall be in parallel with the review and evaluation of patient travel legislation by the Directorate-General for Health. The purpose of this work is to ensure that the patient travel area is organised in a way that contributes to sound and equivalent services. The final report of the work shall be completed by the summer of 2020, taking into account any follow-up by 2021. I want to inform Stortinget about further follow-up in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1057	Thanks for the information. For this purpose, with a new law on professional transport and that it is not possible to run under today's legislation in its own direction, I would like to ask: How long will it take before we can change our laws? This is clearly part of the solution for some of the patients who have poor health – actually for poor health perhaps anyway – to be in a taxi. I mean Health Bergen has such an offer. I do not know if the Minister of Health can respond to this on a standing basis, but I have at least been informed that there are actually some health care providers. So to the follow-up to the Storting decision: Does that mean that there will be no changes in the current situation until 2021? I have to say that with all the messages we get that things don't work, it's quite a long time longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1064	Firstly, I would like to say that I also expect changes to take place before 2021 within the current arrangements. It is clear that we see major challenges related to the agreement with a taxi in some hospitals, and that is a responsibility the hospitals have: to follow up directly those they have agreements with. Here are great opportunities for improvement, regardless of the work I presented. So it's true, as the representative says, that several hospitals have what they call white cars – they have a little different names – that are actually some kind of ambulance that is not in an ambulance and that is used for patients who are too bad to be transported in a taxi, but who would otherwise be transported in an ambulance. This is completely possible for hospitals to do, and so do they at Oslo University Hospital. Here it is about patients who could initially be transported by taxi, which one can not do through today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1071	I'll thank you. So white cars are also an option for OUS, and they can start this kind of thing. There are nuances in this, in my view, but I'm trying to understand. Following the decision of the Grand Duchy: I am pleased that the Council of State says it is necessary to make improvements before 2021, but will the Council of State take initiative and demand that it do so? I understand that the Council of State has now seen demands for this work to be done, but will it also demand that the necessary improvements be made over time? Assuming that someone has even been responsible for a crime in the services, it's quite serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1078	I see that there may be nuances in terms of which patients can use one or the other offer, and that would be the case. But I actually experience that patients who have a health situation where they would be transported with an ambulance can use the white cars if that's enough. But as I said, if there are patients who could otherwise be transported by taxi, one would not be able to have a separate offer with today's legislation. It's a work that's under the control of the Department of Transport. I do not feel that there is a need for me to give an additional task to the health regions related to continuous improvement in the system, because I believe that this is already a requirement. Here's one of the things. a supervisory matter, which I – as I said at the outset – of course expect to be followed up, but I have also been continuously briefed by the hospitals that have had challenges in this regard, on their efforts to improve the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1088	‘The Melin Group owns and controls payment solutions, collection requirements and patient communication at its medical office. To the NRK on 29 December 2018, the head of the Board of Medical Sciences, Svein Aarseth, says that ‘we do not like the fact that there is actually only one person who has such an influence on what is happening in the primary health service, with record-keeping systems, payment systems and communication with patients’. Is the Council of State in agreement with Aarseth in this, and what will the Council of State actually do about the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1095	Private actors such as providers of different products and services for health and care services are essential. I want innovation, and I also want innovation that helps health and care services work better, and that our welfare services become sustainable. That kind of innovation also has a company that Melin contributed to. At the same time, it is equally important that there be fair and fair competition and that no monopoly situations are established. Decision-makers, physiotherapists and others who are private operators in the municipal health and care services are currently themselves responsible for the choice of suppliers and it is important that they exercise the role of ordering in a good way. When it comes to the question of how many market players there should be, this is not regulated by a law that I am responsible for. The issue of dominant market position lies with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and with the Competition Authority to be assessed. I myself closely monitor both private and public actors and ensure that their ICT systems speak together in a good way, so that they contribute to the necessary interaction and provide the basis for further innovation. This includes, inter alia: solutions which must be capable of sharing information safely, efficiently and with good quality, which also make it useful to others. We are working on this through the work of realising one citizen – one journal. I also expect the public, our health regions and the others responsible for this to facilitate private participation in that work and to have services and services that can connect. And I have expectations that the private actors will also facilitate good interaction with the public services. Integration and cooperation mean I have to go both ways. If we see that this becomes a problem in the future, we will of course also consider using the law and regulations to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1110	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. But what comes from feedback from decision-makers and from different actors is that the dominant position of one actor, by integrating into different stages, makes it difficult, among other things. integration with health Norway.no. It also hampers integration with other suppliers, and there is also some background to the matter being raised, and the question is asked. But I'm glad that the Council of State shows the willingness to look into the issue. It's an effect related to Melin that it's important to focus on, and that's what debt collection is all about. It turns out that there were 27 000 forced recovery from the country’s medical offices in 2017. When people come to doctors' offices, it's for them to try to make people healthy, not create new problems for people. Is the Minister for Health aware of this issue related to debt collection? Is there something he wants to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1117	Yes, I am aware of that issue, and it is difficult. On the one hand, I fully understand that firm offices that are small and have busy business days and many administrative tasks, choose to assign some of these tasks to professional actors – like others who run smaller businesses, do. But it is also important that the actors to whom they then put this out act in a good way and within what is applicable to laws and regulations. It is the Financial Supervisory Authority that supervises this, and in 2016 Melin Collectors got criticism from the Financial Supervisory Authority for illegal collection rooms against 3,996 minors and for having charged too high fees too early. So I also expect the supervisory authorities that we have in this area to follow and take care that the rules that we have set for this kind of question are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1122	In the follow-up to it, it is also important what kind of guidance is given, for those who meet in the medical office, are some of those who have the most difficulty in different areas, whether the situation is short-lived or chronic. It could be older, and one has had examples of people who should have come to the doctor to confirm that they have dementia, and then they end up with debt collection requirements in retrospect. You have people struggling with rushes and psychiatry, heavy loads, and getting into a debt collection run can be something that enhances their problem and creates a risk of suicide, as you see reports from other countries. The question then arises: How will the Council of State contribute to a good collection system in Norway, linked to health, which ensures that vulnerable groups are protected from entering a collection cycle that could aggravate their health situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1127	It is the general requirements for debt collection that apply. But then it is that decision-makers who choose to remove payment or collection schemes continue to be responsible for the practice that is and for complying with health legislation in that area. So here I feel that the main challenge will be linked to the outreach practice. It's the supervisory authorities that have to take care of. But it's clear it's a challenge that we have many very small firm offices, and then this becomes more demanding. But I also feel that the Medical Association has taken this issue seriously and is working to provide its members with good guidance and support in this type of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1137	‘The surveillance report following the incident in which a 15-year-old committed a knife drop at the Sørlandsenter in July 2017 reveals that the girl had been placed in a commercial child protection measure that broke several laws, that the crew of the measure was inadequate, and that she was denied health care. Bufdir has terminated the framework agreement with the company Nærømsorg Sør. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for the company to repay the part of the surplus due to illegal operation, inadequate manning and lack of quality of the offer?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1144	The supervisory report concludes with several offences, unfortunately. It also makes serious criticisms of the Child Welfare Service and the BUP. Buffetate has been considered to have provided adequate services. The County therefore did not conclude with a crime concerning the work of Bufetat in the case. Close care has been subject over time to extensive follow-up and control both from the Bufatat region south and from Bufdir. Bufdir has terminated the framework agreement with Nursing, to which the representative referred, in the context of the sum of deviations and breaches of different supervisory reports, and that the dialogue on handling non-conformities has not been reliable. Bufdir requires reimbursement from suppliers in different contexts. It may be in cases where it is found to be less skilled than intended. It has also been done to the supplier concerned in relation to the framework agreement. In the case in question, the girl of the Buffetat region south was placed with Nærkorg through a single purchase outside the framework agreement, and Buffdir states that in the single purchase it has been considered not appropriate to prepare a claim for a relatively short stay. As the representative knows, the government has launched a comprehensive review of the framework for private child protection. The aim is to ensure the proper use of the actors, efficient use of resources and the best possible provision for the children, of course, as well as the legal certainty of the children and the family. That work includes the institution area. In addition to the work of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality on going through the private field in the field of child protection, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has also set up a public body to monitor the flows of money in publicly funded welfare services. The Committee shall propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being and to prevent undesirable tax adaptation in companies mainly financed by public funds. The benefits of private suppliers will also be further assessed here. This is a necessary work that I very much expect to ensure that we have the opportunity to continue to deliver a variety of offers. The most important thing is that it provides children with a high quality offering, while ensuring that public funds are used in the best possible and efficient way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1159	Thank you for your comments. I do not think the main question was answered, namely why it is not required a refund from the measure where the girl who killed the knife was located. It is well documented that it was not enough skilled at work. It has been documented in both the District Court, the Law of Lawyers and supervisory reports, so I think many people will have an answer as to why that measure does not have to pay back, in addition to the fact that it was a short stay. This is where the crimes were committed. It is also important in view of the fact that billions of dollars will be spent on commercial child protection in the coming years. If this case, which is so serious, does not lead to a claim for reimbursement from the specific measure, many will wonder what it takes to ensure that commercial persons who break the contract, among other things. by having too few skilled persons, may in fact be directed directly against their claims for reimbursement. So I would like an answer to that question from the Council of State: why is there no need for a refund from this measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1164	Let me go a little bit more in detail to answer why. Bufdir just went into it with the same approach that the representative Moxnes has. There has been a very close dialogue with Nursing South in the time after the girl was placed there, where attention was focused on deliveries and demands. They were assessing whether to claim a refund. It was found that the short term of residence was a factor against resource use in requiring a refund. It was assessed that a claim would not cover what work on the claim would cost the store. I can assure the representative that this was a serious matter, it was assessed refund, but it was found that based on the cost-benefit it would not be useful in this case. After all, the County Report came six months later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1169	It's very interesting and useful. It shows some of the problems of relying on contracts with commercial operators that can set legal counterclaims, train processes and also make it difficult for the public to ensure that the contracts are complied with. We know that two thirds of commercial child protection is run by five large groups. In recent years, they have had an average profitability, i.e. total profitability, of about 22–23 p.p., which is clouded by any other legitimate business in our country. What is our concern is that when profitability comes to the centre, as it obviously does for these companies – many of which are owned by foreign funds – we risk that the consideration of vulnerable child-restraints and young people comes in the background of the owners’ need for earnings. What will the Council of State do in concrete terms when commercial companies have profits due to illegal operation, lack of crew or poor quality of supply? Is the Council of State for the repayment of grants from concrete actions or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1178	That's what we're now going into, one thing is that we're going through the cash flows in this field now, but in the private child protection field, we're also going down to the depths and looking at the accounts. We will come back with an assessment of the disposals that the companies have, to learn more about a field that I believe you have not known well enough. I would argue that such matters have financial consequences for these companies. Buffetat region in the south has not made any new locations with the supplier concerned. It has great economic consequences for them. It's important. It is the responsibility of the public to provide good services to these children, and of course there will be consequences when companies do not deliver the offer they are set to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1186	‘In Rome, the North Guider boat is lost in the Continent of Svalbard, and all the 14 on board were fortunately rescued ashore after what is referred to as a dramatic rescue operation. We see that the fish stocks, and therefore also the fishermen, are still moving further north. How does the government ensure adequate preparedness in our Norwegian sea areas in the north, and which vessels and helicopters were available in the areas around Svalbard in the Christmas season, compared to the rest of the year, to ensure the security and preparedness of the island group?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1193	Let me first explain the responsibilities in terms of preparedness. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is responsible for the rescue and social security services. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for coastal management, including prevention of maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution. It's the main rescue units that run and coordinate rescue operations to rescue people in acute distress. Where appropriate, responsibility shall be assumed by the Coastal Plant, which is the State pollution authority with regard to acute pollution. The Coast Guard is an important resource for rescue operations on Svalbard and has close cooperation with the Employment Officer. The civil servant and the Coast Guard have concluded a cooperation agreement which specifies the guidelines for the support the Coast Guard should be able to provide to the Civilian. In addition, the KV ‘Svalbard’ is approved for interaction with the Sysselmann helicopter, inter alia. so that the helicopters can land on the vessel. It's right, as the representative says, that there's a trend in the north, which the government is following closely. Ice conditions are changing and new areas become available. The increased activity also leads to increased requirements for preparedness. The government has taken this into account. We have strengthened the Man's helicopter service with two large rescue helicopters, extended the sailing period for the Man's vessel "Polar Employment" from six to nine months and increased the Coast Guard's presence in the north. Efforts have been made to introduce the IMO International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Polar Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, a ban on the use of heavy oil around Svalbard and oil protection equipment has been stationed in Longyearbyen. A result of this reinforcement is, among other things: that the crew of the fishing vessel Northguider was rescued in a very efficient manner by the two helicopters of the employed person. I record that the representative uses the term ‘dramatic rescue operation’. It's probably most of the rescue operations in those waters. During the Christmas season, the preparedness around Svalbard was made up of two helicopters from the Employment Man stationed in Longyearbyen, the rescue services helicopters, who often operate around Svalbard and had normal preparedness, and the Defence Force's resources beyond the Coast Guard who were in normal readiness. The ‘Polar employment’ vessel of the employed person operates as mentioned nine months a year and was not present. Coast Guard patrols are based on risk assessments and seasonal variations according to the tasks laid down in the Coast Guard Act. Feasts are normally periods of lower fishing activity and therefore the Coast Guard is less frequent during these periods. The vessel that was in the protection zone of space Christmas carried out control activity in the vicinity of the Bear Island. There was a larger number of fishing vessels, and a risk was identified in the resource take-off, i.e. That there was a lot of small fish. In addition, two major coastguard vessels were operating along the coast of the North Sea and one in the North Sea. The Coast Guard now has a total of 13 vessels in structure, of which eight are seagoing. Of the eight, four are helicopter carrying. One vessel, KV «Svalbard», is classed for ice operations. Having a presence at all times in all areas of activity will require a significantly larger structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1208	First, I would like to say that I do not need training in the responsibilities between the various state councils in terms of preparedness, nor was it the question to the minister. I'll go further on what, for example. KV «Svalbard» did at this time. The question will also be: how long would it take to have KV ‘Svalbard’, for example. patrolled in the protection zone this time? It did not, but my question to the minister should be easy to answer. That's: why wasn't KV "Svalbard" on patrol in the protection zone this Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1215	I answered that. We have an ice-going vessel. It is not possible to keep that vessel sailing all the time. This is also one of the reasons why we have now started to build three new ice-going vessels, so that we can increase our capacity, simply because we see that there is a need for it. The KV ‘Svalbard’ was on shore, the crew had Christmas holidays. When the incident occurred, the trawler lacked communication – it was so far north that they had problems with the communication. They communicated via the Coast Guard's boat that was up there, which was again notified to the Employment Officer. The two helicopters, which were much closer than the coastguard ship – the coastguard ship was and did what they were supposed to do – started a rescue operation, and all personnel were rescued. Then the Coast Guard continued his mission, while the KV “Svalbard” “scrambled” his crew, who interrupted the Christmas holiday and started northwards to assist in the rescue operation up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1220	This is really about economics. That was why KV «Svalbard» was not on patrol during Christmas. Since the new vessels are mentioned, I think it is important to get answers on what measures the government will take to ensure adequate preparedness in all Norwegian sea areas until the new vessels are delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1225	If the representative doesn't want a schooling on standby, she can get a schooling in economics, because that's not what it's all about. It was about a ship that had to land. It was about getting drunk, it was about having crews who are entitled to leave during the holidays. We dispose of the various vessels according to a schedule, and it is the Coast Guard who disposes of them as necessary. It will not be possible to have vessels present anywhere. The Coast Guard's task is territorial control, it's resource control, and being a police officer at sea. That's a problem they're doing very well. Due to the changes in the north, we are building three new ice-going vessels. That makes us better prepared and better covered in the north. But the responsibility for a fishing boat fishing so far north, responsibility for preparedness and security, lies on the shipping company and on the skipper. It is not primarily such that the Community has a responsibility to be present everywhere, not even in the case of Norwegian fishing vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1235	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘With the extraction of wolves to which the government provides, it will not be possible to descend on the stock target for wolves as the Storting has determined. Why does the government choose to exempt Hobby virus from hunting despite the recommendations of predators?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1244	The Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention impose specific legal requirements for the killing of wolves. The sole purpose of the stock is not a sufficient basis for killing. First of all, there must be a strong enough reason for the fall. It is a critically endangered animal species in Norway that is subject to protection and the requirements for killing the law and the Convention are strict. A reason for killing may be that there is a risk of damage to a certain extent, or that strong societal reasons make killing necessary, what the law refers to as ‘public interests of essential importance’. Secondly, the challenge created by the wolves in question is required not to be satisfactorily solved in another way. Thirdly, it is a requirement that the killing does not threaten the survival of the stock. These three conditions are different from the stock target. We're always going to try to be as close to the stock target as possible, but at the same time we have to be within the framework of the law. We cannot take decisions that are fully consistent with the stock target if they conflict with the Nature Diversity Act or the Berne Convention. In case of conflict, the law goes ahead of the stock target. The representative asks why the wolves in the Hobøl Revirate were exempted. After a thorough assessment of the case, the Ministry found that the conditions for killing under the Nature Diversity Act were fulfilled only for the Slagås group. There is a certain degree of conflict related to all three rivals covered by the decisions of predators. However, the conflict with the wolves in the plaintås region is quite different, and the Ministry, after an overall assessment, has found that it is the basis of the law on biodiversity to take out this area. The conflicts associated with this territory have been going on for many years. The raspberry revir is a revir that has been stable over time and has also had a relatively high number of animals in the flock over time. It's also a territory where the predators have repeatedly decided on withdrawals in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1261	I notice that the Council of State and the Government have introduced new interpretations and assessments relating to the Law of Natural Diversity and the Berne Convention depending on how it fits their own purpose, quite independently of the thorough review the Stortinget has actually had both the Berne Convention and the Law of Natural Diversity, and insofar as it is also completely independent of the judgment that has just been passed in the Parliament, which was quite thorough at the fact that the wolf zone or not, it is the object of the population that counts, and what has so far been done is well within the Berne Convention and the Law of Natural Diversity. The reason why I ask about the Hobøl Revir is that it is a small revir, four–five wolves, but it has an inbreeding rate that is twice the average in Norway. Therefore, the predators have a good professional basis to say that the rifle should be taken out. It's not a genetically important individual, it's a big inbreed, and it's a revir that should definitely be taken out. Why isn't the Hobøl Revirt taken out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1268	So far this year, just to clarify it, there are three registered wolves, and it's uncertain whether there are more in Hobøl-reviret. But the background is the same as I referred to, that for the plainås revirion, we have assessed it so that there is a justification in Section 18(c) through the fact that there are social interests «of essential importance». In Hobøl, we believe that this is not the same level of conflict, although there have also been conflicts, and according to Section 18(b) and the potential for damage, there is no basis in the law to take out the Hobøl Revirate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1273	The Hobøl-revirate consisted of five wolves – it now perhaps consists of four, the tispa has wandered out. But to be honest, it's a revolver that consists of wolf that's both half-sibling, aunt and nephew to each other. It's as inbreedy as it's possible to get it, and yet, obviously, the government seems to be so important to take care of these inbred individuals that one should go beyond the decisions of the Stortinge on stock targets. Can the Council of State explain to me what is so genetically important about the wolves in the Hobøl Revirate, which we could unquestionably take out, and which we have to take out if we are to get down to that goal by a broad majority in the Storting has said that one should fall on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1278	Inbreeding is a major problem throughout the Southern Scandinavian population. It's almost like everybody's counting for the Saint. Therefore, it is essential also to put in place a policy to enable genetically important wolves to enter the southern Scandinavian population. In the case that went on the wolf in Stortinget in 2016, it was well, it was talking about that there was a need to have one wolf every five years. So there is nothing different with this flock than the others, and in any case you have to have a permit within the law that we have, whether it is § 18(c) or § 18(b). Ours and my assessment is that in Hobøl there is no basis either under § 18(c) or § 18(b).
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1287	I will ask you the following questions: ‘The size has set a stocking target for wolves of 4-6 young people per year, and the predators have proposed to extract three wolfevir in the wolf zone in order to reach the target population. Why does the Council of State undermine the agreed stockpiles of the Storting by refusing to hunt in Manken and Hobbøreviret?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1296	This question is essentially the same as question 9 from the representative of Marit Arnstad. As mentioned in my reply to the representative Marit Arnstad, the Natural Diversity Act and the Berne Convention impose specific legal requirements on the killing of wolves. The sole purpose of the stock is not a sufficient basis for killing. It is therefore not right for the representative to claim that I am undermining the adopted policy of the Storting. There must be a strong enough reason for the killing. It is a critically endangered animal species in Norway that is subject to protection and the requirements of the law and the Convention for killing are strict. One reason for killing may be that there are strong societal reasons that make killing necessary. We're always going to try to be as close to the stock target as possible, but at the same time we have to be within the framework of the law. However, we cannot take decisions that are fully consistent with the stock target if they conflict with the Nature Diversity Act or the Berne Convention. As mentioned above, after a thorough assessment of the case, the Ministry concluded that the conditions for killing under the Nature Diversity Act were fulfilled only for the Slagås group. There is a certain degree of conflict related to all of these three viruses. However, the conflict with the wolves in the plainås revirium still stands out. The conflict with this territory has been going on for many years. The raspberry revir is a revir that has been stable over time and has also had a relatively high number of animals in the flock over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1307	Yesterday there was a huge popular mobilization in front of Stortinget – according to the police at the top of 10,000 people. There were many who took the trip and said that the border is reached, enough is enough. The main requirement for those who came was to implement the agreed stock targets of the Storting. There were more people in front of the Storting yesterday than the Left has in total membership, so it shows that there was a huge exposure to achieving the agreed stock targets of the Storting. So we know that Ola Elvestuen, when he was a staging representative, wanted a higher stock target than what was adopted by the Stortinget. Then is my question to the Council of State Elvesuen: Does the Council of State think it is a problem not to reach the agreed objectives of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1314	The Elvesu State Council follows up the decisions taken on the Stortinget. It's that we have a stock target that we're dealing with, and then we're dealing with the administration within the framework we have in the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention, which I've explained before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1319	It has to – I hope at least that it does – a strong impression on the Council of State Ola Elvesuen that more people than the total number of members of the Left Party are taking the trip to Oslo, raising a democratic tab, talking to the People's Council that all power should be in this Chamber. A popular mobilization should initially be in the spirit of the Left, and when it's that kind of popular mobilization, it's important to start listening and not just ignoring and reviewing the local decisions. Some of the reason why this is going to be so much trouble is that people have felt overrun time after time. Then is my question to the Council of State: When, after a hard political struggle in 2016, it was decided to have a stock target of 4–6 – a decision that Elvesuen, on his part, disagreed with, because he wanted it to be higher, and we in the Central Party wanted a lower stock target, but it was 4–6 – does the Council of State Elvesuen think it is a problem, or is it entirely okay that we do not come down to the stock target of 4–6 young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1326	I believe that we should follow the decisions made in this Chamber, and that is that we have a law, and we must follow that law. The Nature Diversity Act is based on the Berne Convention. We have to follow that. Then we have a stock target that we have to follow up, within the legal framework that we have. That is the policy I have to pursue. A council must do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1334	‘Today, the holding of dogs and cats in animal pensions is regulated by regulation, but for breeding there is no control. Animal owners can freely breed without knowledge of consequences, and we see rough examples of breeding that lead to great suffering. Also, commercial pet income is not regulated. In July, the Animal Ethics Council warned of cynical ‘wolves’, which then Minister of Agriculture Jon Georg Dale said he would look into. Is this followed up, and what plans does the Council of State have to ensure animal welfare here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1341	As represented by Bastholm, we have no regulation in Norway for breeding dogs and cats. However, there are general provisions on the subject in the Animal Welfare Act. First, the law requires adequate professional competence of keepers and lays down requirements for the keeping and handling of all animals. In addition, the law lays down requirements for functionally healthy animals as a basis for breeding. I am familiar with the fact that the breed for some hundred breeds has nevertheless moved towards more and more extreme variants of building features, which also lead to some major health problems for the animals. It takes time to achieve significant changes in genetic properties. Responsibility for reverseing developments rests not only on the individual breeder. Breeding clubs and puppy buyers who demand dogs with special characteristics also need to be aware of the challenges that follow certain breeds of dogs. Here, both dog clubs and veterinarians and others can provide good information to potential puppy buyers. Among other things, kennel clubs and breed clubs work to promote healthy dog breeding, and most serious breeders practice breeding within the framework of those clubs. That's very good. Some breeders operate on a small scale with only one or a few coals in their private homes. My former State Secretary met with the Kennelklubben, the Veterinary Association and the Food Authority at the end of October to get insights into the challenges of dog breeding and possible solutions. I want to follow this up by assessing whether there is a need for public regulation that can support the measures already taken by the Norsk Kennel Club and the racial clubs. It is important that any public regulation can be enforced and that there is a proper interaction between public and private actors in this area. I am aware that there are also some ‘wolves factories’ where a large number of dogs are reared and kept under conditions that are not in line with good animal welfare and the provisions of the law. This is not acceptable. I would therefore like to assess whether appropriate measures can be taken to enable the Food Safety Authority to catch up with these establishments. It is not illegal to make money to sell puppies in Norway. However, I am not referring to the provisions of tax legislation that restrict taxable activities, as these provisions are outside my remit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1356	Dog breeding is no longer just a hobby in Norway. It's become a store, and for new dog owners, it's completely impossible to know who's serious. It's completely incomprehensible, I think, that the government allows you to earn thousands of dollars to raise puppies for sale without it being regulated or having knowledge requirements. It should be a minimum we as society sets. I believe that the government makes it possible in practice for unprofessional breeders and puppy factories, because you do not give the new dog owners, who are going to get a new family member, an opportunity to distinguish between them, for example. have a licence and knowledge, and those who do not have it and are unprofessional. That means the government is looking to take the worst, those who are not serious, could have been a license that makes those who are going to buy puppies know who is serious and not. There are a lot of people who grow responsible, and who provide good animal welfare for both weeds and puppies. For them it would be a very advantage that this area was more regulated. My question is, what is it that prevents the Council of State from including the breeding of dogs in the regulation for animal pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1363	Thank you very much for the recording, but I would like to point out that on both the websites of the Danish Food Agency and Norwegian Kennel Club there is very good information for those who want to buy a dog. The dog law is something the government will look at. Then, of course, I will also include the recordings that the representative of Bastholm now has. But I would like to point out that we already have a law where there are very clear requirements, and the Food Safety Authority has strengthened the possibility of, among other things. relocating animals. You have more supervision, and it is also easier to give notice to the Food Safety Authority when you discover something that is not the way it should be. According to the Animal Welfare Act, everyone should notify if they see conditions where animals are suffering and are not doing well. There's already a lot of things in place. But it must be that if you are to do a part of what the representative Mr. Bastholm says, you must also be able to follow it up in a good way and ensure that you are well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1370	I feel absolutely sure that if you had also included the breeding of dogs and cats in the prescription, it would have been completely possible to regulate it and follow it up from the authority, as you do with animal pensions. This is really about whether to consider it an industry when putting two to three coals on a tispe every year, or whether to pretend that it is still just a hobby. Of course, it is also an interest, but it is also a great responsibility – much greater than the animal owners have in general. Today's system, where the industry itself takes responsibility for regulation on a voluntary basis – the Council of State refers here to the Norsk Kennel Club – is well and good, but has proved not to work on its own. In the same period as NKK has worked on this theme, there has also been an increase in what can be called puppy factories in Norway, i.e. unprofessional breeders. It is quite obvious to me that there is a need for regulation here, not a huge and violent law, but this needs to get into regulated forms, so that new animal owners can feel safe about who are serious breeders and not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1375	I would like to point out again that I hear what the representative Bastholm says, but there are some challenges in detailing breeding on dogs – as enforcement. Where appropriate, to whom is the decision to be addressed? Which instruments should be used? For example: order an unfortunate puppy buyer to kill his dog because the breeder has bred dogs with defects? Another option could be to impose requirements on racial clubs and their breeding strategies. A requirement may be laid down for all breed clubs to have their own breeding strategy. Most clubs have already developed a strategy or are developing one. A public requirement will, of course, make the further follow-up under the direction of the dog environment more binding. We're looking at this, and I'm going to bring up what the representative's taking up. But as I said instead, there are differences. There are some people who drive big, and there are some who might have one or two puppy coals. It's about how to deal with it. The store has asked us to take a closer look at the dog law, and I will include the recordings that the representative has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1382	Case No. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-09.ana.ud524e1396	There is no record available. So the map is ready for today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
