ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e52	The representatives Tellef Inge Mørland, Trond Helleland, Eirik Sivertsen, Une Bastholm and Ole André Myhrvold, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two applications for leave are made from the Workers' Party's grossing-up group: for the representative of Ingarill Olsen, on sick leave from 16 December until further notice, for the representative, Eirik Sivertsen, on leave of 16 and 17 December, to participate in the Council of Europe meeting in Rovaniemi, Finland, in its capacity as Head of the Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation On a proposal from the President, it was decided: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm 16 December and until further notice For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 16-17. December
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e109	At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e139	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e150	Before I start with the tax debate, today from this pulpit I will draw attention to the Moor and the Romsdal and Sunnmaere. There is today a war hero and veteran Ragnar Ulstein bicast at the expense of the state, with His Royal Highness The Crown Prince, the Minister of Defense and the Chief of Defense present. I would like to thank Ragnar Ulstein for the efforts he has made for Norway, both during the war as a strong participant in the movement of resistance, after the war as one of our most capable men in uniform, and then as an important witness to the time that spread knowledge and insight into the years of war. My warmest thoughts go to family, friends and other relatives. So over to next year's tax bill. I would like to thank the Financial Committee for its good cooperation. I'm glad we're now a majority government. I believe that both the position and the opposition are enjoying a somewhat more liberal era until both the financial debate and the tax debate. At the same time, I would like to thank the Committee Secretariat, which always does an excellent job. With next year's budget, this government has reduced taxes and charges in this country by 25.5 billion. kr since accession in 2013. In my opinion, the state should not take in more money from ordinary people and businesses until all other funds are exhausted, and there is some of the main difference we see in this room today. The left-hand side first refers to the means that I think must come last, namely tax increases. There are no reforms, no improvements in efficiency, no new ways of thinking and at least no cuts or changes where one is given priority over the other. This government is working in each budget to turn each stone to create more room for action in the budgets without increasing taxes. The railway reform is the last good, concrete example. The state now goes from paying to getting paid for railway operations. Making the tax collectors state is another measure, which will save us almost 400 million. kr in the year when the measure has been fully implemented. So let me briefly go into parts of the setting. This government is delivering on climate. Now we see that the formidable change in new car sales is holding. Nearly half of all cars sold are zero-emission vehicles, which means that the government's tax reliefs work. We follow up on the government platform by introducing emission pricing where it hasn't been before. This means that for some there will be a new fee, but government policy in this area is predictable. We have to go through the green shift, and then emissions have to be covered with a cost. The majority propose that the imposition of user charges on all biofuels be postponed to summer, while increasing the turnover requirement so that no less biofuels are traded than the actual turnover of the previous year. It gives business and public society better time to prepare, and you can engage in a close dialogue with the government on how to get into port with our common goal. The Committee unanimously endorses the Government's proposal to exempt goods for charitable purposes from excise duty. We decide today that this will be able to take effect from 1 December of this year, which may mean a more joyful Christmas for many. It is not true that producers of different goods choose to destroy goods rather than give them away to those who have the least. The Committee also takes up its position on the proposal of the Committee on Taxes on Powers. The majority view is that the Stortinget has not yet got a case to deal with, and we will therefore await the government's proposals. But what we have said in the vote is that the sample proposal has created uncertainty in the industry, and that we expect the government to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible after the consultation deadline. But the matter is being discussed by the government, and when I see that the minority in the committee too will have assessed parts of the hydropower tax, it seems to me that a unanimous House expects the government to come back with a case to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e174	Both industry and the public sector need long-term and robust framework conditions. The proposal of the Kraft Tax Committee on the scrapping of the concession arrangements, the reduction of the tax on property and the rent on land for small-scale power has caused great concern, which the representative Wang Soleim was also involved in his contribution. It has our massive resistance. In 2017, there was a merger about the concession arrangements and that the property tax was to be fixed on water power. Proposals from the VAT selection and also the proposal for basic interest on aquaculture were immediately scrapped by both large-scale representatives and members of the government. Then there is all cause for concern, and it sounds quite hollow when one cannot even agree to a comment that previous decisions are firm, but suddenly have to wait for a hearing. Can the representative, however, provide a guarantee that the industry will be listened to and that the concession scheme, the property tax and the rent on the land will be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e183	As I said in my post, this case is for government treatment. We clearly see that many of the proposals that have been promoted have created uncertainty in the industry. Therefore, we ask the government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible. I also see that the minority wants to see further on the property tax scheme. That means that if you're going to look at something further, the government has to come back to Stortinget with something. In my opinion, Ergo is the one-sided big thing that wants the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal. So it's like we're looking at this for a reason. Many people believe that the sample has not responded to the task they have been given. The more important it is that you use the consultation time we have, just to make sense of what was going to be there. The aim of continuing to develop more socio-economically viable hydropower plants is, of course, to do so. After all, the goal of reinvesting where it is profitable remains. Ergo becomes the time we have now, more important in hearing from everyone what would rather stand there if you disagree with what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e192	I understand that one of them has been in trouble in this matter, so I am not going to follow her any more. In the past, the right has claimed that municipal self-government has been close to their hearts. The only source of income left by the municipalities themselves is the property tax. The small space for action that the municipalities had is restricted, among other things. at a reduced maximum rate. The government's lack of compensation for the loss of the so-called machine tax is another example. And the Right can't decide if the property tax should be fixed by the force of water, which they meant in 2017. What was supposed to be full compensation for the municipalities on the machine tax was 18 pst. compensation for some of the industrial municipalities, according to KS figures. In total, this is a serious attack on local self-government. What does Right now owe it to local self-government for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e201	We are not opponents of local self-government in the municipalities. On the contrary, we believe that municipalities should have greater opportunities to do exactly what they want. When we have seen that the municipal structure promoted by this government is even better than what the red-greens promoted in their years, it means that the municipalities have more freedom to decide exactly what they want. Next year's municipal plan will increase free income by 1.3 billion. kr that the municipalities may choose to use for what they want. Then it's absolutely right that we have a policy where we want to tighten up the ability of municipalities to tax ordinary people's homes as a property tax item. We also tighten the possibilities for municipalities to levy taxes on what ordinary companies have for having machines in their business. I think this is a tremendous relief for business. So when you have machines that are standing and walking and that create values, you get a tax on it. I think that is wrong, and fortunately, the business community fully agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e208	Municipal tax collection has been effective. They have now also had the opportunity to take into account particularly self-employed workers who may face liquidity challenges in part of the year. It has given a very high degree of recovery, at the very top, while giving them the opportunity to take some human consideration in a year. The Progress Party and the Right in today's government have a main project, and that is centralisation. From 227 to 56 tax offices – classical centralisation. They've tried the same thing in Denmark. One saw in Denmark that it was possible to collect less tax, and that the state lost massive, large amounts, on it. We have a question for Wang Soleim, because there are many who are now being affected by this violent centralization reform, and who get very long route: will the government parties be willing to look at flexible arrangements for those who get an unreasonable long route after this conversion that is now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e217	Item No 1: I thought the Center Party was too cut in the bureaucracy. This is cut in red tape, and it is an improvement in efficiency. You've said it in this room that you're too, but you're exactly the opposite in this case. A rapporteur's appeal has been received here in Stortinget. What's interesting about it is that almost half of the rapporteurs who have signed have already merged their tax office with the tax office in their neighbouring municipality. And what's the reason for that, you can just wonder, but I might think that efficiency is part of it. Now that this is being made public, it gives the representative Battle Violence Vedum the opportunity to propose in this room that all municipalities should have such a tax collection office. So we have 426 municipalities, we have 227 offices, and now that the state has to govern it, it's just for the representative to put in a proposal and money to set up a new office in every municipality we have in Norway, if the representative wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e226	Government batches have lifted the ban on palm oil-based biofuels in public procurement. They have launched their own action against palm oil-based biofuels, namely the user tax on biofuels in addition to the placing on the market requirement and the batches shall increase the placing on the market requirement – without imposing any requirement for biofuels to be used based on palm oil. Government parties may be suspected of being very concerned about making up their own covetous climate policy, so that it will look as if emissions are falling into Norwegian accounts, while, in reality, it is increasing globally. SV has proposed the introduction of a compensation scheme for the reimbursement of kroner for those who can demonstrate that they do not use palm oil, which would have just provided for emission reductions both nationally and globally. Why do the government parties not want to apply such a scheme instead of risking Norwegian drivers driving around with orangutans on the tank?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e234	It would have been interesting to have an orangutan on your mind! But it is – that is quite right – that we are postponing the introduction of a full tax on all biofuels until the summer while at the same time asking for an increase in the turnover requirement, so that it does not go below the turnover we had the year before. What is difficult to make a sharp distinction between palm oil or what has a high risk of deforestation and a low risk of deforestation is that we have some commercial obligations that we will then be in conflict with. That is why we are now also looking at the process that the EU is running, precisely to distinguish between these two types. We will then be able to stand in a common bloc to create a common European policy. The government is now going to work on this until the summer. Then you will come back at both the level to which you want to place the turnover requirement and, if necessary, other questions, such as: the question that the representative Kaski raises, and you can then look back when Stortinget gets a case before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e248	The working party's alternative budget is for a more fair society with less differences, a more climate-friendly society and where more people have the opportunity to get to work. Small economic and social differences increase trust between social and cross-urban levels and give the community more use to well-being and investment. Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have been responsible for seven state budgets. The sum of their policies has made it harder for ordinary people to live their lives. They've given tax credits to those on the top and cut for weak groups. Centralization has hit us hard in the districts. It is not possible to correct all non-social cuts and errors in only one alternative budget. The SSB notes in a recent report that the tax system is less complex now than when the government took over Solberg in 2013. The economic differences between people are increasing, both the differences in income and the differences in wealth. This year, the Labour Party is giving more to ordinary families in one budget than the government has done in seven years. According to the government's own figures, a normal family received $9,000 more to route because the Solberg government took over. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that a normal family would receive NOK 3000 less if one included tax incentives because they are trade-organised or commute from time to time. Then be sure to spend $6,000. Only in this year's budget would the same family receive DKK 9500 more with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. There is no free SFO for the first class, spectacle support or dental regulation included. Increased economic differences are a social problem, there is every reason to take matters seriously. Also the NHO, as the government often uses as a truth witness, points out that they are concerned about developments with increasing differences and falling trust. Those who have the strongest shoulders have to bear the biggest weights. This must also be the case in fiscal policy. The work party provides tax relief for those who need it, and tax relief for those who tolerate it. That's why we have a reclaimed tax bill where anyone who charges 750,000 kroner or less will get less tax, and then those who think more have to contribute more. About 60 pst. of the private property in 2016 was owned by the 10 pst. with highest wealth. In other words, if this cookie is going to be divided by ten, then a slice of six pies. The fortunes of the richest growth. They're growing faster. The return is like the snowball starting to roll. With interest rates he grows faster and faster. In addition, concentration of wealth leads to concentration of power. There have been many small cuts from the government of Solberg, among others. for commuters. Why this eagerness after the commuters have to take more and more of the commuting costs themselves? The value of the commuting deduction has been gradually reduced, and if one has to bend away, it has to keep up with commuting for two years. The fact that the government is so opposed to the organized working life is also difficult to swallow. The distance between rhetoric and reality is increasing with the government of Solberg. Municipalities and county councils throughout the country are struggling to get their budgets in boxes. It is because they have both lost income and have too little in transfers, but the answer to the government is to continue to restrict the small space of action that the municipalities have with the property tax. This also applies to the host municipalities, which today could have a clarification of the most important incomes, but which must postpone investment and live in uncertainty, pending the government party's becoming a few and decide whether they believe it to be the same as in 2017. Some of the results of changes in the taxation of in-kind benefits have been corrected, but there is still a free card for pensioners from the transport sector. This gives them a new opportunity to correct today by supporting the Workers' Party's proposal to reintroduce tax exemptions for pensioners' free cards. I take up the proposals of which the Labour Party is part. The working party will support the proposal No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e273	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be too much line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e280	This is the third budget I agree to deal with, and I've noticed several times that the Workers' Party seems to have to make quite a lot of creative shuffling to get its budget to go up. Over the previous years, it has been speeding up the winding-up of the 350-kroner limit for many months to bring the budget up. It's going to be okay, it's at least the Labour Party's policy, but in this budget, I think the party has gone one step further on the creative plan: now they even use the money earned by actions they say outside they're against. So when the representative spends $1.7 billion. kr of an ABE reform they are against, several tens of millions of a government-enforcement of tax collectors they are against, and in addition, using what we take on fewer postal transport days, which they have also been against – why could not only the representative increase taxes a little more to finance everything outside say you are against?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e285	We're too fixed in the public sector, and we think that people should get fixed, all settings instead of a tenant consulting IT services or training. It is much better that they have the training themselves and that they learn it for themselves. When it comes to the 350-kroner rule, he was signed in 2018 by the Stortinget, so one has had plenty of time to pre-empt him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e292	The representative commented on the consultant's cut, which I wasn't interested in, but if the representative has time in his next answer, I would like to have an answer as to why one goes out so hard towards one of the biggest savings they're making, which they're opposed to, namely, the ABE reform, of $1.7 billion. kr. You think it's wrong, but you want to spend the money you get from it. Question number two: The Labour Party has said a lot about different samples that have recently arrived, but they have not submitted any comments on the Maritime Tax Committee. So an open question to the representative is: What does the Labour Party think about the Maritime Tax Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e299	The ABE reform doesn't matter how much savings you have taken or how much you don't. As I said, when it comes to consulting, we think that one should have a whole set of options on its own companies, because then a few trainings themselves, and one will learn what's going to happen in the future. The marine tax selection has not come to Stortinget, as far as I have understood. We've been out thinking about it, but it's not yet finished in the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e306	My question goes in the same direction, because the mantra of the Workers' Party and Heggo here today, and in the autumn, in the debate related to their alternative state budget, has been that you can't do everything in one year. It's been the answer when we've asked why they haven't put in the money to reverse the ABE reform when they say they're against the ABE reform, and why they're using the whole gain from reduced number of days of mail delivery when they say they're reduced the number of days of mail delivery. The working party increases the taxes and charges by almost 10 billion. kr in its alternative state budget. This is money that is tied up to beautiful promises and views that have duration far beyond the one year, namely next year. So you can't spend this money again, on new measures, so the question to Hegø is, how much does the tax have to increase if all of the Workers' Party's promises are to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e313	It's just to check out in our alternative budget. There's a way we've arranged both income and expenses. So it's referred to as saying that we can't fix everything right away. In fact, Sanner also said this when they took over the government – that it is not possible to correct everything immediately. And for once I actually agreed with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e320	There have been three difficult lines, so I'll make it a little bit simpler. I note that the Workers' Party may have begun to understand that too much increase in taxes and taxes will bind private businesses and put chains in the wheels of the green shift. Therefore, the party is actually closer to the government parties than to its opinion in the Green, SV and Red Environmental Party in terms of taxes and taxes, because we see that the Green Party will increase taxes and taxes by 22 billion. kr, SV by 30 br. kr and Rødt by 40 br. kr. Does the representative realize that the Workers' Party would actually have more impact – and the greatest impact – on its own tax regime on the blue-green side with the government, and not with the Socialists on the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e330	This government is taking Norway in the wrong direction. We don't want the differences to increase, and they just do that with the government tax arrangement. That's why we're against it. That's why we're giving taxes to anyone who thinks $750,000 or less, and then those who care more have to pay more. We would never get through to that in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e335	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e340	Today we are going to deal with taxes and taxes for 2020. The representatives of the red-green parties are going to howl about tax havens to the rich and nothing to the common people. But that's not true of reality. The Progress Party has been very concerned about making sure and working – every day – to get lower taxes and taxes that mean something in the everyday lives of ordinary people. That is why we have removed the inheritance tax, or the death tax as it really is. We're now changing the NRK license as it has been, and making it now funded by the tax bill. This means that, among other things: Lonely comes out much better, and the minimum pensioners don't pay anything. That's good, because some of them have little and have a tough everyday life to get the money to stretch to. In addition, this change makes you cut into bureaucracy. You no longer need the licensing department for collection. In addition, the NRK has been required to operate better. The progress party is very busy with the drivers. We're very happy that the drivers are now getting reduced their fees, and then it's okay to keep in mind that we're now taking in 20 billion. less in car-related charges. Yeah, this is something that really matters to people all over the country. The party of progress in government continues to fight hard so that the toll costs for ordinary people go down. Now the tolls were cut by 1 400 million. kr per year. In addition, there will be funds to cut urban areas. It means something to ordinary people. I even got the great pleasure of being with and traveling around the country, tearing toll stations and reducing fares, and this is definitely something that matters in everyday life to people. In addition, from the government budget, there is a proposal to reduce the maximum rate rate for what municipalities can charge for property taxes to 5 per million in 2020, and it is indicated that it will decrease to 4 per million in 2021. This grip shows that the Progress Party in the government allows citizens to receive lower taxes and taxes in their everyday lives. Then I record that part of the parties that are here today, that fight and say they are concerned that ordinary people will get lower taxes and taxes, are the parties that locally like to increase property taxes. It affects everyone, including many of those who have a dwelling, but who struggle to make the economy go up in their everyday lives. The tall and dark center part should perhaps chop itself down a couple of heels. In fact, you take 10 billion. NOK less now in fees than when the Senterpartiet was in government. The red-green parties and their proposals have strong tax increases for business. It's where you always talk about the riches that get the most, and it goes beyond ordinary people. A short time ago, I was in a company in Sogn and Fjordane and met ordinary people who run a business, and who don't necessarily have a lot of money on book, but have values in the building and have many employees in a small building, which means that it's one of the big private businesses there. Then we have parties in this hall that have one goal: to make sure that these pay more in taxes on wealth. With a small profit now, they are able to pay property taxes and property taxes, but with e.g. The red's proposal or the SV's proposal may quickly become a deficit. It means something, and it can go beyond workplaces. The worst thing about the wealth tax debate and the worst about what the parties want is that this affects Norwegian ownership. I thought the Center Party thought it was good that we have Norwegian owners who are busy having their company in Norway. But obviously, it's not like that. The Rema 1000 advertisement is a good example of what this is like when the boy says "Doffen has daua" - the goldfish. But if the Red or the SV, or maybe the other red-green parties, would get an impact on their budget, it's not the Doffen, but the company that has the Daua. It'll be very bad, because we need businesses. We need businesses across the country. The Progress Party is therefore concerned that we should have lower taxes on wealth, precisely because it is about entrepreneurs and businesses trying to create values every day, which burn for their community and do not want to fly out. But we have red-green parties at any time want the company's owners to fly out, because then you don't have to pay a special tax that Norwegian companies and Norwegian company owners have to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e359	This debate will continue in the turn of the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e364	I understand that the representative Hoksrud took the invitation from Sverre Myrli yesterday to light up a little more on the platform. We have come to understand that the representative Hoksrud is involved with the drivers, and we received a report from the OECD on the Norwegian economy last week. They pointed to two things that affect the drivers. One is that the tax exemptions there has been a broad consensus here in the hall in the case of electric cars are a subsidy of 0.1 p.p. of mainland GDP – we cannot continue to do that, says the OECD. We also know, for example. the derogation from VAT expires next year. The second is that they are proposing a revision of the tolling system. Then the representative Hoksrud will have the opportunity to tear the bombs and replace them with a road pricing system. What do the Government Party think about these issues when it comes to developing a new car tax system for both electric cars and fossil cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e371	These were good questions that I am very happy to get. First of all, the Progress Party is committed to reducing taxes and taxes and it seems that not having car charges is a good thing – that it will be perfect. And then we realize that car charges are part of what finances the whole system. But the starting point for the Progress Party is that we want to reduce them. Then the difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party is that we don't want to put taximeters in the car and make sure it starts rolling. Then we know how the Workers' Party's eagerness for more taxes and taxes from ordinary people probably means that instead of having tolls, you have someone who actually fights every single day to reduce and manage to get through to reduce by 1,400 million. kr a year, we get a party that just makes sure that this taximeter goes even faster, rolls even faster, to bring in more in hidden taxes from the drivers in this country. It is not a good solution, it seems, the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e376	I think we all agree – also the Progress Party, at least the Minister of Finance is, because she is developing a new charging system for cars, and I guess it does not end up with zero charges. The question then is: how does the representative Hoksrud – or the Progress Party, which he represents – view such a charging system? The government, of which the Progress Party is part, has now submitted a proposal for an increased CO 2 tax, also a CO 2 tax on companies that have so far released it. The argument is that the polluter has to pay. Does the representative of Hoksrud mean that it should not apply to the car? There is no doubt that, for example: the user charge also wears an electric car on the road. How does the representative Hoksrud think that the new system should be? It is not enough to say that you are very much to have the drivers drop charges, because they are not going to drop charges, so this government is going to make sure they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e387	That's funny, because I thought the representative knew what the Progress Party means. We want to have low charges in the case of a car and that which is car-related, and that is why we have had an impact on the government. I think it's fantastic to know that we're taking in 20 billion. kr less in car fees than what we did when Svein Roald Hansen's party was in government. We have agreed on what has been agreed with regard to the electric car, that there are no charges now, and then, of course, the government will have to come back to what it believes that this charging system should be in the future. It comes with it, and then the Progress Party will fight for its primary position and get the most impact for them in connection with the job done by the government. I think it's been really great. Now we've had an impact on the WLTP bit and the conversion there won't increase the revenue. I am very glad that we have a finance minister and a government that is busy with the drivers, and that makes sure that the drivers pay much less now than they did when the red-green parties crashed this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e392	Some of the things that have amazed me the most after the Progress Party got government power is how petty you are. Tax should be introduced in new areas and try to make all possible adaptations completely impossible. If you, for example, I work as a car seller and want to repair the car at the car repair shop that is connected to the same car shop, it has almost been made impossible after the change in taxes on benefits in kind, which the current government has implemented. Ask anyone who works in a car shop in Norway: Do they dare to repair their car any longer with a discount at the same car repair shop? The answer is no. It is petty that it is not possible for those who work in a car repair shop to repair their car there. It was because one wanted to tighten the rules on benefits in kind. Bane NOR has now sent out a letter to all his former employees, pensioners and widowers after former employees, saying that the arrangement for them to have a physical free card must be removed and that a more bureaucratic system must be introduced. Does Bård Hoksrud think it's a step forward or a step backwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e399	Bård Hoksrud is concerned that we should have the lowest possible tax burden and that we should have good arrangements. This was a clean-up in what was, and that's how pensioners like, for example. has and has had gifts and arrangements, shall continue to have them in respect of a tax-free staff discount. There are some limits set, but there are also some of these that have increased, among other things. the gift limit in working conditions increased from NOK 1000 to NOK 2000. So there's also made changes that have been positive for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e404	Housing policy is over-ripe for change, and we have to make it easier for more people to buy their own home and stop speculation at people's homes. Therefore, SV will reintroduce an advantage tax on dwellings of more than 2 million. kr, we want to wind up the BSU system, which works best for those who have the best chance of owning a home from before, and we want to escalate the document fee by a total of 4 billion. kr, which gives a total tax cut on the dwelling. The document fee is distorted, it takes particularly young people in the start-up phase between 20 and 40 years of age and those who move most often. It's over 9 billion. kr in income from the document fee. My question to the representative Hoksrud is: Why is the Progress Party for this VAT on housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e412	This is funny. The progress party is not necessarily concerned about it, but when you sit in government, you actually find good solutions and good compromises together. The funny thing is that SV is one of the parties that likes to charge more taxes and taxes to ordinary people, for example. property tax: yesterday, SV sat in my home local government and voted in favour of more property tax for ordinary people, which affects ordinary people who struggle to make everyday life go up and get the money to cover what they are going to cover. So SV's very nice review and consideration here is at least not like that when you see what SV does locally. It doesn't help to pretend that you're a little bit here to make it a little bit easier for ordinary people, if you're a lot harder to make it even harder out there, and you want to give freedom to the municipalities just to skin their inhabitants -- excuse me, President: can take even more in property taxes from the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e419	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e424	It's good that the president is a little rusty now in pre-Christmas, so we can have some fresh word changes. I will start by commenting on what has been the most important event in European policy for the last day, and that is what has happened in the United Kingdom. I am not going to have a party political position on which parties are going to go forward or back in a British election, but it will be of great importance to Norway that it now seems that we are getting a sister parliament that is not an EU member. It gives us great opportunities and great challenges, and we are congratulated on one of the world's oldest democracies that they are able to solve political challenges with elections and democracy – the best of all instruments. So for all of us who are interested in European politics, there have been exciting times, and it's just to congratulate the British people and those who have won the election. Then I will go to one of the issues that we have to deal with today, and that is the centralization of tax collection. If you look at the history of tax collection, there's been a discussion about who's going to rule, and about closeness to the inhabitants. I see we have a mountain representative here. If you read the history of tax collection, for example. from Bergen, there have been lots of discussions about who is going to charge taxes. And if you see the 19th-century debate in Bergen on tax collection, it was about having local ombudsmen who knew local conditions, and that there was a democratic anchoring in urban citizenship. In Norway, we have had a tradition of having a tax levied that knows local circumstances. What's been nice about local tax collection is that knowing local conditions has made it very effective. It hasn't been a bad thing to know how, for example. The town of Bergen works, or you know how the municipality of Stange works – that you know the different actors in Bergen or know the different actors in Stange, where I live. This has been an advantage, because it can be seen that the municipal tax collection has been more effective than the government. That's what's so wonderful when the Right Party and the Advance Party are so excited about this, because you have to look at the history of the different floors that have collected taxes. The one that has been closest has been the most effective, not the most inefficient. There are not so many people here who have been self-employed, but all of us who are self-employed are charged advance tax – at least I know that the mountain representative sitting here has experienced it. And when you're doing business, there may be times of the year when you have bigger liquidity challenges. Then it's a huge advantage that you have local tax collection, where you can call the local tax collector and say: now it's liquidity very demanding in my business, in my business, is it possible to postpone that payment? And then the tradition has been, we know that you're going to pay, we're giving you some flexibility now. The government thing that is happening here is a red tape, where you remove the tax collector further away from people, where it becomes more difficult to make local adjustments. And that's what Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg have boasted – it's going to be more standardised, it's going to be more so-called non-discrimination. But more equal treatment is in practice bureaucratic. When you see the difference between the government tax collection and the municipal tax collection, the municipal tax collection has been the best, not the worst. But the government’s dream is — something so enormous — that Norway should be centralised. Even on the basis of the experience gained in Denmark, where the tax intake has fallen dramatically following the implementation of a similar reform, it will cost what it will cost. And that's classic centralization when it comes to -- how many were we had -- 227 local tax collectors to 56. There can be no more centralization than that. Then the Right Representative Wang Soleim – I don't know how much he's been doing self-employment for himself – came and ridiculed this discussion. I wonder how much he has discussed this with his constituents in More and Romesdal, whether they think it's a good idea or a bad idea. I wonder how much he has discussed with his constituents in More and Romesdal – Oskar Sylte – when a charging policy has been pursued that has hit Norwegian business as powerfully as it has done. I don't think it has any reverberations locally, except in the rhetorical dictionary of Young Right. That's what's part of the problem here; one forgets to see reality, meet those who are being affected, and say, Is this a step forward or a step backwards? This is a centralizing retreat that creates more bureaucracy, less flexibility and more rigidity. And it is sad that the Left and Christian People's Party, which has managed to stand up to this red tape reform for two rounds – at least one round in 2015, where Siv Jensen drove it vigorously – has now given in to the government staffing of the Ministry of Finance, for that is what it is; this proposal has been with officials over time. We tried under the red-green government, we stood up for popular Norway, but now it's the officials who win. It's a retreat, not a progress. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e443	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e450	If the centre party is so concerned about border trade, why do they increase taxes on tobacco and alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e455	We have greatly reduced the total charges on goods subject to border trade. With regard to tobacco and alcohol, we've increased the fees a little bit. For example, for wine there will be a few dollars more expensive per wine bottle. It is from a health assessment that we have taken the diet-benefit assessment. We have greatly reduced border charges. Today’s government has done more stunts — not on alcoholic beverages — but on the sugar levy and other measures, which have stimulated border trade. We have had a careful adjustment of the alcohol charges, but not a large one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e460	It's interesting that the Center Party later on is like you're trying to reduce fees on something, and then you're going to increase them on something else. In reality, it would have been alcohol and tobacco co-bonanza at the Swedish border if the Senterpartie had been able to see through to the tax and tax increases on alcohol and tobacco. So it's funny, because it looks like you're going to take down the fees on sugar and shower, that Kjersti Toppe has been standing in this room and several times said that she's very busy increasing the fees on just what the Center Party wants to reduce. That doesn't make any sense. Social violence Vedum wants to go back to where you were, but it was border trade before doing this, and it's going to be even more border trade if the Senter party is to make sure that some of the people really travel across borders to buy, alcohol and tobacco, are even more expensive here being measured against Sweden. So how does this relate, Battle Force Vedum?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e467	In the Central Party's alternative state budget, we reduce charges for non-alcoholic beverages, for example. Pepsi Max, of whom I know that the representative Hoksrud is a great consumer. So he should be one of the biggest winners in our budget line, because we're proposing a powerful reduction of Pepsi Max. The reason we take that kind of grip is that we see that the tax policy has hit the Norwegian food industry very hard. Look at Oskar Sylte, as I was in the place, and Mack, I was in Tromsø yesterday, and Gran's shower factory, which is in the representative's home state, Telemark – no, it was in the neighbouring district of Vestfold, now it's Vestfold and Telemark. There's so much confusion after these contractions -- it's not a progress, it's a step back, you ask me. But so many measures have been taken that have affected the Norwegian food industry, so we want the fees down. So our total fee plan is 3.5 billion. kr lower than the government's fee scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e472	The representative Battle Violence Vedum has been out on Husøy on Senja – a wonderful community, I have been and visited it myself. There's a very nice company, the brothers Karlsen, who are run by the sisters Karlsen, it's Rita and Randi who run it. They're trading for about 1 billion. kr per year and has recently invested 100 million. kr in its holding. That's about. 300 B.C.E. kr we export for in Norway. A quarter of those who work in business work in export industries. Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will remove us from the EEA agreement overnight through this budget that they have submitted. What will Schlagsvold Vedum say to the sisters Karlsen in the company Brethren Karlsen – and not just to those who live on Husøy, but to all businesses in the districts? It is the Central Party with its policies that are going to face the centralisation and regionalisation of the times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e479	Sometimes I think you're dreaming about what's in the alternative budgets of other parties. It does not say that we will cancel the EEA agreement overnight in the State budget, nor in any alternative state budget. What it says is that we do not want uncritically to cash into the EU bureaucracy. It's not so tabloid, but that's what's supposed to be, because we think there's too much money spent on the EEA, and we want to approach what was red-green level. Then it was at the base of 2 billion. kr. We think it was high enough, so that's why we cut a part of the EEA transfer. And so did the government itself last year, because you saw that some of those projects weren't good enough, they didn't have enough quality, and you cut 500 million. kr in the revised national budget. We've cut a little bit more now in our alternative state budget because we've challenged the government if they have good projects in order. The answer to that was that they didn't, and then we think it's a good idea – in respect of our taxes – not to spend as much money on the EEA quota as the Left, Right and Advance Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e484	There are large and small issues, but the climate problem knows no borders. For this reason, it is important for the Christian People's Party to ensure — as far as is advisable — that the growth in the use of biofuels should not mean any more pressure on the deforestation of rainforest. How does the proposal of the Centre address deforestation risks and provide an incentive for providers to commit to environmental requirements for the biofuels that are being translated outside the translation requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e492	Fortunately, there has been a very big change in the composition of biofuels. It's going massively in the right direction, and we're about to break through. That's why the government is now imposing a full tax on biofuels, so unwise. The calculations made show that it will increase national CO 2 emissions by 700000 tonnes. If you're going to compare it to something, it's approx. the same emissions as one from all traffic in Oslo. So it's a massive operation to increase Norwegian CO 2 emissions as the government does. That the Christian People's Party thinks it's a good thing, I think it's amazing, because it's a very bad case that first affects the climate, and which, second, affects the ability to build up Norwegian industry based on a renewable raw material, just the forest. That is why we are opposed to the charging shop, and we believe it is wise to reduce Norwegian CO 2 emissions while creating jobs and values in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e511	Politics is wild," said Olof Palme. SV will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the economic differences in Norway. That is the goal of our conversion to a red-green tax system. With the blue-blue tax system, it's the wealthiest in society that's left with ever more. The thousands of people with the highest wealth have over 1 million. kr in tax cuts each. They've got over 1 billion in total. kr on sharing. 1 billion. kr would have meant a lot to the country's hospital, to the municipalities, for the young people who have been cut off in redundancy payments. Instead of doing tasks together and strengthening our well-being, the right-hand government prioritises tax cuts for the few. With the right-hand government, the tax system has become less redistributive. Economic differences in Norway are increasing. The richest are pulling away. SV will go in the opposite direction. We want to use the tax system to reduce differences, increase value creation and cut emissions. In the SV's alternative budget, we propose to lower taxes on labour while increasing taxes on wealth, inheritance and property. We increase environmental taxes and make it more expensive to pollute while proposing tax deductions for energy efficiency improvement. Most people go in plus with these suggestions. They are left with more in dollars and ears and more well-being than with the government budget, while those with the highest income and wealth have to contribute more. It's a conversion for the many, not for the few. It's more important to work than to earn a living. We know that the number of heirs is increasing among the richest in Norway. Inheritance is a great source of inequality. Therefore, the inheritance tax should be reintroduced using a new and more redistributive model. Tax-free inheritance increases the differences in Norway, and so does the current tax system for housing, which is designed to be the most expensive housing with the highest tax advantages. With the BSU, it's those who already have the best chance of buying and owning their own home, who get the biggest benefit. There is a broad consensus among economists that housing taxes are mature for change, and yet there is a paralysing anxiety about housing policy in this room. We want to do something about that in SV. Welfare schemes are under pressure from global tax competition. The digital economy and multinational companies are breaking the framework of the international tax system. SV has several times proposed – and we are going to propose it again – national measures to achieve fairer and more effective taxation of giant companies. It has to end that companies like Facebook and Ikea can move large values out of Norway. There is no greater challenge than the climate crisis. Cutting emissions and switching Norway must be the job number one for all of us here in the hall. By 2030 we will need more than half of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It's a huge problem, where all the instruments have to be used. Environmental taxes are one of the means by which we need to reduce emissions and pay for pollution damage. Despite the fact that it is easy to resort to cheap resistance to environmental taxes, environmental taxes in Norway have thus been a success and have helped many in Norway to avoid being locked up to fossil solutions. The CO 2 tax has significantly reduced the use of fossil fuel oil and made it possible to introduce a ban later. A lot of greenhouse gas emissions have been cut. The system of environmentally-differentiated purchase taxes on new passenger cars is a cornerstone in the conversion of a zero-emission car park and has made Norway the world leader in an electric car, where other countries around us are struggling to make such a conversion. It must always pay to choose zero emissions instead of more greenhouse gas emissions. As the fight against climate change and against natural disasters must now be stepped up, it is important that the simplest and cheapest for consumers and businesses is not to release greenhouse gases. If you want to support selected industries, or drivers for that matter, you have to do so in ways other than exempt emissions from fossil energy use. It just doesn't keep target in 2019. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e531	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e538	Owning a dwelling is an important part of the Norwegian welfare model. That is why the government has been able to speed up housing, reduce construction costs, make it more attractive for young people to save for their own housing, we have reinforced the housing social measures and the job to reduce property taxes. At the same time, SV has gone the opposite way. The lot wishes to eliminate housing savings for young people, and the lot is committed to increasing property tax as much as possible. Especially in the municipalities they control themselves, there's a horrendous statistic about it. But in one area, SV wants to lighten the fees. They have promised to cut the document fee, which means that the more expensive the dwelling you buy, the larger the gift package. We have heard SV today talk about how to distribute to the rich: Does SV really believe that relief to those who buy the fattest and largest dwellings in Oslo west is the most targeted measure to help more people enter the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e543	The last time I checked was at least the right also against the document fee. I think that has also been the Left and the Advance Party, but the efficiency has not been so great in this area. SV proposes a review and a conversion of the housing tax. Because we're reintroducing a benefit tax while we're removing the document fee and the BSU system, most people are going to get better overall. In fact, housing taxes will be reduced with SV's proposals. With the reintroduction of the benefit tax, we're just making sure you get a stop in speculation. We are addressing the challenge of today's housing tax, that it is in the interests of the richest with the largest dwellings. We see that the document fee is the biggest challenge for people my age, who are in the establishment phase and are going to buy housing for the first time, or who move more frequently than what you do later in life. Then I think it might be wise to remove that fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e550	In this room we distribute billions for good. We have a good welfare society that takes care of those who fall outside. We all want us to still have that. But in this room we do not create values – it does thousands of entrepreneurs, ordinary workers and business owners. As we know, values must be created before they can be shared. Some are super rich, but most business owners aren't. They run small and medium-sized enterprises, create jobs and provide us with high tax revenues. The representative said that politics is too wild. When SV in its alternative state budget will increase taxes by nearly 23 billion. Do they think that this will lead to the start-up of more private enterprises? And will more businesses succeed when they are such creepy tax increases for businesses around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e555	What is also – I say – a often repeated ‘truth’ in this hall is that it is only business leaders and capitalists who create values. From the Right we are told that one must be rich – like man – and from the West in order to create values. We in SV believe that there are people working in Norway who create the values. It's the workers that create values. Therefore, SV lowers taxes on income from work in this budget, while we increase taxes on inheritance, we increase taxes on wealth and on property. This will mean that we get a tax system that actually contributes to value creation, and that actually means that you can also organize more jobs, not just stuff money into property, as we see in Norway today. I experience that we had a lot of value creation and that jobs were also created under the red-green government, as the tax system was more redistributive than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e562	In its alternative budget, SV increases taxes and taxes by 22.8 billion. kr. It will be very paralysing for Norwegian business, and it is very bad. At the same time, SV is concerned with green conversion, and that is very good. But how does the representative think that the green shift should be carried out without economic growth in the private sector, and therefore without the ability to invest in the technology we now need to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e567	I am truly surprised if the representative Raja believes that if only Kjell Inge Smoke becomes zero tax payers, or the Spetalen pays less in taxes, you get more of a green shift in Norway – that's what's going to happen, and that we have to give big tax gifts to the wealthiest in society, the very top to succeed with the green shift. It's a gross misconception. What is needed in order to succeed with the green shift is to dry up on climate solutions, to stimulate technological development, to turn Nysnø into a large investment bank for green solutions in the business world, and it is to dry out spending on the woodworking industry in Norway, to use the entire toolbox – it is not to use the Community's funds for tax gifts to them at the top, as this government has chosen to do. If it had been a success factor, you'd think it would be 25 billion. kr given in tax cuts, mainly to the richest, had given higher emissions reductions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e572	I actually thought this tax debate was a bit picky in the disc on tax returns to the richest, and he shows it back in time. This is the first year of the Christian People's Party is in the government and is involved in budgeting. Does SV admit that there is no net tax increase in this budget, or what does SV mean is the net tax increase in the 2020 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e578	Since 2013, when this government – with different members – has given tax cuts to the wealthiest in the country, it continues to happen even if new tax cuts do not come at the top. For every year, the richest get a less tax bill than they got before. Every year, this sums up. When we can sum up the same now – that the thousands of the richest in Norway with the greatest wealth, and they are rich, have got a billion dollars in total in tax cuts – it will continue to sum up in the future. That's why SV is still concerned about it. We will continue to be, because for every year the community gets less into income, which we could have used for hospitals that are grossly underfunded, and to the municipalities that in these days sit and kiss in the school budget and in the budget for health and care. We could have spent that money avoiding the unsocial cuts that the Christian People's Party has also helped sign over the last few years, and that would have been a better bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e583	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e588	Economic freedom is essential to letting people live a self-chosen life, to live a life of real freedom – a life in which we decide for ourselves which career to take, where to live, and how to use our leisure time. The freedom to live a self-chosen life is given to us only in societies where economic freedom is guaranteed. Professional choices and careers are – in addition to family life – one of the most important parts of life of most people. We spend more time at work than in any other arena, and what we do helps define ourselves as human beings. It's always been easier for people with a more privileged background to start their own business and bet on their own idea. They have taken the education and have the capital to which they were going. At the same time, we know that talent is not distributed by family background. So we're dependent on triggering the creativity of the entire population if we're going to get into a business that creates opportunities for people, and that drives through the green shift that we're now in the middle of. The left has always been for us through fiscal policy to facilitate access to start our own business and bet on our own ideas. We don't want the opportunity to pursue their own ambitions and dreams to be reserved for the few. There shall be no class distinction related to starting separately. Nor should it be easier to move abroad to take business ideas further. Norway shall be the most entrepreneurial destination in the world. That's why the Left has been in charge of the option system we have today. We have encountered great resistance along the way, but we know that it is a crucial instrument to ensure that it is in Norway the ideas of the future are created and further developed. Now we're going to double the option benefit per employee, and we've expanded the number of employees in companies covered by the plan. These are good changes, but we're far from in goal. The option mechanism is the most important tool we have to ensure that start-up innovation companies can attract and hold the talents. We've met a lot of countless entrepreneurs who can tell us that in order to get and keep the best people at a time when they're not yet going with profit and can pay, they have to be able to offer them something else. The same applies to SkattenFUNN, a scheme established to support innovation in private business. This is a scheme that is open to large and small companies, but we are now strengthening the 150 million scheme. kr. The change involves an increase in the hourly rate – from SEK 600 to SEK 700 – and a simplification of the rates and control mechanisms. All of this primarily benefits small and medium-sized enterprises, which are more likely to feel the impact of less bureaucracy and increased hourly rates. The left-hand side of this room often criticises what they refer to as tax cuts to the richest, but to focus on entrepreneurs like the government does with these grips is good for the whole of society. The state has an important role to play, but it is in private business that values are created and innovation takes place. We politicians must create the framework for innovation to succeed. We're doing that by following these improvements. Many of us in this room and especially the government parties have visited a lot of innovation companies, both in the districts and in the cities. They contribute millions who pay for just public schools and hospitals to the community. They create climate-friendly solutions and build jobs for all those who have a dream of working on something that makes the world a better place to be. They're out of work, they're humble, and they're idealistic – it's hard work. Where they are, in order to create values, they don't always have time to praise the Storting. Therefore, it is very important that we have a special responsibility to attend to their case – making their everyday life easier. There's freedom policy in practice and one of the reasons why I'm proud to call Left my party. We cannot evaluate the option mechanism now or the extension of the TaxFUNN yet, but we can say something about today's Founding Policy, which Left has stood for so far. We fought through the pressure grain fund at a time when others thought it would be both expensive and just a system of privileged richness. The truth turned out to be the opposite. Presåkornfond has helped 170 Norwegian companies through a critical phase. 60 pst. of these companies tell Menon Economics that they have grown faster because of the scheme. These are 170 companies with at least 170 entrepreneurs who have been able to realize at least 170 creative ideas in the market. Someone's made it clear, others haven't, but we've made sure that those who need it get access to capital even though they don't have a rich uncle who can spit in investment at first. In a few years, we'll see the same results when Menon or others evaluate the TaxFUNN scheme or the option scheme. Until then, we have to remember that we are fighting for more economic freedom, and that's one of the most important things we can do to let people live the life they dream of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e614	The State budget includes, inter alia: a transfer of municipal tax returns to the tax system — a strong centralisation that meets the strong opposition of both employees and their organisations and more than 300 of the country’s rapporteurs. A fear of local competence and of the good, flexible local solutions, a fear of a weakened fight against the crime of working life, and a fear that it will be more difficult to collect the tax to be levied. Is the Left willing to review this case, where one engages in dialogue with those affected? Would the Left also be positive that you can find flexible solutions for those who now have an extremely long journey to their new place of work, so that they can keep their place of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e621	I think it's a familiar case that the left has previously been opposed to the merging of these chemistry offices. In a proposal from 2015, it was proposed that the number should be 33. It's now increased to 56. It's an efficiency gain of 370 million. kr in the year as a result. It's a real savings, and the Center Party should also be concerned that we can make it more efficient where it's possible to do it. At the same time, it is important, as the representative Gegelsvik said, that we are able to combat the crime of working life and the black economy. One of the reasons for having larger offices is that it will help to combat the crime of working life and the black economy in a more robust way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e628	With the proposal available, one will go from 227 offices, which you have today, to 56. It's a powerful centralization. With regard to the fight against crime at work, it is important to have just a local presence and outreach activity, so that one can control the enterprises and not just sit and look into a computer screen, but in fact where reality is out there, both to find flexible solutions for businesses in tax collection and to be in the companies that have unclean flour in the bag. Why has Left turned his argument completely on his head here?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e637	It's not completely turned on its head. As I started to say, the left was against trying to do this in 2015. It was then suggested that you go down to 33 offices. Now it's 56 places, and it's supposed to be all over the country. Neither is it true, as one often hears in the central party theory, that everything is going back to Oslo, but relatively less of these jobs is going to Oslo. There will be strong trade unions in the districts, and this will also contribute to the fight against labour crime and the black economy, as the representative Gielsvik points out. Through precisely these stronger and more robust offices, with better interaction between the control settings and the police, we will just lay the foundation for this. At the same time, there will also be an efficiency gain of 370 million. kr a year, and I think the Central Party will also be concerned that we use the public tax dollars you get, in the most sensible way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e642	«The government's spectacle proposal is a bad one. The left of the Storting will do what we can to reverse it," said Abid Q. Raja, financier of the government party left to the Evening Post in October. When we see the phase of the budgetary agreement between the government parties, this has not been reversed. There has been a comment – without money – that it should not affect young people, as the government has already promised that their proposals should not be affected. My question to the representative Raja is quite simply: How does he think this went?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e649	I'm satisfied with what we've got here. That is not correct, as the representative Kaski has understood this and how she asks the question. The verbal decision explicitly states that all children who need glasses have the right to have it. You've looked at different models of how to make standardized rates. This has been done for two schemes. All children who have the right to wear glasses will get it, but you can buy different impressions. The most expensive statements must be paid by the parents themselves. I don't remember exactly how the verbal decision is formulated – if Kaski wants it, I can find it for her – but it explicitly says that you should have some time to phase this in, and that the government should make sure that all children who need glasses get glasses. So I think we agree that this case has resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e654	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e660	It's most noticeable that the Christian People's Party has entered the government. There are not tax havens, but several measures against child poverty. Taxes and taxes finance important well-being, and the Christian People's Party wants a tax system in which everyone relies on ability and where environmentally harmful consumption is reduced. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the tax system should be simple, understandable and manageable for those who are taxed. It is important to ensure the democratic legitimacy of the tax system, but also to protect the interests of the community. The Christian People's Party wants a solid, progressive and distortive tax system. Tax revenue is the basis for financing our welfare society. The objective of the tax system should be to finance well-being as efficiently as possible. Tax policy should be set up in such a way as to maximise the use of resources and provide a basis for growth in industry. The tax system must also be designed to create more profitable jobs and increase employment. It's worth working, saving and investing. At the same time, the tax system should smooth out and keep the differences between people low. It's important for the Christian People's Party. It's Norwegian success. The Christian People's Party believes we have a good budget, both on the income side and on the expenditure side. The tax scheme provides for increased value creation, more social taxes and taxes, lower emissions and sustainable public finances. The budget does not contain net tax credits, but the government does several good re-priorities. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that we have finally done something with the 350-kroner limit. She has made imports from abroad less than NOK 350 free of charge, while goods purchased in Norwegian shops have VAT and excise duties from the first kroner. This is a tax relief for foreign enterprises that weakens the income of the country and provides a strong competitive disadvantage for Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs. It's good that we're getting fixed up in this right now. The scheme shall apply to goods with a value of up to NOK 3000 and will largely correspond to the new agreed system in force in the EU from 2021. The system allows the fee for the receipt of goods to be kept low. It will also contribute to the simple and transparent import of goods by consumers, because they will be confronted with the full price, including a charge, when they shop at registered providers. This is an important breakthrough for the Christian People's Party, with which we are very pleased. Furthermore, the NRK licence is made more social. The NRK licence, as we know it, will be removed from 1 January 2020, and the NRK will be funded from the state budget. With this, the NRK will have a more forward-looking and social funding model, and many will be better off with the new scheme than with a licence. For example, a single savings of about $1,500 a year, and the minimum pensioners don't pay taxes, so they want to save the whole license. Fees are an effective means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and are now increasing the overall rate of CO 2 tax on mineral products by 5 pst. in addition to price adjustment. In addition, we propose to wind up some reduced rates and exemptions. The government follows up the recommendations of the party-sanctioned climate action selection in the fisheries industry. The government will also make it more attractive for small start-ups to use options to attract and keep key people in the business. The option advantage that you add can be doubled to 1 million. kr. It will make it easier to recruit and retain core competences in the company, and the scheme will also be extended to include companies with up to 12 members. In addition, the tax FUNN scheme will be strengthened by 150 million. kr annually. There has been a clear desire from industry to increase the maximum hourly rate of own R & D work, and the hourly rate will now be increased from 600 to 700 kroner per hour, in line with the recommendation in the evaluation report. On the other hand, property taxes create new companies that prevent tax adaptation. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the tax package for 2020. We make important adjustments that make it more social and that make it more expensive to pollute. At the same time, we have no large tax havens. That makes sense in the plight of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e688	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e693	One of the mantras that have come from the new majority government is that even if you have a majority, you should be busy listening. One of the issues that has created the highest level of involvement in Norway related to the State budget is the centralisation of the tax collection, where one goes from municipal tax collectors to transferring it to the tax base. Among those who have engaged are also a number of Christian People's Party rapporteurs, along with over 300 rapporteurs in Norway. Will the Christian People's Party be willing to review the matter again, given that those affected say they have not been heard in the process, and they have important counter-conceptions? Will the Christian People's Party be willing to review the matter and assess whether you can find new solutions, which also provide a better solution both for the municipalities and for employees directly affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e698	It has been said from the Christian People's Party before that this is a matter that we have lost, and I also know that the Center Party is familiar with what it is like to be in a government where more people are going to be a few. Sometimes you win a case, and sometimes you lose a case. What's good about the conversion that's going on right now is that one after all keeps more offices than what it was built up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e703	I record that there are more offices than it was put up for the last time, when the Christian People's Party sat in opposition and with us helped stop it. But still there is a powerful centralization that lies here, one goes from 227 offices to 56 offices. Over 300 rapporteurs have gathered in Norway, including a number of rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party, in a short time. In view of the above, would it not have been a point to see whether a new solution could be found, or at least to find a solution for employees who will now have a very long journey to their new job — if they can keep their former job to prevent such a long journey?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e708	I can't go into the details when it comes to how the debates have been about this. I note that it is as it has been in the budget, and that one has managed to keep more offices than what was in the proposal from the beginning. That's what the Christian People's Party thinks is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e713	The cord shift is with the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e718	The majority of the population have agreed on a tax package that facilitates the continuation of good and safe development in the Norwegian economy. The left-hand side says that a penny less in tax is a penny more in welfare, but it's wrong. There is one more penny for food, clothing, holidays, Christmas presents and leisure activities. It's well-being, and it's freedom. Higher taxes will not strengthen the sustainability of the welfare society. Higher taxes reduce family freedom to control their own economy and make it less attractive both to work and to invest in Norway – that is, the opposite of what we need. Higher taxes are a bad response to the challenges ahead of us. The government's answer is to get more people to work. Then we have to make sure that people want to work, and that they have a job to do, and that we have companies that don't move out of Norway because we have higher taxes than our neighboring country. In all its budgets, the government has prioritised growth-promoting tax relief and forward-looking investment. We've reduced the tax on income for both people and businesses from 28 to 22 pst. We have reduced the property tax, we have removed the inheritance tax, and we have reduced the car charges by reducing the charges on use and ownership by approximately NOK 3000. We have improved the Tax FUNN scheme, and we have introduced option tax arrangements and investment deductions for small start-up companies to strengthen the company's business policy. It is important to bear in mind that Norway is very much at the forefront of climate policy. 80 pst. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are already priced. For comparison, 80 pst. the world emissions are neither subject to any charge nor covered by the allowance system. Norway is a leading country, and our policies deliver results. Emissions are going down. We have the lowest emissions since 1995, and per capita emissions are the lowest in more than 30 years. The cars are becoming more environmentally friendly. When we took up the government offices, emissions from new passenger cars in Norway were at EU level. Today we are more than 40 pst. during the discharges into the EU. It is a result of the rapid phase-in of electric cars and low-emission cars that have over time had lower charges than fossil-powered cars. Seven out of ten cars sold this year are low and zero-emission cars. The opposition parties have submitted their alternative budget which cracks in all directions, except in the case of taxes. And if you're going to follow the opposition, it means less to route to most people. The central party, the Workers' Party and SV increase taxes by 2.9 billion, respectively. NOK 9,7 billion. kr and 22,7 br. kr. And the Environmental Party of Greens and Reds will go even further. It will affect both workers and owners of enterprises that invest and create jobs across the country. When Red, SV and the Green Party increase fuel and diesel taxes heavily, hundreds of thousands of Norwegians are hit every day and have to drive a car to work and pick up children in kindergarten. I believe that we must pursue a policy for those who do not have the opportunity to use public transport. The question is how much the Workers' Party will increase taxes and taxes in order for Jonas Gahr Støre to become Prime Minister. Is it 10 billion? kr, it's 15 billion. kr, or is there no limit? Getting more for each tax dollars is never going to be wrong. That is why I am pleased that the majority will now transfer the tax collection from the municipalities to the tax rate. Not only do we reduce the collection costs, but we at the same time strengthen the fight against crime at work and the black economy, and we strengthen legal certainty for the individual. The government believes that the housing of people should be a home and not a tax item. That is why we have reduced the maximum tax rate from 7 to 5 per million – to major protests from Labour Party and Centerpart rapporteurs, who will continue to levy the highest possible property tax – and we aim to further reduce it, from 5 to 4 per million, in 2021. Developments in the Norwegian economy since 2013 show that the government’s tax policy is working. The 2020 tax package suggests that the good development of the Norwegian economy can continue in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e748	The working party tried to challenge committee leader Asheim in the finance debate, but got a somewhat unkind answer, I'd say, so I'm trying again, but a pick up. Some of what the government has done with this budget is to introduce a large CO 2 tax on electrolysis and metallurgical processes, which has quite significant consequences for many industrial businesses around the country. One example is Benteler at Raufoss, which the government spends several million dollars in extra expenses, making it much harder for them to make investments to reduce CO 2 emissions in the future. Why does my government have the right to make it harder for industrial companies to make climate-friendly investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e761	Firstly, I do not agree with that claim. I think we should be very proud that Norway is a leading country in terms of pricing emissions. This government has announced that we will continue to escalate the CO 2 tax by 5 pst. Every year. We do that because we have an obligation to deliver to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. I thought the Workers' Party agreed. But then probably the Labour Party should go a little further through its own proposal in its own alternative budget, because they are trying to create the impression that their proposals will be more focused on the businesses they are now facing as if they were concerned. That's just not right. The aim of this room must be for us all to price emissions in a good way and, at the same time, to conduct a tax policy that allows companies to make good investments in Norway – instead of moving capital out of the country, because it will do so with the powerful tax austerity that the Workers' Party is at the forefront of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e770	This was a bit of comfort to the industry companies. Unlike the government of my Labour Party, it is important to listen precisely to the industry. We have proposed an agreement in cooperation with the parties on how much we can reduce emissions, and how a phase in the CO 2 tax, for all are certain that emissions have to go down – not least the industry, which is working hard every day to get this done. But when a company charges a day to next rather than phase it in over time in collaboration with those who owe it, it has consequences. It's bad governance, it's bad climate policy, and it's bad policies to create new jobs. Why is it so important for the government to keep introducing new taxes overnight?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e786	This is not to introduce anything overnight. It is announced in the government's platform that we will praise emissions by increasing CO 2 taxes. It creates predictability for Norwegian business because they know what the government is going to do about pricing emissions. At the same time, there is considerable predictability for the same business life, to which this government listens, when they are concerned about reducing corporate tax. We've reduced the corporate tax from 28 pst. until 22 pst. The working party will now reverse some of this. We've listened to the industry and the business community when they're busy doing something about the anti-competitive taxes on wealth. The Labour Party has nothing to do with pursuing an industrial and tax-friendly policy for Norwegian business and investment. Rather, on the contrary, the Workers' Party is tightening its taxes by 10 billion. kr, but they're going to cooperate with parties that will go even further. My question back to the Workers' Party is: How far is the Workers' Party willing to go to get a government change and get the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e794	I notice that the Swedish Government, Siv Jensen, says that Norwegian business must have expected predictability to have strong overnight tax increases, because that is what this government has been doing to industry by industry year after year, whether it is charging non-alcoholic beverages, the taxi industry or anything else. At that time, the powerful industry and some other industry in Norway must also expect that it is now their turn to get predictability and tax shocks from this government. These are enterprises that target emissions reduction jobs and also use recycled material in their production – such as Figjo in its porcelain production or Metallco, which uses aluminium scrap. Why is the Minister of Finance more concerned with increasing taxes than with reducing emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e799	This Minister of Finance is concerned that we should both reduce emissions and have competitive framework conditions for Norwegian business. Therefore, this government has accumulated a reduction in tax burden in this country by 25.5 billion. kr. It stands in stark contrast to proposals from the Centre Party, the Workers' Party, SV and parties that aim to cooperate if they would win the 2021 elections. What companies know they'll get with it is one thing, and that's that taxes are going to go up in this country. What's unclear about these companies is how much. It creates unforeseeableness, it does not – to say – create future faith, desire and willingness to invest more in Norway. On the contrary, it helps to perhaps look beyond the borders of the country and find other safe ports to invest in capital — in countries that are actually committed to facilitating investment in their own country. It is up to this government, and therefore we have reduced taxes and taxes, as opposed to what the Central Party also proposes in its alternative budget: that the tax and tax regime be tightened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e804	These are the companies I mentioned – Benteler, Figgjo, Metallco, Yara – that are now receiving a strong nightly call. They are highly competitive enterprises. Several of the companies that also receive a fee increase have emission allowances and, in addition to paying the allowance price, receive one. These are enterprises which, with their framework conditions, when they are given such unforeseeability by the government, are more difficult to make new investments and cut emissions. Instead, the policy must be distorted. Some of those who have the most in Norwegian society can contribute more to the community than they do today, so that we can reduce taxes on ordinary people and on business. Why is there an increasingly high-tax policy that affects both the people and the business community in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e813	Tax policy must be linked, and the overall tax burden on business must be taken into account when assessing this. I understand that it is important for the Centre Party to create the impression that they are concerned about the level of fees in this country. But you have to look at the whole of what the Central Party is proposing, and the whole of what the Central Party's cooperation parties are proposing. It creates predictability for business when they are told that the tax burden is to be lifted. However, there is little comfort in the fact that the Senterpartiet will not be involved in praising emissions for all industries and industries in Norway, when, on the other hand, the tax burden on business is considerably increased overall. I believe that this is a very bad policy, and we need to be able to pursue a policy that brings emissions down in Norway – which I feel is that Norwegian business is very busy and is a long way to go – while at the same time ensuring good and competitive framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e818	What industry is just asking for is predictable framework conditions. They are also willing to enter into cooperation and commitments with the authorities in order to reduce emissions. Instead – listening to business – only increases a charge and says it should be the answer. Similarly, in the case of CO 2 funds for business transport, which is also a theme of the State budget. A broad alliance within both business and environmental organisations says that one must use a well-tested model that one has used for NOx, in order to reduce emissions and get binding agreements with the business community. Instead, the government sits on its high horse and says that we know best, we have our own model. Why don't you listen to business and what they're actually asking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e828	That's what this government is doing, and that's why we've reduced the total tax and tax burden by 25.5 billion. kr. That's why we're predictable, by following up what's in the government's platform on how we're going to ensure that we price the emissions and get the emissions in Norway down. So we're not sitting on any high horse. But what's interesting is to know from the representative, Gülsvik, is how he intends to fund such a CO 2 fund for business. That's what's the main challenge. This is a tax that is currently entering the community and is contributing to the financing of completely fundamental welfare systems in our society. It just means, in reality, that the Centre Party has to tighten up other taxes and taxes even more than they already do. I think it's a very bad idea to create predictability for investments in new, future-oriented jobs that we're going to need many, many more in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e838	It's worth working. But at least it pays to inherit here in the country. Many of the richest in Norway are heirs, and we see that the development over time over the last decades in particular is that wealth accumulates on ever fewer hands, and with wealth also gaining power. One can simply inherit a better position in life, which is contrary to the principles of equal opportunities, which the Progress Party must also be concerned with. It should ring some bells when Norway has some of the world's richest under 30 years. Call the death tax, which I am sure Minister of Finance Siv Jensen will say, and as we have already heard from representatives of the Progress Party – please call it that, but explain to me why it is fair that when a person works and labors and earns 500,000 kroner, he has to pay taxes, while another person who is lucky and inherits 5 million. kr, dropping tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e845	I am very pleased that some of the first things this government did when we joined in 2013 were to remove the inheritance fee, a hateful fee that caused major problems for ordinary families when the inheritance settlement was to be carried out. I understand that it is important for SV to present this only as an envy or a discrimination for them at the top, but the truth is that the inheritance fee was a significant problem for quite ordinary families who wanted to keep important properties in the family's property, but who simply got it, precisely because of the very unsocial inheritance tax. So it's worth saying that SV should probably go a little by itself, because the property tax scheme that was under the red-green government was less redistributive than the property tax scheme that applies under this government. It should maybe take SV along and maybe adjust it a little bit to its rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e853	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e860	Maybe the most interesting thing in this setting is the sides 68-70, the comparison table. It shows amazingly small differences between the lots. It must be bad to look at the Progress Party, the party that was founded into a strong reduction in taxes and taxes. Before the 2013 elections, the representative Bård Hoksrud promised that if the party of progress came into government, the bombs would be demolished. Not only did the Progress Party come into government, Hoksrud became State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport. With the party leader in the Ministry of Finance, one would think it would be easy to fulfill the promise. However, no – the trees sprout as fungi in rainy autumn weather, from 170 to 245. The promise of demolition was to throw blues in the eyes of the people most, it was not given without a clear majority for the Progress Party. The tax burden on people and business has increased over the six years this government has been in. Taking the chocolate charge: The Bondevik II Government proposed to abolish this levy in its 2006 budget. The Progress Party also had it in its alternate budgets, and now all four parties are in government together. Has the fee been removed? – No, on the contrary, in the 2018 budget it was increased by 80 pst. Is it nice that border trade is still setting new records? The distance between rhetoric and reality is increasing. Trumpism is also encroaching on Norwegian politics. The government has reduced its tax revenue by about 25 billion. kr, mostly for those who do not need these reliefs. In the seventh budget, which we are now discussing, fiscal policy seems to have met the evil, too narrow the space for action: no more room for government's main cause, tax havens. Now is the message that we have to prepare for more pressing times. What is it then that they direct the search light to? - Yes, against the expenses. In the next year's budget, the trip has been supported by the children's glasses and dental regulation. The line by tightening in front of those who are at least walking on continues. When they no longer have the room for action to cut tax revenue in the country, there is little room for action on the income side of the municipality. The property tax is to be abolished, says the Progress Party. I dare not hope that this promise is as much writing in the sand as that the trees were to be torn, because they are in the process of cutting the bets. What is the OECD's analysis of the Norwegian economy that came this week, say? – Yes, that the tax on property is already too generous. The economic space for action is getting tighter. Then we have to have a policy to build it bigger. Reforms and measures that provide more people with work are a good place to start, as the Labour Party proposes. Just when the Norwegian economy is going well, the opportunities to prepare for the challenges we face should be used more actively. Getting the climate emissions and the differences between people down and getting more jobs is our policy. Then the economic space will also be bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e877	It's serious, it's called "warning here" from all over the country. City and local authorities take clear warnings against changing the tax collection, rapporteurs have to take up both pens, e-mails and telephones and pass on the warnings to government and corruption. The clear notification is not to remove the tax collection from the municipalities. And they justify it well: the municipalities have numbers to hit the table with. Tax collection is both effective and rational, and one of the reasons is local knowledge and knowledge. There's some kind of saying for this: if it works, don't fix it! State Council Jensen could have listened without fear to both its own party traps and others representing the government parties out there in the municipalities, in order to keep the tax collection locally. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like that. What is also a serious matter is that the Council of State does not listen to industries that are in serious trouble. The horse industry is trading a lot of money and activity across the country. About 16,500 years' worth of work is generated by this industry. Now all red lamps light up for the industry. They're asking for better framework conditions. The working party has listened to the industry and proposes to reduce the totalization fee and to provide the industry with 100 million. kr already from next year. It is serious that the Council of State has not seen and listened to the signals coming from the horse industry. There are many jobs at stake all over the country. I hope that the government can take the seriousness into account and eventually participate in an upliftment for the industry, but unfortunately that does not seem to be the case. But it's Lucia's day, and then we sing: ‘Black lowers the night In the stable and living room The sun has gone its way, Shadows Threat Into Our Dark House Lights on ladders Santa Lucia, Santa Lucia». So maybe the council could be a little bit of Lucia and light up a little bit in the stable. It's allowed to hope. I can set up as a star boy, if it could help the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e907	In the draft government budget, the government has proposed to centralise the tax collection from the current municipal tax collection to the tax rate – a government that has said that one is busy listening, that one is not just going to use its majority. In the hearing held by the Financial Committee, there was strong opposition from those directly affected by this, the employees’ organisations, both because of the content of the proposal and because it was completely surprising, without dialogue with those directly affected. Now, in the last few days, there has been an increasing uprising in Norwegian municipalities: over 300 rapporteurs from both the opposition parties and the government parties, both from the Christian People's Party and from the Right and other parties, have signed on to a bulwark where they strongly oppose the government's proposals. Then it would have been an idea if one might have listened to some of the signals coming, because it is very unwise what it is put up to. It will weaken local competence. As a result, the fight against crime at work will become more demanding. For example, in North Norway, there is one place where employees are expected to sit and work in the future with the heavy cases of recovery in this area. What one should have done, on the other hand, if one was concerned about strengthening the fight against labour crime, is what the municipal tax collectors have asked for year after year, time after time, but which has been rejected by the Ministry of Finance, namely that they should be given extended powers, have an opportunity to gain greater transparency, so that it can strengthen the possibility of collecting the right tax on employers' taxes. So you didn't get it. So for staff discounts and free tickets: it's petty, what's happening. Bus drivers, staff on trains, shop employees – it’s not very cool to work there, it’s hard work, you don’t have many privileges. Many people experience strong pressure on pay and working conditions. And then you're going to be deprived of some of the few goods that you have. Now it has also been announced to pensioners and widowers and widowers after former train crews that they cannot use the travel card that was previously used – one must pay a fee, one must create a profile on the Vy to be able to participate in the scheme in the future. And then Bane NOR ends his description by saying directly, of course, that it's the politicians' responsibility, but it's a very unwise policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e918	First to the Workers' Party: So the majority have chosen to wait for a matter from the government on the issue of hydropower taxation, but aquaculture tax, which is at exactly the same point in the treatment, out at the hearing, has not said anything about it, on the grounds that there has not been a case. No, there has not been a matter of hydropower or farm tax, but on the one hand you are ready to conclude right away. What's the difference between these two things? So on to the tax collector – to the Central Party: whose proximity is so important, how can it be that the Central Party's own rapporteurs have centralised many of their offices? Last in 2018, the rapporteur of the Senterpartie on my side of the country, Aure kommune, together with five other North American municipalities, decided to centralise the tax office in Kristiansund. If proximity is important, why doesn't the Senter Party just go against the government's proposal, but on the contrary, all municipalities are obliged to have their own chemist? It must be the logical consequence of an argument where proximity is so inexorably important. Yes, we will have 356 tax collection offices from 1 January 2020. If Nordre Sunnmøre Kemnerkontoret is right, which is supposed to serve 90,000 people, it's a little strange to think that you're going to run so hard against a smaller municipality going with more people. Even the municipality of the Center Party’s own leader, Stange, went already in 2012 with Hamar to have a joint tax collection office. If business is against this here, how can it be that the NHO has said that this is a really good response to the crime of working life? They get state-owned agencies together and they really take the big ones who run and undermine the work-life model we have here in Norway. The central party's policy in this matter is not really politics, it's just rhetoric. The knowledge is evenly distributed in this country, and there are many of the same employees joining the new organisation, and there are the same systems to be used in the new organisation. The room for discretion in such cases should be small, it's after all the collection of taxes, but if there was a judgement there, the same people would be able to manage the same discretion in the continuation. One must have been impressed with the adopted rhetorical note of the Centre Party for quite a number of years if logic is taken out of that representative no. 2 from Hedmark was able to trick himself out for the whole five minutes earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e931	It's approaching Christmas. The municipalities in my county would get 263 sick homes or 401 more teachers with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. It would be a great Christmas present. The government's Christmas gift is minus 100 million. kr to the new large-scale western country. Christmas gift to the nearly 300 spokesmen who have signed up for the tax offices, they add there and the Kemner Federation is ready: «We know best. It shall be centralised.’;» The difference between the rent on land and the choice of taxes on electricity: it is clear. A mass accumulation deals with this in 2017, and we say in a note that we stand firm on what we meant in 2017. Government councils and representatives from the government parties will not respond to the level of taxation to come with their own government. Should the taxes on wealth be removed? Should the tolls be removed now, or should they continue as before with the votes of the Progress Party adopting new, large-scale toll projects? What was helpful when air passenger charges were introduced, when sugar charges were introduced, or when plastic bag charges were introduced overnight? What was good, then, when a double overnight increase in the VAT on hotels and public transport? The fees have increased by 6.2 billion. kr under this government, and they with at least income have not been taxed in any way during the 2017–2019 period. It's just reading the government's own proposition. Is this fair? Does the wallet already have a small size or size? I haven't even mentioned all of the other non-social cuts that the government has brought with it. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the spokespersons of the Right and the Progress Party are out to lead us all in times of need. But they're just looking at a cut in the expenses, not the revenue possibilities. And they write in a note that it is important that the reduction in taxes continues – i.e. less income. And this is the Christian People's Party. The Progress Party will even have a cut-off competition, where well-being, schooling, health and the elderly become the losers when they continue to choose tax cuts for those who have the most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e944	It was the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum who in his post was inside something he called the citizenship of the city of Bergen. I suppose to the extent that there are representatives of that profession, it may have to be signed. So I thought it was nice to have the kind of care that came out. Of course, I appreciate such conservative views that otherwise appeared in his articles. As regards the tax base in Bergen, the undersigned as a general taxpayer has also enjoyed being the head of the tax committee in that municipality for a number of years. So I would say that I have a certain knowledge of that floor. It's an absolutely excellent establishment, and it's absolutely excellent people who work there, but I don't want to ignore the fact that it can be natural with some renewal and development also in the public sector. So it's like there's some kind of business transfer that takes place, and probably most people will follow it. Developments are increasingly moving in a more effective — and, in my view, better — direction in tax collection. It's a significant improvement that can be made also within that area, I think. We have, as we know, a very effective tax rate. We can only think about the entire tax reporting system, how it's rigged to now, and how it works for most of us. It's an impressive thing, really. I believe that much of the competence in the tax bill can be transferred to the local tax collection. As stated in the case, a comprehensive management of taxes will be useful. In my opinion, this reform is very good and should have been implemented a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e955	The representative, Wang Soleim, stood on the platform here and said that this is not politics, it's just rhetoric. The centre party has fought against the massive centralisation of a laying down 227 municipal tax collection offices and replacing them with 56 offices in the tax administration. Within the offices of the tax office, all the offices that are to operate in the course of business follow-up are not all those that are to run in person. I wonder if the representative Wang Soleim has at all spoken to some of the rapporteurs who have protested – over 300 of the country's rapporteurs, also a part of his own party. I believe that some of those rapporteurs may have had some expectations that when the government spoke of it giving new tasks to the municipalities in the context of the community reform, this would mean a reality. But that's not what's in the city reform for the government. It's just centralization, as well, while the tasks have to be taken away from the municipalities, which is a good example of this. This will lead to a weakening of the professional environment that you have tried to build up in municipalities, in some contexts in collaboration with municipalities. It is also more difficult for the tasks that remain in the municipalities – how they are to be carried out. To the representative of Hille, who spoke of an effective tax rate: yes, that is absolutely right, and we should be pleased about that. But we have a municipal tax collection that is even more effective and that is able to recover even more than the tax rate does, and that's precisely why it's unwise to take the chance of centralization that happens. It could perhaps be an idea if, for once, the bad experiences from other countries, such as Denmark, were not copied, which tried at just such a centralisation. They have lost large tax revenues just because they have not made sure to recover the tax they are going to have. So in conclusion, if the government still insists that it should carry out this very unwise centralization, I hope at least that the government parties and the government can meet with some of the employees who are now taking a very long journey to their new job, many of them several dozen miles, and find flexible solutions, so that they can keep the office office they have had in their municipality, instead of being long-term commuters, who are also among those who have been severely punished by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e968	It was at least a somewhat more defensive centre party – and it really deserved this matter, too much of what has been said from this pulpit by their side, after all, has no root in the truth. I can also say that the representative of Gülsvik's own municipality already in 2011 joined Skedsmo in forming a joint tax collection office. Examples are many throughout the country. That's why my challenge to the Center Party is: if they really want to put power behind the words, they have to say that all the municipalities have to have their own office, because that's the only logical consequence of what they're actually saying. The logical consequence of the importance of proximity is: The more offices, the better. 227 could not be enough – a should have 500 offices! There has been a rapporteur's appeal, and that is quite right. We'll always listen when local democracy's choice wants to make changes and wants to influence the Storting. I believe this is a good reform. I also see that 44 pst. of the rapporteurs who have signed, have already merged their offices with one or more neighbouring municipalities. The Central Party's own representative from my county, Geir Inge Lien, has also signed the appeal – while having a joint tax collection office with Molde. And when the Center Party enters Denmark: there is a big difference between what was the starting point for this reform's implementation in Denmark versus Norway. In Norway, we have the assumption that the same system is used by the tax rate and the municipal tax levieds. So it's actually just a little bit more efficient to merge because you're using the same system. So the starting point was something completely, completely different. But my challenge remains: why won't the Central Party set up more offices and add money to its government budget? Now it is being made public, so now you can decide on the Stortinget to have more offices in the Kingdom of Norway. Finally, a explanation of vote and a correction to the vote: the Government parties will not support any of the solutions proposed here in the Chamber. I am sure that the government will discuss matters relating to the working day of employees during the new employer, and I am sure that the tax will also extend far to meet the needs of competent employees in such a conversion process. Then I also have a correction, and it is in the one-time fee decision, under 2), group of charges. g: Thus, the engine power must be in kilowatts and not in kilograms, and the engine capacity must be in cubic centimeters and not in kilograms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e985	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e990	It's a part I don't understand, among other things. the claim that the Christian People's Party is in a competition. It was also a mistake that was mentioned that it was 100 million. kr i cut to Westland. That's 100 million. kr i plus to Hordaland, and then it's 100 million. i cut to Sogn and Fjordane, so it goes into zero. What's really challenging is what's going on in the climate. That's the biggest thing that we have to pay more attention to. What would have been useful for the climate was if one of these rooms had good arrangements that took away the great economic risk of being first with, for example. collective offering requiring zero emission. There is Westland in the first row, on both ferries and speedboats. The government has a good record of this in the budget, and it is important that he is followed up quickly – for the county’s debt, but most for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e998	I really thought that the debate on tax returns was going to come up on the next issue, but it seems that we're taking it now, so I just want to say a few words about it. There have been many claims from this pulpit in the course of the debate, and many of them are absolutely crazy. One claim concerns the constant reference to Denmark. It is completely impossible to have a relevant comparison with Denmark. The main reason for Denmark’s problems with its conversion was that they inherited and operated a wide range of municipal collection systems, and they also had problems developing a new common system. In Norway, we do. So it's a system that's used and developed by the tax haven, so that's kind of the fault communication that's solved. This is a reform that essentially aims to strengthen the fight against crime at work and the black economy, strengthen legal certainty and facilitate greater equality of treatment. I hear that the Center Party is trying to create the impression that this flexibility that you have is being lost by transferring the tax collection to the tax rate. That's wrong. You want exactly the same legislation, there won't be any difference, but you want to facilitate a greater level of equal treatment for taxpayers, and I think that's a healthy principle. At least it should not be the case that some people get more flexible solutions because they know the tax collector. It seems to be the central party's approach to this, and I'm against it. I believe that taxpayers are entitled to the same legal certainty, no matter where they are in the country. The leader of the centre party was very concerned about the tax collector on the bar, but Stage does not have its own tax collection. They have intermunicipal cooperation with Hamar, and they have had it since 2012. This tax rate is now to remain in Hamar, but the Hamar office was strengthened by five annual works as a result of the conversion. This means, in fact, strengthening the system that Tryve Battle Violence Vedum stood and hoarded from this pulpit, and I think it might be nice to notice that. Then it's this so-called massive centralization that the Center Party is talking about. Well, I had a line change with the representative Gælsvik during the financial debate on 27 November. Then Gülsvik was very concerned about making efficiency improvements, cutting in the use of consultants, etc. Then I asked the representative if he thought it was such that the bureaucrat could only be taken in Oslo. Then the representative Gülsvik said yes, it makes sense to reduce bureaucracy wherever it is in Norway, so that we can free up money to strengthen other services. That's what he meant on November 27th. Now he is fighting to release resources that can be used to strengthen the police, kindergartens and other important services. I think this is a good reform and the Central Party should support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1013	The experience with many of today's government's reforms is that they have been sold in as something, and reality has become something else. The most obvious example is the so-called near-police reform. When a reader of the large, professional book that the Police College has written about the police reform, one of the main conclusions is the centralisation of Norwegian police times. Nevertheless, the government stood and called it a near-police reform, while it was centralisation and bureaucracy. Regional reform has been very expensive, bureaucratic, costly — it was sold as if it were being more efficient. So when you start looking at the different reforms that the government has implemented, they have not been bureaucratic, they have not been cost-effective – they have been bureaucratic. But the government has so blind faith that if only centralizing action is taken, there are gains coming out. That's a little bit of a professional coating for it. When we've been so clear in the discussion on municipal tax collection, it's first of all because we believe that the municipalities have done that task in a very good way. The statistics show that they have a very high level of collection — higher than the government. I'm not saying that the state is bad, but I'm saying that the municipal authorities have been very, very good. We in the Center Party believe that it has been a strength to know local conditions. Of course, I know very well that the tax collection at Hamar is part of a common tax office with a neighbouring municipality, because the municipalities have found that there is a good cooperation solution in my area – the good local sense. One can talk to them directly, and it is easy to get in touch with the various case handlers in the local tax office for my area. I was in a local tax office at Koppang two weeks ago. It's a tax office for the Middle East municipalities. There are four jobs involved in tax collection for Stor-Elvdal and neighbouring municipalities – a good solution. What happens when the office is now to be shut down as a result of the government's arrest is that they will have office space either at Hamar or on Kongswinger. There are 12 or 19 miles of driving — daily commuting — of course in practice almost impossible to implement, and it creates centralisation of jobs. I'm worried about that, and in addition, you get a tax collector who knows less about local conditions. That's what it's all about, if you really look at how this turns out. So I'm going to choose to add the good side to the end, because I heard what Vetle Wang Soleim said about workers in the tax system. To the seventh and last, politics is always about people, and it would be very good if government parties and government could look at whether local adjustments can be made so that some of those that this gets the most out of the way for in the workplace could keep office, at least in a transition. The concrete work has not been started on many of them, and there are some who may be able to get 12-20 miles away, and then it becomes very demanding. That is why I would like to make proposal No. 4 to a transmission proposal, which means that it cannot be used in the opposite way for further processing. I hope there was a real opening now in what Wang Soleim said.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1026	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1043	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each Party Group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1050	This part of the budgetary procedure is not the part that creates the most conflict, at least not in the vote, but it does not mean that the things in the Int. 5 S for 2019–2020, are also very important. Among other things, this is about our constitutional institutions, that is, the Storing and the Government. It's about our oil fund, and it's not least about the financial administration – taking in the taxes to be paid, efficient and good, but also that we have a good and proper regulation of our financial industry. I believe that the reason why there will be no major conflict in the vote here is that very much of the policy on these budget lines is being implemented in other parts of what the Committee on Budgets is dealing with over the year, either in the budgetary position and in alternative budgets or through, for example, in other areas. the fund notification and the financial market notification. Therefore, this is a setting that has very few alternative suggestions. It is a proposal from the party Red, and I am absolutely sure that they will justify themselves in their post. So with that I thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1057	Like the Minister of Finance, I may have thought that the bulk of the debate on the tax returns came up in this case, so at least here comes the Workers' Party's position on the matter. The centralisation of tax recoveries may be the main and biggest conflict in the Inst. 5 S for 2019-2020. This is not the first time this is proposed by the Right and the Advance Party. The new thing is that one gets a pass from a scarce majority in the main hall. The government itself writes that there is little that has changed in the matter since the last time it was at the hearing, in 2015. It's a basic mistake. Since then, 119 municipalities have merged into 47 new municipalities. When the Storting voted against the centralisation of tax collection in the previous period, it was pointed out that this should be seen in the context of the municipal reform. I cannot see that a new assessment has been made against a new municipal map now. Since the last time, we also know even more about the extent of social dumping and labour crime in the Norwegian labour market, which tax collectors play an important role in the fight against. Employee organisations believe that the government is leading to less control and less legal certainty, because no matter how we turn around, the distance between the controller and the controller will increase. In addition, we now get both the fixing and the collection of taxes on the same hands. The Kemnerverbund points out that this increases the risk of consideration being taken into account in establishing and that setting reasons are taken upon request – a well-considered objection at my discretion, but this is not explained by the government either. The aim of the Workers' Party is that our tax system should finance well-being, redistribute resources from them with the most to them with the least, and that the system should be of trust. To have confidence, it must be easy to get in touch with the tax authorities and the tax collector. A municipal organisation lowers the threshold and, for the Workers' Party, it is particularly important that disadvantaged taxpayers come into easy contact with the tax collector in order to meet their challenges. Another weakening of confidence in this centralisation and government budget in general is trust between municipalities and the state. The state, by the government, still imposes new demands on the municipalities that are not financed. Half of the municipalities report that the staffing standards for kindergartens are not funded. 70 pst. The same thing is said by the municipalities about the teacher's norm. Another example is the volunteer centres. Prior to receiving grants to volunteer centres, municipalities are now being transferred to the overall framework. It could have been OK if the grants actually went into the overall framework, but 74 pst. the municipalities receive smaller transfers to voluntary centres with the government budget. The reason why I bring these examples on issues that are not to be adopted today is that the same is true for tax offices. Many municipalities report that they are being deducted more than the cost of operating the tax collection – 1 million. NOK 4 million for some municipalities. NOK for someone, $8 million. kr for someone else. This way a non-public sector is governed. The governmentisation and centralisation of tax collection are a striking example of a government that has given up using policy tools to control social development. For the Workers' Party, it is an objective that in the years that come, with digitisation and new technologies, we can have even more public jobs spread out into the country. It's about seeing the possibilities of using the whole country, and not looking for arguments to centralize tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1080	I would like briefly to say something about the municipal tax collection. I noticed that the Council of State Siv Jensen thought it was an example of bureaucracy in which one would reduce, but the municipal tax collection is a very effective and good way to collect taxes. They deliver good results, and they have good dialogue with those to serve. On the other hand, where there is a need to ensure cutbacks, is in the department, in the directorate and in the underlying offices, where one has had a strong growth under today's government. Answers from the Minister of Finance themselves show that for the directorate in a few years there has been a growth of over 2,000. For example, during the day, it was found that in Bane NOR alone, you have a communication department of 50 people. There are more communication people in Bane NOR than there is in First House. According to the information provided, they have 10 more people in their command position on communication. It is in Bane NOR, a state-owned company that is not in competition with anyone else, and where one would think it was relatively easy to describe what their mission is, namely to provide a railway in Norway where one facilitates both the movement of trains and the movement of trains when they are going. There is a need to cut government bureaucracy. Only the government's consultancy was $4.4 billion. kr for the first six months of this year. In addition, there are many other places in the budget we are now going to deal with, there is a need to go through carefully and find the opportunity to cut. One of the areas treated in this setting is the customs duty rate. It is important to contribute to the strengthening of the customs tariff and their budget. They have been in heavy processes in recent years. We have received clear input from their organisations on how demanding it is to maintain and maintain the offer and social mission that the customs office has. When, over the winter, it has once again been the focus, among other things. in the case of problems with non-resident wagon trains, it is important to strengthen their control, both at the border and in Norway. One is constantly looking for new things to be ordered online by both knives and other weapons, including by very young people. We are looking at areas where there is a need to strengthen the customs tariff, strengthen border controls, so that we can contribute to ensuring orderly and serious conditions in Norway. I hope that one in the future can contribute better resources to the customs tariff than is currently the case. Then to the Central Statistical Office. It has been a major theme for the Financial Committee so far in the period. In this context, I should be very careful to say that I believe it is incredibly important to strengthen the units that the Statistical Central Bureau has. We have previously been concerned that the activities they have on Kongsvinger should be maintained within the same framework as before and that that office should not be weakened. That concludes my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1091	This spring's most beautiful adventure is when the payroll commission makes proposals to the Storting to increase the salary for us in here and for the members of the government to ever new heights. This has over time led to a politician's wage that is far more than the salary of most people, whom we're going to represent, we're elected here on the Stortinget. By 2020, the gross wages, if nothing happens, will pass 1 million. kr. People outside the mall think this is unreasonably high. We who are in this room can do something about it. We can step in the brake, and it will Red suggest that the Storting does today. Red has long been alone in proposing cuts in gross wages, but now it seems that other parties are also on the loose. A few weeks ago, the government of the AUF decided that they wanted to cut the gross wages down to 8G, which is the same thing as Red suggested in the Stortinget before the summer – that is, down from 1 million. NOK less than NOK 800000. Shortly after the decision of the AUF, several of the Workers’ Party’s representatives went out to the media with support for the proposal for more moderation in the pay of politicians. These are definitely good beats. We have also noticed that the head of the Center Party, Trygve Battle Violence Vedum, requires a freeze – payroll freeze – for leaders in the state. We put ourselves in the back, not least because Red has suggested it before, and it's just nice that other parties learn from Red. What we hear from the Center Party is good, but quite fresh tones, just recently the Center Party voted against proposals to limit the leadership salaries in the state, when it came to treatment in the Stortinget. But let now the past be past. The important thing is what the parties are in favour of today, and today the parties have the opportunity to let action follow words when the Storting vote on the Red's proposal. The size should decide today that the Wage and Occupational Pensions Commission should present proposals – a plan – for the reduction of gross wages and salaries, and then bind policy-makers' wages to the development of the basic amount of the population's income. In this way, we can ensure that the distance between the elected and the population does not get bigger than it already is today, but on the contrary goes down. I would like to finish by saying to the citizens here in the Chamber that the elected representatives will not become a payroll. When they cut older people's pensions, when they cut their paychecks, when they cut off people who commute to work or live in vomits, they should also have the stomach to stop their own paycheck before the Stortinge bikes millions of income. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1104	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1109	The country's second largest border crossing is in Hedmark. Today we have an important debate on customs and on how we should be able to be safe at borders and transparent. In addition, Kongsvinger customs territory is responsible for 28 out of 62 border crossings, so this is a central area related to what is happening at the border between Norway and Sweden. But there is actually not a single manned customs office in Norway, on the Norwegian side of the border in Hedmark and the Inland. At Magnormo, the second largest border crossing point in Norway, the authorities have left control to Sweden, and they have opened only within normal office hours. There is now a situation where there is no truly effective customs authority on the Norwegian side in large parts of our country, along the long border in Hedmark to Sweden. The Labour Party believes there is a need to strengthen the capacity of border control, and it is very good that the Minister of Finance is here now, because then I want to challenge Minister of Finance Siv Jensen whether the Progress Party and the Government will be with us in the Workers' Party to strengthen border control, so that we can again have crews on the Norwegian side. There is probably no country in history that has had more economic muscles per person than we have in Norway today, but it seems that quite basic services are becoming underfunded and strongly under-prioritised. That is why I am excited about the Minister of Finance's answer as to whether we will receive a strengthening of the customs authorities on the Norwegian side in the coming year, along our long border with Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1137	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, there will be no opportunity for a line change, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1144	The Ministry of Health and Welfare makes proposals in its proposal for changes to the appropriations under some chapters of the State budget for 2019. It is a joint committee which endorses those amendments. The reason I take the floor is that I feel the need to make a comment on one of the comments made by the opposition parties in this matter. There is a comment related to Chapter 762 Primary Health Service, item 61 Prison Health Service, which is proposed to be reduced by 13.7 million. DKK because of the minor consumption of the subsidy scheme for the provision of health services by municipalities to prisoners in prison. On Tuesday, the Committee visited the Civil Ombudsman, who presented a special communication to the United Kingdom on isolation and the lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. Health and care were also an important part of this specific communication, and it turns out that in terms of health provision in prison, it is too poor, not least in mental health. We'll get back to this. The matter is now under consideration in the Control Committee. I only want to say that I agree with the opposition parties when they in this note encourage to make that scheme more familiar, because if that is the way the scheme is not well known, and that is the reason for this minor consumption, something should be done about it. Then we'll probably get back to the special message in an appropriate way at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1159	I just want to comment briefly on the comments we have on the matter. Of course, we are voting for the changes in the state budget. But we have a note about prison services, because we think it is incomprehensible that one reduces this entry by 13.7 million. This is due to a small consumption of the municipal health care system in prison, when we know about the major challenges. We're asking for that premise to be made more familiar. I'm pretty sure there's a big need out there. Then we have a note about government funding attempts on care services, which is suggested to increase by 45 million. kr. It shows – and this is pointed out by the Labour Party, SV and the Centre – that there is a great need for extra resources in the care of the elderly in general. Then the Center Party and SV have a note about the Health Platform, where we point out that any additional needs that arise now, the municipalities and Health Mid-Norway have to cover their own borders. We point out that the government has a responsibility to ensure that the large and ongoing investments in e-health are not enough of a costly ICT investment in the health sector that is failing. We've also pointed that out before. There were the three comments we had, and I wanted to refer from the Stockholm Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1170	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1187	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1194	The Committee has examined proposals for changes to the Special Health Service Act and the Patient and User Rights Act on the legalisation of the system for new methods. There is a cross-political consensus that the priorities of the healthcare service at group level must be based on a balance between resource use, utility and seriousness. A national system was established in 2013 to assess the introduction of new methods in the specialist services, which are currently being practised on the basis of the adopted principle of priority. The Government now proposes to legislate on the three priority principles and to legislate on the responsibility of regional health professionals to ensure that a national system exists to determine the methods offered in the specialist services. It is also suggested that decisions taken in this system should not be considered as decisions under the administrative law, and that the principle that the patient’s right to health care in the specialist services should be confined to those services which the specialist services have the obligation to provide and finance should be laid down. In addition, it is proposed to legislate on the principle that it is not possible to pay for an upgrade of the healthcare provided in the public health service. The ministry thinks this is to legislate today's practice. The Committee has organised an open hearing on the subject of major dissatisfaction with several aspects of New Methods as practised today. Both industry actors, patient organisations and professionals perceive the system as closed and opaque. Patient organisations referred to missing user representations, missing complaint access and missing opening for individual exemptions for decisions at group level and to be poorly adapted medical devices. Several point out that the legalisation of the system for new methods leads to a weakening of patients’ rights. Regional health professionals support the proposal. According to the government and regional health professionals, legal anchoring of new methods will increase the system’s legitimacy. The Committee's recommendation is made by the members of the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, while the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left do not support proposals for the legalisation of the system for new methods. Both the government party and the opposition have put forward proposals for the evaluation of the system of new methods. For the centre party, it is incomprehensible that the government party today both proposes to evaluate the system for new methods and at the same time will vote to legislate the system for new methods. The only credible thing would have been to carry out an evaluation first. The Centre Party will also have a national priority model in the specialist services, but today's model, with the Decision Forum, does not need trust and openness as a priority body is required to have. This has led to a concentration of power for regional health professionals and gives the four regional health managers far too great powers to determine important health priorities in society. We are strongly critical that all priority decisions take place within the framework of healthcare professionals, in closed meetings, without openness on the basis of decision-making. Stating this system today and making an evaluation, as the government party suggests, is not showing a real willingness to change today's system. The centre party fears the consequences of legalising the priority criteria and the system of new methods will have for established patient provision, such as life-saving dialysis. We are also concerned about the consequences of this system and the law will have on the introduction of personalised medicine. This also appeared very clearly in the hearing in the committee. We think it is unclear whether Norway is at risk of breaking international conventions and regulations, and that the proposal would lead to a restriction of patient rights. It is clarified that the right to necessary and defence-related health care does not go beyond the provision that the specialist services are required to provide and finance. Regional healthcare providers are required to decide, through the new methods system, what healthcare is required to provide, and the consequence is that there are decision-making forums. By doing so, I take up the matter of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1215	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1220	Today, the Storting will vote on whether to legislate the decision-making forum for new methods, the system we have rigged for the introduction of new medicines and equipment in Norway. The Labour Party agrees that it is important to have a verifiable legal system for prioritising and introducing new medicines, but we do not want to legislate a system that has obvious shortcomings. And we don't want to legislate a system that isn't evaluated, despite the fact that it was put out of money for this already in the 2015 state budget. In the wake of the Nav scandal, all the departments and underlying departments will now be covered in order to ensure that they have not misinterpreted the EEA legislation. You want to make sure that these mistakes happen again and hit individuals. At the same time, the Stortinget will today vote on a bill that the country's leading health lawyers have warned against may be contrary to our international obligations. On questions from the Workers' Party in the Questionnaire, the Minister for Health replied that the bill according to his assessment is in line with human rights. We're not sure about that. Unfortunately, we are concerned that an adequate investigation of these questions has not been carried out before the bill was sent to Stortinget. An overall committee understands that the proposal that legislates both the three priority criteria and the national system to decide which methods are offered in the specialist health service also means the following – I quote from the vote: ‘The Ministry proposes, inter alia, to legislate that the decisions taken under this system are not to be considered decisions under the Administrative Act.’ So it was an overall committee that had that understanding. Here we know some of the core of the problem. Together with the rest of the opposition, we understand the bill so that it restricts the right to appeal to the decision. Patients are entitled to the necessary health care provided by specialist health services. The concept of ‘necessary health care’ means health care with a sound standard, based on an individual assessment of needs. Therefore, the patient should be assessed in a specific way and the patient’s needs are crucial in the light of a health professional assessment. The problem is that there is no guarantee that this will apply with the proposed legal text — rather the opposite. Decision-making forums make their assessments on the basis of average health effects for an entire group. This means that if you radically separate yourself from your patient group and can show the good effect of a treatment not introduced by the Decision Forum, you will lose the right to be evaluated individually with this bill. The Labour Party will not participate in a legislative process that can help to weaken the patient’s rights, and we will not help to legislate the Decision Forum until it is evaluated. We listen to the Medical Association in this matter, we listen to the patient organisations, and we listen to the industry actors. We are very surprised that the government parties are so determined to push this matter through now, when they also realize that there is a need for an evaluation of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1242	Regardless of the size of the health budget, priorities must always be made – difficult choices about what to do first and what to wait for. The possibilities we have, the vast resources, even in a rich country like Norway. The size has unanimously agreed on the priority criterion to be used for the treatment and medication of patients in Norway. It's the utility criterion, the resource criterion and the seriousness criterion. What we are legislating today is precisely these three priority principles, and that all regional health professionals should have a common system to decide which methods to offer in the specialist services. We don't want it so that one can get a different treatment in Health East than one can get in Health West. We want equivalent services of good quality to all patients regardless of every country they live. At the same time, it is important that the system of new methods be continuously developed and adapted to new needs. Routines and processes in the system must be adapted over time and in line with medical and technological developments. Among other things, the development of personalised medicine means that treatment methods are directed towards increasingly smaller patient groups. There may therefore be a need to further develop efficacy evidence for these groups. So we also decide that the system should be evaluated. The aim of such an evaluation is to ensure proper further development. It is necessary to ensure an equivalent and rapid introduction of new methods in the specialist services. There's come some criticism of the order of things happening in. I would therefore like to stress that the lawfulness of the principle that we should have a common system to decide which methods to offer in the specialist services should not prevent us from making changes. It's not the current system for new methods that we're going to legislate, but the principle that we're going to have a common system. If the evaluation shows that there is a need to change the system for new methods, it is fully possible. Therefore, there is no reason to wait to decide that we should have a common system. There has also been some concern about a number of other issues. I would therefore like to clarify that no patients should lose the right to individual assessment. Patients have their right to necessary and defensive health care. It is absolutely fundamental that if a patient is required to receive medical care from the specialist services, it is initially the health professionals who make an individual assessment and decide what kind of health care to provide. Medical possibilities are increasing and increasing. New knowledge, technology and treatment make it possible to provide an ever-increasing health supply to Norwegian patients. Right? I think that this law-making could help create a good, fair and equally distributed health supply within the resources we have at our disposal. If we wait or do not adopt these legislative proposals, we are concerned that we are going in the opposite direction. There may be greater differences, make it more uninvitable and provide a less equitable health service. We are deeply concerned about such a development, because it could help us to get a two-part healthcare system in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1263	Like the rest of the opposition in the Committee, SV supports the three main criteria underpinning the priorities of today’s decision-making and which are required by law for the new regime. We also share the desire for a national decision-making system, but we see the strong concerns of many of the hearing bodies, including patient and user organisations, and believe they need to be taken seriously. These concerns are brought together in points such as the lack of transparency in the decision-making process and the lack of user involvement. We are also concerned about legislating a system that makes methodological decisions at too large a group level, while otherwise progressing towards an increasingly individualised adaptation of treatment provision. Finally and in this case, we believe it will be wrong to adopt a legislative decision-making forum first and then to carry out an evaluation of the current system, an evaluation that everyone seems to see the need for. The only natural thing will be to get the evaluation first and leave it on the basis of legislation. Therefore, SV will support the proposal to require such an evaluation first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1272	The hearing opinions on this matter testify to a high level of commitment to the development of appropriate health care priorities that balance patient treatment considerations and the need for priority. More than one instance, including: The Medical Association expressed great concern as to whether the legislative proposals would result in an unfortunate consolidation of power in the RHFs, with the exception of sufficient democratic control and transparency and other control mechanisms. Furthermore, the major concern has been that the interpretation of the law will help to weaken patients’ rights by ensuring that the patient’s rights do not go beyond those of the specialist healthcare service in charge of providing and financing. I see the need to make two clarifications based on the Committee's decision-making since the hearing bodies are concerned about how the legislative text should be interpreted. The Committee takes the view that overall decisions on methods should not affect the right to individual assessments and the right to necessary and sound medical treatment. Individual assessments shall be based on individual needs and actual possibilities for diagnosing and treating disease. The Committee takes the view that the individual right to the necessary health care should comply with international obligations. Persons with rare diseases have the same right to adapted medical treatment in accordance with the legal obligations to maintain equality and equivalence. In other words, an offer shall be made to the patient to whom the system for new methods may have refused, if it is required to provide adequate health care. A comprehensive review and evaluation of the whole system of new methods is needed. Medical and professional environments must continue to have a room for action in order to make individual assessments, and it is essential, in fact absolutely essential, to slow down the development of the two-tier healthcare system. Then there has been a discussion about order: lawmaking before evaluation, evaluation before lawmaking. What I'm experiencing is that there's really quite a broad agreement to the principle of having such a forum. And in that case, it is the principle that is being legislated today. How this forum is put together, where it is placed, what is the content – that's not what we are legislating today, but that's the principle. We have to come back to these things after we have had a broad evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1287	New knowledge, technology and treatment make it possible to provide our citizens with an increasingly better provision of health services. It's very positive. At the same time, it means that health professionals and hospital managers must give priority every day. These are often difficult decisions and it is important to support them in these decisions. The legislative proposal under consideration is precisely this. Initially, I would like to comment on the claims that the bill weakens patient and user rights. All patients can today complain to the County if they believe that they are not receiving proper health care in the specialist health service. If a patient has requirements for necessary health care, a health care professional shall make an individual assessment of health care. This is not altered by the legislative proposal. The system of new methods must relate to the right to the required specialist health service. Therefore, the system cannot say no to methods whereby patients without an introduction of the method will be offered irresponsiblely. I have registered that several people claim that the bill is about lawmaking and sementing today's system for new methods. That's not right. The legislative proposal is to legislate for regional health establishments to provide a common system to decide on the methods to be offered in the specialist health service. The legal provision does not specify how such a system should be organised, only that the regions should have a common system. This solution ensures the possibility to further develop and improve today's system. Therefore, the legislative proposal does not regulate either the Decision Forum, the Order Forum or the details of methodological assessments, etc. This means that when the Storting decides today to evaluate the scheme, that evaluation will be very useful for precisely looking at the need for changes and adjustments to those conditions, and none of the changes and adjustments will be impeded by the law adopted today. I notice that the majority of the committee is asking the government to provide an evaluation, and that is, of course, something we are going to follow up. The current system of new methods can be further developed and improved. In some areas, there is significant development potential. Especially with regard to personalised medicine, I am very concerned about further developing and improving the system to handle this development. An evaluation, which we are now being asked to do, will just provide knowledge and information on how the system can best adapt to this development. I record that the minority wants an evaluation before any legalisation. I believe, as I said, that there is no reason to await the evaluation, because I believe that the bill will help to create a good, fair and equally distributed health service within the resources we have available. If we wait or do not accept these legislative proposals, I am concerned that one will go in the opposite direction. There will be greater differences, more unforeseeable and less equitable healthcare. I believe it is essential that we have a common system between health regions that is clear on where the responsibility for taking these decisions lies. The person responsible for the service and for ensuring a professionally sound service offer must also be responsible for the financing and make priorities within the framework of which it is the responsibility of the Stortinge to adopt. Any other alternative that completely or partially distinguishes between the person responsible for the service and the person responsible for the service will be worse than the current organisation. None of these solutions will be sustainable in the long term, nor will any of the solutions comply with the principles of prioritisation to which the Storing has previously agreed. This may in turn mean that the future healthcare, if one goes in that direction, will become worse and threaten the justice of today's system. In order to ensure equivalent access to specialist health services, the EEA has decided that health regions should organise their services in line with the principles of priority. This bill is largely about how to operate this work within the principles previously adopted by the Storing. The difficult issues and decisions do not go away, but it will be more difficult to comply with the principles adopted by the Grand Duchy if no support is given to those who are actually to be included in these decisions on a daily basis, and this legislative proposal provides just such support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1313	The patient organisations and others who have expressed their views on this matter, eleven in total, in addition to the regional health establishments, express massive opposition to the adoption of the decision. These are organisations that are just concerned about justice and what the Council of State is talking about, but they want an evaluation first. Why does the Council of State choose to put aside the views of these organisations and run this forward at the pace that is taking place here?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1321	Firstly, I would like to stress that this case has not been carried out at a high pace. On the contrary, there is a good time, both in the department and in the Stortinget and the committee. I record that they have spent longer time on this matter than is usual in similar cases, and have gone into the matter thoroughly. I find that, both in our consultation round and in the committee hearing, many of the objections are not about the very principle on which we must have a common system to take these decisions. It's very much about how today's system is organized, and the challenges that today's system will face in the future. It's not being regulated today. The majority today adopts an evaluation. This means that in the continuous improvement work of the system itself, we will, of course, also use the evaluation. I have said several times that we, for example. have challenges in making this system better equipped to meet the development of personalised medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1328	We in the Labour Party also think it makes sense to have an evaluation before we establish the principles, sail if much of what Höie says in that way, is right. We think that is an important quality assurance. But there's no majority in the Stortning to remove the Decision Forum, and then I ask again: Why does the government not have time to wait for the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1335	Because I see that the evaluation will not be about the principle itself, which the representative, Mr Hagebakken, is also involved in. The Labour Party also agrees. There is no disagreement in Stortinget that we need to have this. It's important for those who do this job, that we legislate this principle, and it's a follow-up to the prioritisation message that Stortinget has joined. When the objections are about matters that will not be affected by this legislative decision today, there is no reason to push on this in time. This is a need to get legalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1340	If there is something in that evaluation, once it has been carried out, that would mean that there should be greater transparency in these processes, for which we in the Labour Party have agreed, will the Council of State be willing to ensure that there is greater transparency? Today, we find it a democratic problem, in fact, and it is demanding for me, as a health politician, that there is no transparency in these processes, which are very important for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1345	The principle of transparency applies in this area. The challenges are linked to prices and agreements with industry. There, of course, health businesses must comply with the law, and they do. But I've also been very clear that if we are faced with a balance between the principle of always openness and having to say no to new methods for patients because transparency will require so high a price that we can't apply the method, I put the patient first. But I work internationally, and Norway is a country that is now working very hard internationally with other countries – among other things. have been a supporter of a resolution on this in the World Health Organisation – in order to obtain common solutions to ensure greater transparency in this area. That is what we are working for, because what the representative Hagebakken is asking for requires more international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1350	The Minister for Health has dismissed the feedback that lawmaking will prevent the development of and access to personalised medicine. In this setting, a response from the Ministry for Ordered Distribution is shown where the regional health care providers point to some amendments: firstly, that the methods should be introduced temporarily before they can be marketed, and that the type of evidence other than clinical studies should be used as efficacy documentation; secondly, that it should be possible to facilitate the temporary introduction of new methods, with evaluation over time. In its answer, the Council of State is elusive about these provisions, and I would ask the Council of State to guarantee to the Grand Duchy that these provisions will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1357	We are now working all the way to improve the system, both with new methods of personalised medicine and with improvements in health regions to be better prepared in this area. There is nothing in the law passed today that will prevent such development. There are a lot of different challenges that need to be solved in order for us to be even better prepared to use personalised medicine. As far as the representative is concerned, which is very much about the type of agreements you enter into with the industry, there is something that needs to be considered: the type of agreements to be concluded, precisely in order to ensure good access to personalised medicine. And then it has to be balanced against the fact that one does not allow the industry to have free play to make agreements that undermine our ability to operate with priorities, for example. comparisons of methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1364	In the hearing, there was unison criticism of the system of new methods, except from healthcare professionals themselves, who defended it. No one supported it in the Committee's hearing either. And when one reads the proposition, there's little evidence that the government has understood the great distrust that is against the system of new methods out there. When it comes to criticism, page 15 of the Proposition states that ‘criticism can in many ways be an expression of the functioning of our prioritisation system’. I simply have to ask the Council of State: how can it be that there are strong objections to this system out there, and why was there no evaluation at all before the Council of State brought this case to the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1371	Just because what we see in criticism, to a very small extent, is about the very principle that we should have a system where health regions make these kinds of decisions in common. There are some voices that have been critical of it, but among other things. in the hearing on this proposition, there was broad agreement to the principle on which this legislative proposal is concerned. So there's a lot of discussion and criticism about how the system works, so there's also been continuous changes in this and continuous improvements. It should also continue, and the evaluation will provide us with a basis for further changes and improvements. The representative knows very well that there is one thing I am aware of that there are critical voices to, so there are these questions, since I am almost weekly in the media – not least with the representative himself – in discussions on these issues. So of course I've got it with me. Something else would be weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1380	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1387	I don't understand that there have been improvements to the positive with the system of new methods. On the contrary, there has been a deterioration since it was created in 2013, among other things. with an increasing degree of secrecy, both in medical prices and in decision-making. That is why criticism has grown in recent years and confidence has been less. The government will legislate a general provision for the specialist services to align their service provision in line with the priority criteria. We are concerned about the consequences of such a general rule of law for the well-established patient supply. The Medical Association has pointed out, in its hearing, that such a law could mean tightening the potential of clinicians to choose treatment for individual patients by allowing regional healthcare professionals, through their group-level decisions, to influence the treatment options for patients. In any case, there is a great deal of uncertainty as to whether this legislation is so great that it should not be adopted. When you want to legislate the system for new methods, this system lacks the necessary trust. And when it's said that a non-statutory system of today, it's not credible, because it's on the basis of today's system this thing is going to happen. There is nothing from either the Council of State or regional health care agencies that has so far shown that there is a willingness to change the system. It is only now that we have pressed forward an evaluation that should have taken place a long time ago. When the Decision Forum is not to be a public body, it is a controversial interpretation, among other things. Jan Fridthjof Bernt in BT on 5 March said that this is «obviously incorrect». The Ministry of Justice has also stated in its hearing that the proposal: ‘The decisions of the decision-making forum are assigned a new legal function through the link proposed between decisions taken in the system for new methods and the patient’s right to the necessary health care.’ [[...]] One should also not have the ability to complain. It's a development that's very worrying. So for this reason, patients today have an individual right to necessary and defensive health care anchored in the patient and user rights law. It has been defined traditionally, on the basis of expertise, international guidelines, etc. However, with today's amendment of the law, the government party is moving away from the principle when it is decided that the right to the necessary defence-related health care does not extend beyond the provision that the specialist services are obliged to provide and finance. It will be connected directly to decisions taken in New Methods. This is the background of the failure of the Center Party to join. We're worried about cutting patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1408	It becomes a bit like this debate suggests that there is a question of evaluation to be done before or after, but I think there are more disagreements than that. What is very important in the opposition’s proposal is linked to the following: the evaluation has to point out how the system can ensure legitimacy, transparency and transparency, possibly how the system can open up faults in the decision-making forum’s proceedings, possibly how the system can be better adapted to non-medicinal methods. One of the principles that the position, the majority parties, will legislate today is that the decisions are not taken as a decision. That's one of the problems. We're not just legislating a principle that we're going to have a system, we're also legislating a principle that the decisions that this system is making are not to be taken as a decision. That's some reason why we're clarifying it in our proposal, and I think it's important to point out and underline it from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1417	One of the most important tasks that politicians have here in this Chamber is to ensure the legitimacy of our health care community. The hearing in connection with the matter we have now showed a very great scepticism. On the NRK's website we can now read that the Secretary-General of the Cancer Association, Anne Lise Ryel, says the following: ‘We fear that the authorities will introduce a law that can deprive some patients of the right to receive cancer treatment that can save their lives.’ The Cancer Association is not anyone, but we have come to an end in the debate on this matter now, and yet they have such an opinion in the media today. Then the question to Höie and the government parties is: what is the Cancer Association not aware of, since you are so concerned, despite the fact that this matter has been clarified? These are issues that ultimately affect life and death, and we must respect that as politicians. The government has a majority. The government says they'll evaluate the system for new methods. So an evaluation could have been carried out first, before a law was passed, without the Minister of Health having to worry about whether he could continue today's practice. Now, when the government says no to this, my concern is that this will be a new issue that will weaken, not increase, the legitimacy of the health system of the population. I think that's very unfortunate. There was nothing to be feared about doing an evaluation first. It's obvious to the opposition. Unfortunately, the government is making a different choice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1429	I think this is a debate that many will follow, even in retrospect, to examine what is coming of promises from the government and the government parties in this matter. It has been said today that the introduction of these legislative changes should not prevent the development and introduction of personalised medicine. It has been said from the government that changes to the law should not in any way be a restriction on patients' rights, and one should even be able to have a form of complaint. Many follow up on the words that have been said and on what is happening in the future, and we're going to get an evaluation. Finally, I agree with Tuva Moflag's representative that this is not a debate on the order of an evaluation; it is more fundamental than that. I disagree with the government party that a law-making in itself will help to increase the legitimacy of the system. This is what has been used as the main argument itself when reading the proposition, that is, when legislating itself will help to increase the legitimacy of the system. We mean almost the opposite. So until the law doesn't prevent you from changing the system of new methods, when there's such a decisive argument that lawmaking is supposed to guarantee the legitimacy of the system, the law actually seems unnecessary. If the government is wrong about this, we're afraid that a law enforcement will reinforce many of the problems we see in today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1438	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1455	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1462	The Committee has dealt with issues relating to changes in patient and user rights laws on healthcare abroad. The background is that the ESA, the EEA Surveillance Authority, has considered that the patient and user rights law and the prioritisation rule do not comply with the EEA rules. These are the rules on the coverage of health care expenditure abroad. The government believes that today's legislation meets Norway's obligations under the EEA Agreement, but still proposes changes to the regulations on patients' rights to health care abroad. A new provision of patient and user rights laws is proposed to give an overview of the different healthcare coverage schemes abroad. The ESA believes that there is always a need to assess whether the patient can be offered an equally effective treatment in Norway as abroad; the Department therefore proposes to clarify that the right to health care abroad should also be indebted where health care is proven to be more effective. It is proposed that expenditure on health services such as regional health services through the Decision Forum for New Methods has decided not to be included in the specialist services in Norway, is not covered by foreign treatment. This is how the Patient Rights Directive is linked to the system of new methods, which we debated in the previous case. The Boards of Appeal are divided into views on this proposal. The ESA points out that it is unclear to what extent deadline break patients may choose service providers abroad themselves and that this may be contrary to EU law. Therefore, the government proposes a change in the terms of reference – it is proposed to remove referrals to treatment abroad in the provision of time-limits. No patients have received treatment abroad since 2013 as a result of that scheme. We have had a written hearing on this matter. In this case, the government party is also behind the recommendation. At any rate, it is important for the Central Party to stress that there was hardly a plurality on the Stortinget in 2015 that underpinned the inclusion of the Patient Rights Directive. The point is that we cannot maintain restrictions on the freedom to provide services without imposing restrictions on the general interest. This case shows the consequences of the implementation of the Patient Rights Directive and the free movement of patient treatment across borders. We do not want to support this proposal because it is a legal act and an EU adaptation we oppose, but the central party will subsidly vote for the Labour Party and its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1479	I would like to start by addressing the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV in this matter: ‘Prop. 80 L is sent back to the government, which carries out an EEA legal assessment of the consequences of the proposals in the proposal, and then returns to Stortinget with a new legislative proposal.» [[2018–2019]] The working party agrees that it is positive that the legislation on health care abroad is becoming more transparent and clarified, and that it is clarified that the right to health care abroad should also apply in cases where there is evidence of more effectiveness and will provide a better health service for the patient. We note that doubts have been raised about the EEA legal assessments related to the government’s proposal, hearings from the Medical Association, the Association of Advocates and the Association of Blood Cancer. These associations consider that there is a risk that the link to the system of new methods of specialist healthcare will restrict the right of patients to choose similar treatment in EEA countries, following the current regulation on health benefits in the EEA. These hearings are every reason to take seriously, and the Workers' Party does. As we point out in the vote, the Ministry's assessment of these objections is aimed at the potentially unsocial aspects of the non-adoption of the proposal, which we also agree in principle. However, since, in our view, there has not been a maritime EEA legal assessment of the proposal, we believe that this must be done before the Stortinget can adopt the amendment. In this way, a more thorough assessment of the impact of the legislative change must be made than is currently available in the proposal. The social security scandal only grows — unfortunately — and naturally makes us uncertain in the opposition on the matter we are dealing with now about changes in the patient and user rights law, etc., i.e. healthcare abroad. We don't want to make changes to the law until we're absolutely sure that we're on a safe footing. In week 47, as well-known Prime Minister Erna Solberg asked all government councils to review the practice of the EEA legislation by their department in order to identify any errors. So I would strongly encourage the government parties to support our proposal to send the matter back to the government. We think there's a lot of wisdom in that, not least for the government's sail. Finally, I have to say that it is really patient of the Centre Party to be so opposed to the EEA Agreement that they – as they show in this case and in their alternative budget, as I understand it – will actually restrict the rights of people to patients incorporated into the EEA, such as the right to healthcare in the EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1497	The representative Tore Hagebakken has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1502	On 20 September 2017, ESA issued a reasoned statement to Norway that parts of the patient and user rights laws and the prioritisation rules do not comply with the EEA rules. With this proposition, a regulatory framework is clarified, and the laws are made more transparent and available to ensure that the rules are practised consistently and in line with the obligations we have under the EEA Agreement. At the same time, Norwegian patients can only receive reimbursement for treatment abroad for health care equivalent to the health services that the patient would have received from the public in Norway. It is in line with the directive. The different EEA countries have different health systems, and the patients covered in one country may not be paid for by all other nations. That's still the way it will be. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that patients have the right to receive the necessary health care abroad if there is no provision in Norway or if health care abroad is proven to be more effective. This may, for example: relate to health care that provides a better or more secure result or less lasting adverse reactions and distress to the patient. That we have good international cooperation on patient treatment is important – especially for a small country such as Norway. The EEA Agreement allows Norwegian patients to receive hospital treatment free of charge in other EEA countries and to receive reimbursement of treatment costs. In some areas, Norway has a small professional community, and for some patients with rare diseases, the possibility of choosing between different treatment options than those available in Norway will mean a great deal. A clarification that the right to health care abroad should also apply in cases where more effective evidence is available will provide these patients with an even better health supply. The right to health care in other EEA countries reminds us at the same time of the distribution of EEA membership to Norway. Many of us already have a European health insurance card in our wallet. The card is free, and it demonstrates that we have the right to the necessary health care in EEA countries – under the same conditions as the inhabitants of the country. The legislation we have adopted today has been on the agenda since 2018, and a more transparent and transparent regulatory framework will contribute to non-discrimination and precautionary conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1519	Where and from whom you receive health care, according to the opinion of the Advancement Party, is less important as long as the treatment meets the requirements and the standard we expect. Being able to receive treatment in other countries is positive, mainly for the patient himself, who can choose from among offers in other countries, but also because it frees up capacity in Norway, so that others get help faster. International cooperation is important both for patient treatment and for medical development, and especially for those with a rare disease who can choose treatment in areas where we may have a small professional environment in Norway. A clarification that the right to health care abroad should also apply in cases where more effective evidence has been provided will provide these patients with better health care. With the bill, we make the legislation clearer, and we ensure that the rules are consistent and in line with the EEA Agreement. Equal treatment for patients and a transparent regulatory framework are positive and will be achieved through this legislative proposal. Treatment methods provided in Norway shall also be covered by treatment abroad, in the same way that it provides to its own inhabitants. Not all parties think it is positive that people should be able to choose freely. I think that's gross. At the same time, I'm sure that most people agree that it doesn't matter where you get treatment, as long as you get a better life and maybe come back to everyday life, to family life and to work faster than you would have done by waiting for treatment in Norway. Treating sick people is expensive, but it often costs more not to treat them. Ideological clouding against refusing patients the freedom to choose is not a good thing for patients. That is why I am pleased that today's majority of people are going a step further for a better health day and greater freedom of choice for our citizens. Then we just get to live with someone's perception that it's better to let people stand in a health queue than to get health care outside the country's borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1532	I would first like to remind you that SV was also initially against including the patient directive. It was then just the Right, the Advance Party and finally the Left that went in for it. The proposal we are discussing today is about the consequences of the implementation of the directive, which simply means ensuring the free flow of cross-border patient treatment. Norway has been criticised by ESA for the lack of consistency between our national legislation and the EEA rules. We are positive, as the statement shows, that health care legislation abroad is becoming more tidy than before. We are also positive that it is stated that the right to health care abroad should also apply where it is proven to be more effective and will provide patients with better health care. In principle, we also agree that methods that our own system has decided not to introduce should not be covered. But we're still shaken by the Nav scandal, and SV wants to insist that we have to be careful about things like this, so that we don't end up in new possible legal scandals. More consultation approaches, including: from the Law Association, the Medical Association and the Blood Cancer Association, warns that we can also have a conflict between the new law following the changes and the EEA rights resulting from the Patient Directive. It was the government that wanted the directive to be introduced. We were against it. But once that is done, we cannot take lightly the legal obligations that result from it. Therefore, together with the Workers' Party, SV will propose to return the proposal in order to have an EEA legal assessment of the impact of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1545	I have noticed that the members of the Workers' Party and SV believe that a more thorough assessment of the EEA legal consequences of the bill should be made, that the proposition should be returned, and that the government should come back with a new bill. I disagree with that. It will not help patients' health services to postpone these changes. The changes in the laws will provide patients and users with a better overview of the different arrangements for the right to cover healthcare abroad. In addition, it clarifies the right to receive healthcare abroad which is ‘documented more effectively’ than that offered by the public in Norway. Nor do I agree that the link to new methods would be contrary to EEA law. On the contrary. The proposal that services which the system for new methods has refused to introduce should not be covered by the right to require coverage would simply contribute to compliance with EEA law. Patients will have equivalent and fair access to specialist healthcare, regardless of whether they are receiving healthcare abroad or in Norway. Precaution will also contribute to the clarity and predictability of both patients and healthcare. Such a link to the system of new methods will make it clear to patients and health regions which treatment services are covered or not, possibly to which indications and patient groups the method should be available. These decisions are published on a continuous basis and are generally available on the websites of the system for new methods. In other words, it would be easy for patients to examine whether the healthcare they consider to receive in another country falls outside the scheme. The demarcation is objective, clear, transparent and precise and therefore also meets the requirements of EEA law. In my view, it would also be inconsistent for a treatment offer decided not to be introduced in Norway to be partially covered if the planned treatment is received in another country. The link should therefore also apply to the coverage under the legislation implementing the Patient Rights Directive. It would be unsocial if Norway contributed to covering parts of the type of treatment received in other EEA countries under the Directive. As a result, only patients who can afford to cover part of the treatment in another EEA country will receive financial support from Norway to receive such treatment abroad. In my opinion, this bill will both help to strengthen the patient’s health service and make it clearer that Norwegian law is in fact in line with EEA law. There is therefore no reason to postpone this either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1565	The proposition states that the right to treatment abroad should now also apply to treatment which has been proven to be more effective than the health care offered in Norway, but at the same time that one should not be required to have methods that have been rejected in the new methods system. This clearly sends out some conflicting signals, we believe, and the proposition also admits that this issue is not at the forefront of case-law with regard to EEA law. So first, has the Council of State learned something from the social security scandal, and is the Council of State absolutely certain that the government and government parties are doing here today, are not in breach of EEA law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1571	I believe that what we have presented here, and which the Stortinge hopefully decides, helps to ensure that we are in line with EEA law. This case helps to clear up ambiguity in the legislation, such as: ESA has pointed out. That is also why it is important to implement these changes now and not delay them. That would in the case of changes we would, among other things, postpone. have been informed by ESA that they should have done so. Of course, the representative points to something that I understand doesn't sound logical, but that nevertheless makes sense, because here it's about two different arrangements. It's actually the two main arrangements that are now remaining, which make it easier for the patient as well. The simple thing is that there is a treatment offered in Norway, one has the right to have that treatment covered in another EEA country. But sometimes you have the right to receive treatments abroad that are not offered in Norway, because they are more effective and we do not have a good enough alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1578	I didn't get extremely much wiser by the so-called logical explanation, but now let it lie. I wonder if the government is starting to get a little bit of arrogance in its behavior, maybe because they've been sitting for so long, because in the last case we're dealing with, they didn't even hear the hearing bodies, except the regional health companies. In this case, the Medical Association, the Association of Lawyers and the Association of Blood Cancer, which therefore believes there is a risk that the connection to the system of new methods could restrict the right of patients to choose similar treatment in the EEA country. Does it begin to become a little arrogant in government? I would like to ask the Council of State whether he is not concerned about what the three associations mentioned here express clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1583	No, there is no arrogance – on the contrary. We are quite humble to the feedback we have received that we need to correct the legislation. I got a little poor time when I was going to try to explain to the representative the two different arrangements. Today, there are three possible arrangements for treatment abroad. It is if you have a breach of deadlines, it is if you use the Patient Directive and receive treatment after equivalent treatment abroad, and it is if you are judged in the treatment system abroad that Norway does not have an adequate treatment but can be offered abroad. The first system is now being removed because it has actually been taken care of by the Patient Directive. This gives patients the easy way to understand that if there is a treatment offered in Norway, they have the right to have that treatment covered in another EEA country. In some cases, healthcare in Norway will tell the patient that we do not have treatment for this in Norway, but there is treatment in other countries, both EEA countries and non-EEA countries. Then you can also cover it, but it will be a separate case for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1588	I assume that the Medical Association, the Law Association, the Blood Cancer Association and, in particular, the Patient Association will – I kept saying – have its own best, will the patient's best when they write as they do in their hearings, and say what they say. Is there anything in what has come from that edge, as the Council of State thinks it's worth noting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1593	Yes, there has been consultation on one bill in advance of the case being submitted to Stortinget. Then it's always the case that there are recordings that we take note of, or that we follow to check if the recording is correct, and how it's assessed by the department and the professionals we have there. These points of view are then assessed, and then a conclusion has to be drawn. It's not evidence that you don't hear, that you don't necessarily do the same thing, or that you do the same thing as those who give the message say. Sometimes it is simply that someone has different opinions, and in this case, our assessment is probably different from that of part of the hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1598	On 20 September 2017, ESA provided a reasoned report to Norway where they considered that today’s legislation does not comply with the EEA rules. That's the background for this case. According to the Ministry's assessment, which we can read about in the proposition, the government believes that today's legislation meets Norway's obligations under the EEA Agreement. So here, there's a disagreement about the EEA legal system. So today, the Council of State states that there is no need for an EEA legal assessment and that the Stortinget should not vote in favour of the proposal of the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party. How can he say that when he admits that Norway is not in agreement with ESA in principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1607	I must first ask the representative Toppe to end with what has become a tradition, that of putting words in my mouth. I have never said that there is no need for an EEA legal assessment in this case, and I hope the representative regrets that she is trying to put words in my mouth almost in every debate we have. She also did so in the previous debate, in her closing statement. It is just the circumstances that have been assessed in this case, before the case was submitted to Stortinget, and that is much of the basis for the matter. We believe that the corrections we're making here make us safer that we're in EEA law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1614	I have been told that I do not read matters and do not see myself in things, so I have clearly misunderstood this matter. But when you read the proposition, at least I see the government writing that they disagree with ESA. They write: ‘After the Ministry’s assessment, the current legislation on the recovery of health care expenditure abroad meets Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement’. If there's a mistake in the proposition, you might say it here, but I understand that the changes that are coming, they are making a mistake and not because the government thinks that there was a need to make changes to meet the obligations under the EEA Agreement. So my question again is how one then can be sure that the government has now done what it needs to do so that they will not get new demands from ESA in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1626	It was not the same question, it was another question, and I record that the representative did not comment that she put words in my mouth, so I expect that she also accepted what I said, that it should end with. What the representative is now asking is whether I have realized that this is in line with EEA law, and we believe that it is. The review requested by the representative in his first question is precisely what has been done in advance of this matter. So it's absolutely right that at one of the points ESA has pointed out, we have a different assessment from what ESA has, but this bill corrects some of the conditions that ESA has pointed out, especially related to the ambiguity of the legislation, which we now believe we've cleared up, and so we're answering some of what ESA has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1635	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1642	I got a small reply from the Labour Party when they had their article, saying that we are so thoughtful of EEA opponents that we do not support the Patient Rights Directive either. We stand for what we have done in this matter. We have never been to introduce the Patient Rights Directive in Norway, and there are good reasons for that. I think it is particularly true that the Labour Party is against free treatment choices in Norway, but for free treatment choices within the EEA. It means nothing more than that one is too free to move patients and patient care across borders, and that it is in a way a goal in itself that patient care should be part of the free flow of goods and services. For me and the Center Party, it is important that health services are not treated as other goods and services, but that one has a national control over supply. It was also a long time before the Patient Rights Directive was introduced in other countries, for there were many countries that feared that one would lose national control of their health supply. When a inclusion of the Patient Rights Directive in 2015, not only the Center Party voted against it. The Labour Party voted against, the Christian People's Party voted against, and SV voted against. Neither was the Left for this when the Committee gave its opinion, but they turned to the Storing Hall. There was hardly a possible multiple in 2015, and as the Storting has been put together today, there is actually a plurality against the introduction of the Patient Rights Directive in the way that the Solberg government did in 2015, when one took away the requirement for prior authorisation. That's the explanation of where the Center Party stands today, and that's the explanation of why we don't see it as our task to change a law in an EEA adaptation. We're going to get more of these things. In addition, when there is strong doubt about the EEA legal basis in this case, as the Labour Party and SV have pointed out, I found it problematic for the parties who voted in favour of this, and we are at least some in opposition that there is no reason to adopt this case. We will support the proposal from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party to have an EEA legal assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1656	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1669	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1681	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 5-7, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and Red proposed no. 8 and 9, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 10-13, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposed no. 14–16, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 17, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 18-20, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 14 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government in the context of the State budget for 2021 to present a proposal for a progressive inheritance tax with a base deduction of 5 million. crowns and at the lowest rate of 10 pst, with gradual escalating to 50 pst. taxes on inheritance over 100 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1728	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1733	Then I'll have to take it up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1745	Proposal No. 15 and 16, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to transfer all or part of the Tax Fund scheme into an Environmental Funding Scheme.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to change the basic charge on drinking packaging for plastic bottles to an environmental charge on the use of materials graduated according to the amount of recycled or renewable material.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1769	Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to determine how a progressive inheritance tax with high deductions can be designed. The results of the investigation shall be presented together with the draft State budget for 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1785	Proposal No. 11-13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for reporting inheritance settlements to the tax authorities so that the collection and publication of statistics on the inheritance received can be reintroduced as it was made until 2014.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a levy on the use of peat where the costs of climate change are made visible.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine how the tax-free system can be abolished, while respecting the interests of regional airports.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1814	Proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the tax and reporting legislation on benefits in kind and return to the Stortinget with a new proposal to take account of the broad tax base, reduce red tape and simplify reporting.’ The Labour Party has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1831	Proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting in the context of the revised National Budget 2020 with a proposal to reintroduce tax freedom for reasonable staff discounts’.» The Labour Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1848	Proposal No. 5-7, from the Center Party and Red. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking the government to adjust the capitalisation rate of the property tax on hydroelectric power plants from 4,5 to 3 p.m. with effect from 2020 until a new calculation system for that rate is in place.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2021 with a predictable calculation system for the capitalisation rate of the property tax on hydropower plants, which takes account of market interest rates and ensures that, under current conditions, interest rates will be lower than current interest rates.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in the context of the revised national budget for 2020 with a proposal to repeal the maximum and minimum rules on property taxes on power plants.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1875	Proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests an evaluation of the higher depreciation rate for electric cars and an assessment of higher depreciation rates for low and zero-emission ships on short sea shipping, as well as an assessment of how this can be done in practice.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1893	Proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that tax exemptions for benefits in kind which are retained as pensioners, such as: free cards from train and bus companies may be reintroduced.» The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1910	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for unsubstantiated changes in the VAT law to ensure that health professionals must include VAT if they carry out alternative treatment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks whether any of the members of the organisations currently registered in the Alternative Treatment Register can be considered to provide health care and come back to Stortinget with a bill allowing them to obtain exemption from the VAT Code.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1934	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2020, to investigate and submit measures on a revenue-neutral reversal of the financial tax which eliminates the increase in the employer’s contribution.’.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1951	Proposal No. 18 and 19, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to come back, at the latest, in the context of the revised national budget 2020, with an assessment of the tax burden on undertakings with emission allowances charged a reduced rate of CO 2 taxation on natural gas and possible measures to improve their regulatory environment.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the tax burden on non-quota industries with power needs below 20 MW and possible measures to improve their framework conditions by the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2020.’ The Labour Party and Red have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e1978	Proposal No. 20, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue previous tax-free practices in respect of benefits in kind which have been paid as a pensioner or family to former employees.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal. The working party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9443	The President refers to the corrections the President of the case did well in the debate, and that is the recommendation for these corrections that are now being voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9457	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9462	Same here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9467	Then we take it up again, it's the fastest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9532	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party. In the course of the debate, proposal No. 4 converted into a transmission proposal. The suggestion sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure that employees of the Tax Administration who are given a disproportionately long route as a result of the closure of the local tax collection offices are given the opportunity to work from their current place of work, if the current employer makes this possible.’ The President will propose that the proposal be sent to the Government without a motion of censure. - It's a note. To reduce the number of votes, the President will propose a voting order that can be agreed upon. The main positions of the different batches are clearly shown in the comments in the options, and reference is also made to Input. 2 S for 2019-2020 and Innst. 3 S for 2019-2020. It will in practice mean that when we have voted on minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the recommendation in the option. The President will stress the obvious premise that when parties accept such a voting policy, this should not be used against a game at a later date. No objection has come to this, and it will be dealt with like this. Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests the appropriate return to the Storting with an explanation of the EEA legal space relating to the taxation of persons residing in other EEA countries who receive income from work, pensions, disability benefits or activities in Norway’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how to ensure equal treatment between listed and unlisted companies in the wealth tax, i.e. their valuation does not differ systematically in favour of unlisted companies as it is in today’s system.’;» The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9570	President! It is wrong that I should support the proposal No. 1 and 2. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9575	Then we vote to propose no. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e9587	Proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in dialogue with employees’ organisations, municipalities and other interested parties to review the transfer of tax collection from the municipalities to the Skatetaten and to come back to the Stortinget with a new proposal at the latest in the context of the revised National Budget 2020, which ensures local competence, the proceeds from the tax collection and strengthens the work against the crime of working life.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e11180	It's going to go above the heading of the laws and laws at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e11191	Law decisions will be passed until second processing is carried out in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e11203	During the debate, Mr Björn Moxnes presented a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to amend the guidelines of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission. The changes shall ensure that the Wage and Wage Commission submits proposals to lower the remuneration and then bind it to the evolution of the basic amount of social security rather than to the development of government directors’ salaries.’.» [[G]] The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e14403	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e14415	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e14420	Then we'll have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16260	During the debate, Kjersti Toppe has presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall evaluation of the system for new methods and, in the light of the evaluation, to present a separate case to the Stortinget with proposals for changes to the system. The evaluation has to point out, inter alia, how the system can ensure legitimacy, transparency and transparency, how the system can open up appeals for errors in the proceedings of the Decision Forum, how the system can be better adapted to non-medicinal approaches, how the system can be better suited to the introduction of personalised medicine, and possible waiver mechanisms that ensure an individual assessment for patients that are significantly different from the majority of patients in the patient group.’» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16352	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16365	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16379	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting. It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16393	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16412	During the debate, Tore Hagebakken has presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 80 L is sent back to the government, which carries out an EEA legal assessment of the consequences of the proposals in the proposal, and then returns to Stortinget with a new bill’. [[2018–2019]] The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16490	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16502	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16517	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-13.ana.ud50e16531	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
