ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e36	A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative of Ingarill Olsen from 18 November to 15 December, and on the leave of the representative of Eirik Sivertsen from 19 to 20 November to attend the Conference of Members of the Nordic Dimension, and meetings of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Bodø by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative of Åsunn Lyngedal from 18 to 20 November, and by the Group of the European People's Party on the Per Olaf Lundtägen permit on 19 and 20 November, both in order to take part in meetings of the delegation to the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Brussels; by the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen from 18 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy 19-20. November For Finnmark: Steinar Karlstrøm 19 November–13. December For Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 19-20. ==References====External links== November For Telemark: Olav Urbø 19 November and until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e103	The Group of the Socialist Left has been informed that, from 1 October to 2 December, the parental leave granted to the representative of Kari Elisabeth Kaski is hereby amended to run until 25 November 2019. – This message is taken into account. From the first alternate of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, there is an application for exemption from meeting under the mandate of the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski from 18 November to 22 November, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The meeting alternate for Oslo, Solveig Skagvoll Foss, is hereby convened to meet also from 18 November to 21 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e130	The President requests that the representatives be seated on case No. 3, Unit, has been processed. The President shall state that case No. 3 will be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e165	Thank you for the opportunity to have an inter-pelling debate on further strengthening child protection and to make child protection services the best possible way to help families and children in need of help. Much is good in child protection, but we have challenges on several teams. Children’s rights and care for children have a long history and tradition in Norway. In 1915, the Stortinget adopted six laws that made Norway a priority country in relation to children’s rights. The laws ensured legal equality for children born outside of marriage and gave inheritance to children outside marriage. It was the Castberg children's elves. What were the children's laws? They consisted of six different areas. It was as mentioned the law on children whose parents have not made marriages with each other, the law on changes in inheritance law, the law on changes in property relationships between spouses, the law on changes in divorce law, the law on parents and spouses and the law on child care. Johan Castberg was a pastor, but he also had his supporters, and most importantly was probably his sister-in-law, Katti Anker Møller. She was known as the most prominent woman of her time and was especially concerned with the responsibility of society towards mothers and children. So we have a proud story to take care of. Today, young people are active and involved in children’s rights, and today young people are also the strongest spokespersons of children’s protection. Children themselves have organised themselves and share their experiences, including: via the National Association for Children’s Protection and Children’s Protection Professionals. Of course, we also have the Children’s Ombudsman, who is the spokesperson of the children and is to ensure that children are heard and that their rights are respected. Child protection is designed to ensure that children and young people do not live under conditions that could harm their health and development. There is a need for children to get help and care in a timely manner, and we need a good and robust child protection. According to the Central Statistical Office, there were 57 000 child protection messages in 2018, and there were a total of 55,000 relief measures for children and families. The government has given high priority to child protection, including: with a competence strategy, child protection reform, work on new child protection legislation, strengthening of the foster home area and a closer follow-up to municipal child protection. Resources used for child protection in the municipality and state are increasing. But there are still major challenges. Daily is the critical media release on child protection issues. There has been a great deal of use of exclusive measures, which many children will experience as a serious and interventional measure. The European Court of Human Rights has had several child protection cases for treatment. Foster parents also report little and no follow-up in the municipalities. There are children who don't feel to be heard. There are children who don't get the help at school that they need. There are children who do not have the opportunity to complain about the service they actually receive in the municipalities. Parents with a migrant background also report that they are anxious about child protection and refuse to have dialogue and contact with it, precisely because child protection has the power to deprive them of care for the child. It's bad to read this, but we have to straighten out such relationships. We have spent a lot of time discussing the organisation of institutional child protection, but we also need to look at the content and quality of the provision at all levels of child protection. We know that there is a great variety of child protection services in municipalities. The National Audit Office’s report points to many municipalities where there is a lack of assistance in child protection for children and families who need it. They also point out that the offer is far too slightly differentiated and that the problems are greatest in the small municipalities. Among other things, the smallest municipalities have the highest proportion of care transfers, i.e. that parents are deprived of care and children must be taken into foster homes or institutions. How will the Council of State work to improve this? The municipalities have now been ordered to provide day-to-day care, they have been given more jobs, and they have also begun to give priority to child protection. We know that many capable and committed people work in child protection, and we must not forget that child protection is doing a lot of good, but the municipalities have to take child protection more seriously. Often, child protection is an almost administrative regulation, and politicians take little part in what is happening in child protection in one’s own municipality. Many child-restraints are organised in intercommunal companies with one host municipality that operates child protection, and it can be very easy for municipalities that are part of this intercommunal company to leave this to others with child-restraint, and one forgets what child-rescue in one's own municipality actually looks like. It is almost up to rare people that child protection is on the agenda of political meetings, interviews and questions to rapporteurs. I have to confess a sin myself: I have a long seagoing time as a municipal politician, but the times when child protection was discussed, it was usually in tertiary reports and annual reports, which almost described how much money was spent on child protection. The quality, as we're used to discussing health care and school, was rarely mentioned. Now this is a while ago, so I hope things have improved. Now, new child protection laws have been out for consultation, and I am very pleased with a proposal in the law that the municipalities – and that means each municipality – have to report annually to their politicians about the state of child protection, i.e. more than how many dollars you spend on child protection. This means that politicians are given greater ownership of child protection, and they can also give better priority in the municipal everyday life where the money is going. In fact, we have to have municipal politicians burning for child protection. We must have local politicians who have knowledge. They must have knowledge of the number of cases, the number of employees, how to carry out preventive work, and the need for expertise in their municipality in the area of child protection. Can the Council of State say whether this proposal can be implemented in new child protection laws any earlier than planned? I would have been happy for an answer there. I sometimes get enquiries – ‘sometimes’ was perhaps an understatement, I get to say I get a lot of requests – that we actually have to abolish the entire child protection system. It is often from people who are frustrated by child protection. It may be from grandparents who are not allowed to meet a child for whom care has been taken by the State. The child can then be in a foster home or in an institution. The sister also tells us that they are separated by care placements and that they lose contact with each other. Parents also complain that they are not allowed to visit children for whom the state has taken care of them. At the same time, we also know that some children who are in institutions or foster parents do not want their visits. How will the Council of State work to ensure that children who have been taken over by the State remain in contact with their families? We know that a good childhood lasts its life, but we also know that we have challenges, as I have mentioned, and these are especially children living in families with little care, where there are addictions or mental challenges. How will the Council of State work on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e201	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing very important questions and challenges. Childcare is one of the most important welfare services we have, and the children and families receiving assistance from child protection are among the most vulnerable in our society. My assessment is that child protection is facing major challenges. We know that there are quality challenges in several municipalities. We also have challenges in the provision of young people who are unable to live at home and who have to move to foster homes or institutions. It's serious. All children and young people will get the help they need, when they need it. Norway has received a judgment from the European Court of Human Rights in four child protection cases. Norway has been convicted in two and released in two. In total, 34 cases are communicated with Norway. Because of the challenges we see, and because child protection has great power and authority to intervene in the lives and mistakes of families can have major consequences, strengthening child protection has a high priority for me and for the government. We are working on a whole new child protection law to improve the quality and legal security of children and parents. In particular, I want to draw out five important steps that we do. First of all, we are implementing a historical commitment to competence. Professional environments with a high level of competence are a prerequisite for having child protection with a high level of legal certainty. Good manning and competence are essential to the success of helping those young people who experience care failure. I take seriously that many child-restraint workers report a high workload. So I noticed that several people have raised the issue of earmarking funds and staffing standards. However, since 2013 and until 2018 there have been 1,300 more child protection employees. Most of these have arrived because the municipalities have prioritised child protection. That's good. My message is therefore that the municipalities must have the opportunity to take the responsibility they have. We are developing a national quality system related to the child protection system, which will contribute to better documentation, simpler working processes and professional support for good judgement and decision-making. Better working processes give more time to follow up on the individual child and family. Good surveys and investigations are central to children and families getting the help they need when they need it. The sooner we get in, the better it is for the kids. Good family support also requires the ability to relate and cultural sensitivity. These are key areas of competence. Second, we're close to child protection. The people and Bufdir follow the municipalities closely, and we have established targeted measures to support the municipalities that are struggling the most. We are developing cooperation models to identify children in the field of child protection for mental and physical health problems in the past and to better adapt their health care follow-up. Thirdly, we are working to strengthen local authorities' prevention and early intervention opportunities. It is the government's goal that young people and families who are struggling should get the help they need before challenges in everyday life grow into serious problems. Prevention of care failure is a major issue of family support, and more services need to contribute to the discovery and assistance of vulnerable children and young people. In the proposal for a new Children’s Protection Act, I consider instructing municipalities to coordinate the prevention work. They must see the offer of children and young people in context, and the local authorities themselves must adopt a plan for this work. Through the reform of child protection, we are going to make changes to the funding mechanisms of child protection so that municipalities are more able to give priority to prevention, and we are working on developing methods of family guidance that are better adapted to the young and the families of child protection. This shall be tested next year. So the interpellant asked when a claim for a state report in the local government could come. As the interpellant pointed out, it is proposed in the new Child Protection Act that was sent out to the hearing – something that I experience has received a lot of support. The fact that local politicians have knowledge of child protection is essential for their rightful priority and for their raising the level of child protection. I am therefore in favour of this proposal, and although the new Child Protection Act does not come until the spring of 2021, it may be possible to present it already in the spring. Fourthly, we are also reviewing the provision of institutions, the framework for the use of private actors in child protection, and we are implementing a health effort to provide better and more holistic services to children in child protection. Unfortunately, several cases have been identified where young people living in institutions have not received the assistance they are entitled to. I'm taking that very seriously. Children at child protection institutions are particularly vulnerable, and many face complex and complex challenges. Many have one or more mental disorders. It is therefore important that these young people experience safety, understanding, continuity and predictability. This requires close and close cooperation between the municipality, Buffetat, healthcare and individual institutions. We work continuously and knowledge-based to improve the quality of child protection institutions. Among other things, we have launched a research project to provide a comprehensive review of today's institutional services and their management, both by government and private suppliers. This will provide a basis for assessing the need for more fundamental changes in institutional child protection. It is an important work that I will follow closely. The fifth main act we're working on is a quality promise for the follow-up of foster homes. Child protection shall be based on resources available around the child and involve the child’s family and network. Young people living outside the home must be able to maintain contact with siblings. At the same time, we need to raise the quality of the offer for those kids who can't live at home. This year we have launched a initiative to strengthen the follow-up of foster homes by municipalities, so that more foster homes get the support they need. Better follow-up could affect recruitment. We have the legal obligation of municipalities to assess foster homes in families and networks, which I think will be the best for many children and families who need help for a shorter or longer period. The NOU from the foster home committee includes, inter alia: several proposals to make the framework conditions of foster homes better and not least more predictable. We are now working on these proposals. The legal certainty of children and parents was strengthened by legislative changes in 2018. We introduced a right to child protection measures and clarified the children’s right to participation. We reinforced the requirements for follow-up of both children and parents. Child protection services shall facilitate the return of care for the child by parents if the child’s concern is not against it. Proposals for new child protection laws have recently been consulted. Through the new law, we put forward more measures to strengthen legal certainty further and better dialogue and cooperation with both children and families. Children must be able to explain themselves as freely as possible. At the same time, it is important that child protection cooperates well with parents, so that they understand what is happening, and why it happens. This may contribute to the reduction of potential conflicts. This is important, not least because it's good for the kids, who need peace around their own situation. We have good experience from attempts at a conversation process in the county, which is a process that often makes it easier for families and child protection to agree on solutions. This is something I want to introduce as a fixed system. Child protection issues always involve difficult assessments and dilemmas. In some cases, intervention is necessary to protect the child. I attach great importance to thorough human rights discussions in the work on the new Child Protection Act and will therefore present proposals for a new law in the spring of 2021. We have challenges in child protection. That's why we're now working on major changes. But we should not forget that a lot is going in the right direction. Capacity is strengthened. Compliance with key legal requirements has improved significantly in recent years. But this is no sleeping cushion for us. The government will continue to give priority to strengthening the provision of vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e237	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It shows that we're on the right track, but it also shows that we have a lot of work to do until we're in the goal. I would like to thank the Council of State in particular for signaling that it is possible to oblige the municipalities to have a state report already in the spring. I'll see if it actually will be realized. There is one thing I would like to address in particular, and there are so-called exclusive measures – as VG in a series of articles has described in detail – and how children experience this. Exclusive measures are defined as requiring children living in a dwelling or institution to live in isolation from other children in the dwelling or institution. The only people who live with the child 24 hours a day are adult employees who take turns. This is an intervention, and studies show that children feel isolated and controlled. Others have also said that they do not go to school. In 2016, the child protection authorities were criticised for the use of exclusive measures. The authorities replied that the practice was to be tightened up. Personally, I have a zero vision of exclusive measures, but I notice that professionals believe that in some cases there is a need for exclusive measures. They have described that many children live too long with extensive care failure. For some, this leads to so much stress that it affects their ability to engage in relationships with others and to benefit from care. They also need maintenance and care that is far from what you see as normal. Often they also need treatment in the field of mental health protection. Some of the most struggling young people have a complex picture with a lot of bad experiences and a serious mental disorder. It's about young people who are in danger of killing someone, in the worst case, or harming themselves. And some are simply given up by society. How will the Council of State respond to the need for proper use of so-called exclusive measures, and what can be done to treat children with such major needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e250	I fully agree that most children are best off with other children and young people. The general rule, therefore, is that children and young people who have to live in an institution for a shorter or longer period of time should live with others. So exclusive measures should only be used when the child’s best interests are at stake. We have had close contact with Bufdir about the use of exclusive measures this year, and I have been confirmed a much more restrictive use of exclusive measures. Bufdir states that only five new exclusive measures have been launched in 2019 and that the number of exclusive measures has declined from 118 in the third quarter of 2018 to 83 in the second quarter of 2019. At the same time, we need to recognise that some children and young people face challenges that make it difficult to provide housing with others who are sound both for themselves and for the other children. A well-organised exclusive measure may then be necessary for a period of time. However, exclusive measures must be used with caution and only when professional assessments find that this is best for the child. Children living alone have the same rights as other children living in a child protection institution. This means that as far as possible, they will go to school with peers; they will be able to take part in leisure activities, have visits and move freely. The rules on quality assurance, recognition and supervision and the rules on the rights of children in institutions also apply to the exclusive measures. There are rules setting a framework for the use of coercion. All these rules contribute to ensuring the legal certainty of children. Both the Minister of Health and I are committed to strengthening cooperation between child protection and health care and to improving the mental health care of children in child protection. We have therefore launched our own initiative to strengthen children’s access to health monitoring and care for children. For example, cooperation between the child protection institutions and the BUP has been strengthened to provide the children with the assistance they need. We have established two institutions for children and young people in need of simultaneous assistance from child protection and from mental health protection. But we need more knowledge about how we best meet the needs of those children in child protection who have the most complex and complex challenges. I have therefore started an overall review of the protection of theinstitutional child, which includes only measures. This will provide us with a basis for assessing whether there is a need for more extensive changes in institutional child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e267	The representative, Kari Henriksen, is our main spokesman in this area and comes back with an article on the Labour Party's policy, but let me start with the following: both the Council of State and I have children of about the same age. They're the most important thing in life. It's for all parents, it's for all families. So we know that there are parents who don't do the care job well enough, they need help -- sometimes extensive help, and sometimes the child has to get away from the parents. But one might find it difficult to imagine something more intrusive in a person's life than being deprived of his child. We have extremely strict rules in the society for the legal security of property if your car is taken, or your house, or your security, even if it is a little unclear there at the moment, but in the case of your child, we are experiencing a lack of legal certainty. In 2008, the Ministry said they were concerned about the number of emergency decisions. In 2008, there were 945 emergency placements. Nine years later, in 2017, we were up in 1800. Then it became a political discussion, and suddenly the number of emergency decisions falls by over 200. Now the Council of State says that single positions have suddenly stopped about completely because it has become a political and media attention around it. I have to say that scares me, because if there were professional, thorough, insightful legal certainty assessments on the basis, newspaper headlines and political discussions should not affect this at all. If we suddenly heard that the number of cancer operations went up or down by 20, 50 or 200 because there was political attention around it, we would have been startled. And it's this thing that's so serious that we in the Storting should get a real deal about it. Now the Council of State is talking about a law to be passed in the spring of 2021. That means we're talking about maybe a couple-three thousand more emergency decisions, a lot more individual placements, a lot more kids who aren't being followed up in a good way. I understand that it's very demanding to work in child protection, and we've heard about things, we know about things where you've intervened too late, where everyone is sitting on top of the chair, saving lives to make a mistake. But then this institution must have the political backing by having a full review of the whole system: are there enough resources? Are the experts good enough? Are the structures good enough? Are experts largely independent from the Child Welfare Service? Is the denominator working? Are the lawyers able to help the parents who get into child protection? Now we have seen from the Nav cases how people have been hired in without even knowing EEA law, and that the courts do not know EEA law. Now the Council of States itself shows that we have over 30 cases in the European Court of Human Rights. Well, if it turns out that we have not been able to follow the European rules that apply to Norway either, it is a more serious area than if you have lost your insurance: one has lost your child. That the Council of State is not really sitting every day and is terrified that he – and I have been the Council of State for nearly ten years – should be the one who in two years' time has to answer why he didn't do anything right away, when it's case by case for the European Court of Human Rights, I don't understand – that you take that chance. The expert psychologists Ragnhild Pettersen, Monica Flock and Ester Solberg wrote in an article in The Daily News of July 3, 2019 that in some cases it is actually the emergency decision and the repositioning that has created the most trauma for the child. Is it a responsibility the Council of States is comfortable to sit with? So we know for sure that there are cases where child protection is not done enough, where children should have had more help, where their parents should have had more help. It is touching and it is great that the interpellant takes up the matter, and the council is pleased that you interrupt and respond, interrupt again and respond again, but I assume that the government parties have such good contact that they can talk about this at any time. This is not good enough for Stortinget. We need to have a case – either in the form of a statement or a communication, but preferably a statement – because then the Committee and the political parties will have to deal with this hugely important area now. Something else will be failing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e284	Let's take the opportunity we actually have today to discuss this important topic. Discussing child-restraint makes many people feel weak. Such a debate affects children and young people who have experience in the service, families who are in the middle of it or who are affected by other means, employees with both legs in it each day, and politicians at different levels, who are responsible for the offer given. I feel that we all have a common goal of raising the quality of child protection. At the same time, there must be no criticism of all those who work in the field and who give of themselves and their competence every day. A few weeks ago, the NRK revealed a closed Instagram network where girls share stories of self-harm and attempted suicide. Young girls in different situations experience that they have no one to talk to about the personal and difficult things. As a society, it is in many ways a failure statement when closed networks on the Internet become what you seek in terms of security, proximity and confidentiality. 500 girls have found their way into the network in a few years, and 15 of the girls have taken their own lives. It's just tragic. I bring this into the debate because NRK's investigation has revealed that several girls are introduced to this network while they are under public care, for example. in institutions. The NRK says that treatment staff confirm that they have heard about the network, but do not talk to the youth about it because it feels too private. That tells me, among other things. that we must continue to bet on enhancing competence in the field. Several environments are concerned with peer skills — the ability to meet someone who has experienced what you are in the middle of life, the ability to meet someone who understands the challenges you live with. Even I met Torbjørn Mohn-Haugen, who is an experience consultant, after looking up in the NRK. In 2018 he was assigned to this year's experience consultant, and we had an instructive conversation that I hope can be the beginning of something more to enhance this competence into the services. The challenge we're debating is how we can make our child protection better. The answers are many, but of course we cannot ignore the measures that the government has either taken or that are in process. The changes in the division of responsibilities between the State and the municipality as a result of the child protection reform will enter into force in 2022, and municipalities will be given increased responsibilities and greater freedom to choose what measures they consider to be in the best interests of the children. The government has launched a historic promise of competence in municipal child protection. It's set at over 90 million. in 2020, at the same time as proposals for new skills requirements in the field of child protection. You are also looking at and developing Bachelor's and Master's programmes in the field. A research mission has been launched, on which the Council of State was involved, to provide a comprehensive review of today’s institutional services and their management, what is provided by both private and public providers. This will provide a basis for assessing the need for more fundamental reforms in the institutional part of child protection. The aim of the new Child Protection Act will be to put children’s needs at the centre and contribute to increased prevention and early intervention. We need to build on the resources available around the child, and facilitate the involvement of the child's family and networks to a much greater extent. In sum, these works respond to much of the representative Trond Giske requested, but of course, thoroughness must be taken into account for the work to be done. At the same time, it is important to consider instruments and measures that help to reduce the need for child protection services. We need to provide good low-threshold services, preferably in cooperation with volunteering, and in many different policy areas we need to help solve more challenges before it becomes a young person with a need for repair. The government is, as I've been in, running several good processes, but we also have to think about new things for this field. I think we must together dry to turn more stones than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e312	For many years, the Progress Party has been very committed to issues relating to child protection. From the time that former child-restraint representative John Alvheim made his ten points on how to deal with child-restraint issues, we have thought that child-restraint needs to be improved. It can just as easily be established as last time: Child protection does a lot of good, but child protection also makes mistakes that have huge consequences for both parents and children in the long run. And we see families torn in fillets rather than being helped. There are both judgments against Norway and pending child protection cases before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The whole of 34 cases have been decided by the Court of Justice against Norway. It should be completely unnecessary for things not to be solved in a reasonable way until they actually end up there. Child protection shall be of support and assistance to those who do not deal with their own family life. In Alvheim’s time, it was essentially a matter of ensuring that child protection did not interfere with the wrong measures and take-over of care in cases where other measures would be better. Today, we see a much more nuanced picture of how child protection can – and must – improve. We see that the discussion about child protection is sometimes marked by completely different aspects than how child protection can actually be better. Among other things, we see that parts of the opposition place no sense in resisting private providers of child protection services in front of children’s needs for good services. It is an example of ideological blindness and the overrun of individuals who need the help of society. What is actually going to help families and children, on the other hand, is a child protection that is getting better at finding and delivering proper measures for each family. How can we expect child protection to succeed? Perhaps there is a need for legislative changes, another type of education and a change in thinking? But, above all, child protection needs to change in order to improve both for children and parents as well as for grandparents who lose contact with their children and grandchildren. Then we have to have a good law, good rules, good organisation, good competence and a child protection with a high level of confidence in the population. Such trust must be earned, reprocessed and continuously maintained so that people feel that they can rely on child protection. Today, there are actually many people who don't. People have to trust that child protection does a good job. This applies to parents, children and grandparents — but also to neighbors, teachers and anyone else who knows the child and the family. The exposure to child protection is enormous in Norway. Some are fighting their own battle for the wrong they feel they are suffering when one or more children are taken from them. Others are working towards the whole system on behalf of others. A person who fights against child protection for parents and children who are separated by child protection decisions is Marius Reikerås. His enforceable battle has brought a lot to the surface, even a sentence against Norway in the human rights court in Strasbourg. In a country like Norway, this should not be necessary, but it is only to establish that it is unusually important that there are people like Reikerås, who challenge the system, the closedness, the culture and the way of thinking. As I said, child protection does a lot of good. But child protection also makes a lot of mistakes. And it's when an error is tried to cover up with a new fault, that the problems like to start. In addition, there is never any willingness in child protection to actually admit that mistakes were made, errors were assessed and wrong decisions were made. It happens so never. This is precisely why the government is working to update the Child Protection Act. It's necessary. As a deposit representative, I receive many requests for individual cases. It's impossible to go into them all. We also get a lot of good input from organisations working on such questions. We're taking all of this with us to make the best possible law. I should like to talk about some kind of zero vision for child protection in Norway. I would have preferred to talk about a zero vision for the need for child protection. Reality is enough, unfortunately, that there will remain a need for child protection in the future. The goal must be for parents and children to live together as much as possible. It is the role of child protection to provide assistance at an early stage in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e331	Norway, as a nation, has a proud tradition of taking care of and protecting children, including: with the introduction of the World's First Children's Protection Act, the Wraith Act, in 1896, and the establishment of the World's First Children's Ombudsman in 1981. Let me underline that in today’s Norway there is a great deal of child protection that helps and supports families and children with challenges, but there is also poor child protection, which can do great harm. The aim must be to have high-quality and reliable child protection in the population. But there we are not now – really not. The media are still revealing very serious issues where child protection fails vulnerable children. It's heartbreaking to read. At the same time, several large and good public investigations and supervisory reports have also pointed to too many errors and too many failures in the system. Internationally, Norwegian child protection has been criticised by the United Nations Children’s Committee, which is concerned that children may have been separated from their parents without having been in the best interests of the child, and concerns about the use of coercion, separation of siblings, that there are significant regional differences in child protection practices and inadequate communication between child protection services and families. The fact that the European Court of Human Rights has brought 34 child protection cases against Norway is undoubtedly alarming and says that it can definitely be discussed whether our system is running, especially since we have already been convicted in two of the cases. The legal security of child-restraint children is now in doubt. The child-responsive staff are desperately asking both me and all the other politicians, not least the prime minister of the Great Heirs campaign, for help to get more time and to get more colleagues to do their job properly. The children’s ombudsman and the National Children’s Protection Association are also among those who believe that too little resources are spent on child protection posts in relation to the needs that exist. Working there is demanding, as shown by the fact that too many people stop working because of work pressure and because of a lot of tension. There's a lot of substitutions in the crew, with all that leads to negative effects. Recruitment of foster homes is also a serious problem that may appear to be growing. Only in Telemark, where I come from, this week, 43 children need foster homes – 43 vulnerable children. How can we say with our heart that the state takes seriously the responsibility of taking care of children when we have obviously not made sure that there are enough, and not least good enough, offers ready for these children? We obviously have a great job to do with improving the conditions of foster homes so that more people take on this important and difficult job. We also have a lot of work to do to ensure that children and young people have good enough mental health care. Since the government has reduced the provision of health services, it is the child protection service that is facing new challenges as a result — not least when public authorities cannot even identify the mental and physical challenges that children face when child protection takes over care. It is often solved by what VG has recently revealed, that it is buying expensive exclusive measures from large commercial players, actors who are even allowed to participate and decide that these children will receive exactly the offer they themselves sell to child protection. There's a lot of air here. Unfortunately, there are also a lot of other places that smell. In fact, there's too much going on, and in a way that doesn't give me enough reassurance over today's interpellation debate, because it's clear that the government council responsible believes it's not as bad as we in the Central Party think it is. It is not a recognition that much more is needed in order to achieve a level playing field than is envisaged in the forthcoming child protection reform, which was adopted many years ago — in the adjustments made to the Child Protection Act and in the work being done to increase the skills of employees. This isn't enough, it has to be stronger. It says that the committee chairman, Mr. Örmen Johnsen, from the government party, is raising this interpellation debate today, because she is also very concerned, as I experience what she is saying. I know that everyone in this room is concerned that child protection is going to be better, including those who don't feel that there is as much crisis as I think it is. I think the work that's going on can improve things, but I also think it's a kind of scattered fire extinguisher. We do not have a complete overview of everything that is not in place, and it is not so strange, because my experience after working politically with child protection has been that this is not a field that has been politically elevated – at the same time, it has been very silent and taboo. There are now so many aspects of child protection that we have to do more with than the responsible state council and the department has planned. It will cost in the future – not only for the children concerned, but also for their families and those who will work in this field. They need more measures than what was launched today. We need faster action, and we need a much larger, thorough review of the entire field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e352	Very many young people get good help in child protection. Let's never forget that. We have a much better system to protect young people and provide care for those who need it than much of the rest of the world. We are forced to protect the good of child protection, especially now that child protection is under attack from several sources. Some of these attacks are not about improving child protection so that they can help more children, but rather about building up the protection that child protection should be – attack that will move the focus from a child protection service. But there is no doubt that child protection is in a critical state, that the service to help them is perhaps the most vulnerable in our society, completely systematically neglected, lacking resources and understaffed. There are messages from those who add to the front, those who meet the kids daily, and who want to find out what help they need. Hundreds of people added to the municipal child protection service have been warning in the Heirs campaign for almost a year that they have too few people working to have time to give the kids the help they need both their demands and their needs. An investigation shows that 80 pst. They say they have too little time to do their part of the job well enough. This is profoundly serious: monthly alarm messages, poor follow-up of foster homes, children who are not listened to when their own lives are involved, because the Child Welfare Service does not have enough time to follow up. State Council The Ruppstad turns his back on them when he doesn't even want to keep an account of the child protection situation, but at least as bad it is that he also turns his back on the kids. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State: when he now stands here and says that things are right, that the government is fixing up, where does he have that information? Does he talk to the kids? Or did he talk to those added to the first line? He can't have done that, because the kids themselves say that the message is a completely different one. There are omens, among others. that young people do not even tell about the most important thing about child protection. And when child protection doesn't know the most important thing in the lives of the kids, how can the Council of State stand here and be so sure? No, this is not holding. When they add and the kids tell them that they are losing unimaginable fate, when the children's environment is shocked at how verbally treating the services of the most vulnerable are, then it just doesn't think that the government council doesn't even care about the situation. This bounds the interpellation debate with a question where the state council, fluently, boasts of the state of child protection, is far from good enough when we have such a critical situation in the service to protect the most vulnerable young in society. Neither do we accept this interference as a replacement for a proper settlement in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e367	I'm worried too. I'm worried because of the issues that have been rolled up in the media about exclusive measures, I'm worried about all the issues that go with the European Court of Human Rights, I'm worried about the individual child that it's about, who is experiencing fraud, first from their closest caregivers, then from the system – over and over again. I'm worried that under the care of the child, the children don't get the health care they need either physically or mentally, and I'm worried about the lack of foster homes. But first of all, I'm concerned because it's about individual ships, and I also know the responsibility that we all in this room should be aware of because we're involved and affect it. It is also demanding with a subject such as this where the interests are so strong, and where the lives and individual fates, regardless of what you do, will be strongly affected. There will always be conflicts just in such a field. It's about the lives of individuals, and then the responsibility for the individuals who work in child protection is even greater, because it requires competence, resources and love to help children who for some reason do not have it well at home. Child protection is important for the care of children who are at risk of care failure and for the timely provision of child protection, they must have sufficient resources to provide a variety of adapted assistance measures. All measures must be aimed at improving the care and follow-up of the child in accordance with its individual needs, since it is the child to be given first. In this debate and in the answers from the Council of State, I do not feel that the government says that you are satisfied with the state as it is, but I feel a recognition that there is a lot to do here, and that the Council of State refers to concrete measures that the government is actually doing. This is a process. There's a lot to do, but we're in the process, and I'm glad that the government is going to make proposals for new child protection laws, and that they've signaled that the goal is to increase the quality of child protection and strengthen the rights of the children who need it the most. These are important priorities. It is good that, for example, we have been clear that the right to post-closure should be extended to 25 years. We stand in front of – and in the middle of – a historic lift of the municipal child protection system. When we talk about staffing, it is also a fact that from 2013 to 2018 there have been 1,300 more employees in municipal child protection, and from 2017 to 2018 the staff increased by about 200 new case handlers. This is a higher annual job growth than under the red-green government. At the same time, the SSB figures show that there was no growth in cases in 2018, and that is also good news for the capacity, although I also clearly see the notifications that there are still clear needs. But what worries me most in this debate is that too often the answers become too simple. For example, when problems are identified with a commercial company that has provided a service to child protection, the answer is fast to ban all private actors rather than to discuss what requirements should be made. And that is where the debate should be put: how to ensure competence, how to ensure quality, and how to ensure the everyday life of those children who actually deserve and need our help, that they get what they have right to? It is the children that are most important, and it is these children that deserve our attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e381	Just because safe growth for children should be such an important political priority, I am pleased that there is a high level of commitment to child protection both from both a public and a political point of view. Unfortunately, however, there are major challenges to child protection, and although there may be some disagreement about the challenges to be addressed first, there is a broad consensus that child protection needs to be prioritised and raised, and we should do so through the efforts that are now underway. We need to strengthen child protection, and we need to make sure that the children involved, and their families, get better help. Child protection deals with difficult issues, and the consequences of boredom can be serious. It is a great responsibility at many levels to ensure that the quality and legal security of the individual child and their family are good. The purpose of the Child Protection Act is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive necessary and proper assistance and care in a timely manner. A challenge in child protection today is that the auxiliaries are not adequately coordinated. The need for mental health, care, family therapy, health station services, Nav and child protection is not adequately coordinated. This results in many families getting help from the wrong instance. I believe that, therefore, we need to look more closely at this complex field from an overall perspective. The extent and nature of child protection challenges vary greatly, so it is important that we listen to those who have shoes and that we have confidence that local politicians know their municipality's child protection best. In order to ensure good child protection throughout the country, it is essential that municipalities take greater ownership of their local child protection services. In view of this, it is necessary to clarify the expectations of the municipalities in the proposal for a new Children’s Protection Act. Local authorities must be given a clearer responsibility to prevent care failure and to coordinate the provision of municipal services to all children in their municipality. The municipality must also be required to coordinate prevention better for the future, and the provision of children and young people must be looked at in an overall context. The Local Council must be given responsibility and take ownership of adopting a plan of how the services are to cooperate locally, on the basis of the reports they are provided by the Child Protection Service. We need to have a clear framework, expectations, more interaction and, not least, an increased focus on skills with targeted measures to improve the provision of child protection and to ensure the legal certainty of children. Municipalities have a very important role to play in the coming period, with the efforts we are going to make in the field of child protection. I would therefore like to thank the Council of State for its good information so far, but also encourage him to inform a little more about the capacity development of municipal child protection, and about how he has planned to follow up the challenges of some municipalities' ownership of their local child protection in the announced proposal for a new child protection law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e396	Children in child protection need a government that does not underestimate the severity of the concerns. 34 Norwegian child protection cases for treatment in EMD, October 2019 in Dagbladet. ‘This boy has experienced the abuse and care failure of public child protection, and there is a need for criminal prosecution. Now I am sorry that no one takes responsibility." Lawyer Saar Pedersen in VG November 2019. ‘Discoveries in the media of brutal insensibility in individual cases are excused as unfortunate exceptions.’ Gro Hillestad Thune, human rights lawyer, delivered in September 2019. “Too many children are taken from their parents.” Psychologist Willy-Tore Mørch and Magne Raundalen, March 2019 in Dagbladet. «The lack of professional understanding of child protection weakens legal certainty.» Kari Killén in Aftenposten August 2018. ‘A large number of children are exposed to gross insensibility and abuse in today’s child protection.’ More than 100 professionals reported concerns to the government. Evening post 10 June 2015. Lawyer Thea Totland points to the arbitrary use of experts, lack of control of them, and bias in access to competences and resources. The Heierna campaign illustrates the everyday lives of dubious employees. This is not about municipalities or employees who do not do their job. They have given notice – lack of people, high turnovers, dramatic for children who need continuity, trust and predictability. It is about political abdication of responsibilities for delegated tasks. It's about what the Children's Ombudsman said at the hearing. Yeah, it's a crisis, a governance crisis. Norway, as a country, has not taken on board the complexity of child protection at municipal and state level and is not managed well enough. Children are hit hard when differences increase, children are hit hard when the nearest ones fail, and children are hit hardest when we fail together. The Prime Minister wants more success stories in child protection, but the government signals in the sixth year: wait and see. And what do we see? The government has stopped new design posts for municipal child protection, the number of anxiety messages has increased, staff are charged with demanding work tasks and more people are brought into new law, good and qualified adults are throwing the cards because they feel that they are not having time for the children, are in a quandary, are being harassed and threatened, child protection is increasingly being criticised internationally, and money is being wasted on commercial companies, while ideal actors are disappearing. Children, parents and professionals need solutions quickly. The children are the ones who have really bad time. The government has received many commissioned and very critical reports, such as NOU 2016: 16, NOU 2017: 12 Failure and betrayal, dated 22 June 2017, and the Riksrevisions Report Document 3:8 for 2017-2018. Everyone's serious enough separately, but in the context, it's critical. Health surveillance reports and government-ordered reports may also be placed in that pile. And as if this were not enough – the Children’s Ombudsman had one case on the agenda during the hearing of the next year’s government budget: more money must be put into earmarked positions in municipal child protection. The Minister may not push this great and intrusive exercise of powers down to the municipalities and child protection employees without himself taking responsibility for enabling them to carry out the task. This is where the government fails. It is nothing but a great discharge from political leadership. In this debate we have heard representatives after representatives go to the pulpit and tell about failure – gross and serious failure, and serious concerns. I believe that everyone in this room is experiencing it. But when it comes to solutions, it's the same procedure as last year, except that I listened carefully when the Tage Pettersen from the Right said he wants even more stones to be turned. There we are on the whole line, and we should have had a statement that could both point to the stones and get lifted even more stones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e438	There is a serious situation in Norwegian child protection, but we have a government that does not take the situation seriously. We have children who experience betrayal and betrayal, where in some cases the state is the most failing. We have children who go to bed when they are in childcare care after the state has taken over parental responsibility. The opposition on the Stortinget has asked for a complete settlement from the government in this matter, but the Council of State is refusing. I think it's a paradox that in this interpellation debate, the government party is certain that one should make it compulsory for the municipalities to have a state report every year, while the government itself does not want a state report in the Stortinget. It says a little bit, and I think it's very critical. A few years ago, Stortinget changed the purpose paragraph of the Children's Protection Act. Then we got the word "love" in the purpose paragraph. The law should help children and young people to meet with security, love and understanding. There was a great debate we had in Stortinget that time, and I believe the president was there and had posts. So we know that after that there have been many examples that this doesn't happen. Glassianta was not met with love. ‘Guten on the air mattress’ was not met with love and understanding. They were faced with a system of failure at all stages: massive coercion, massive displacements, auxiliaries, unilateral measures, child and youth psychiatry failure, police assaults. After the case of the "glazed girl", the government promised that no children would experience the same thing as her. Among other things, the supervisory report pointed out that no action should be taken if the child did not want to. Since then use has been fivefold. It's okay that the use has fallen this year, but this is a legitimate room, and the question is how this could happen. One thing that has emerged is that this can happen because the option to the most ill and most damaged children does not exist in the public. In the VG we could read that Director Trommald in Bufdir himself said that the reason for the increase in the use of one measure was that child and youth psychiatry was built up, and that one no longer imprisoned children. I thought it was a serious reading. Imagine that one stands and says directly that child protection, in the form of one-off measures, takes care of children who should have been treated in child and youth psychiatry, or that one takes care of children who were previously in prison, and then one incarculates them in a way in child protection instead. I think it's a disaster, and I can't be clear enough: this is just as much about a crisis in child and youth psychiatry as about a crisis in child protection. Many of the children receiving unworthy care today should have received the necessary health care in the paediatric psychiatry. It does not help to repeatedly tell about the two institutions created for children in need of both health care and child protection services. This applies to so many, many, many more children than the few who get help from these institutions. It's pretty much everybody's. So we know that childhood and youth psychiatry is being built up. The latest reports from the Health Directorate show that there is a reduction of daily capacity in children’s and youth psychiatry. Those who needed these daily places in childhood and youth psychiatry were just the children who are currently in child care and who may be referred to as a single measure or to other measures. Lack of health care in child protection has not taken this government seriously, and one should have had a large build-up of child and youth psychiatry, not the dwindling of daily capacity that is now taking place. This also seems to continue. It is still the case that some children need protection and close contact with adults. That's not what we disagree with. But what has happened and came out is actually unworthy. Finally, that the Council of State will not do any good for the situation in Norwegian child protection is his choice. But I want to say that it is also his responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e457	I am pleased to see that the Council recognises that child protection has challenges related to the quality of services provided in the different municipalities. Furthermore, it is important that the Council of State monitors child protection in small municipalities and in Sami municipalities. We know that there have been some major challenges to both child protection and other municipal services in, for example: Tysfjord municipality, which was seriously known to the public through VG's coverage of the case. As seafaring from Porsanger it is easy to feel sympathy for the matter from Tysfjord. The type case is probably not unique, although in Tysfjord it was an extreme case. This has happened before in many Sami towns. It is therefore important that the linguistic, cultural and religious background of children be safeguarded by the protection of children and that it is a fundamental principle. I am pleased that the Council of State has launched a greater level of competence in municipal child protection. These include: establish a new further training on minority competences in the field of child protection at the Science College in Stavanger, and develop a further training offer on the work of child protection with children and families with a minority background, including indigenous peoples and national minorities. It's a step in the right direction. In North Norway, there are mostly small ratios and long distances. We have very many capable child-restraint workers, but often conditions become so small that it will be difficult to give everyone a hapless trial. Nor is it easy to transfer child protection services to, for example: the neighbouring municipality through intermunicipal cooperation. Two municipalities, however, have completed this, are Berlevåg and Båtsfjord. They've switched child-restraint services. Berlevåg deals with the things of Båtsfjord and vice versa – despite distance. In Oslo, where there is a t-track distance between various child-rescue offices, there are 9 miles between the mountain-crossing towns, which are often winter-bound. I also hope that, in the future, the Council of State will look at the challenges of distances and small social conditions in North Norway, because it is important that enlargement and government play a role with the municipalities in the districts of this matter. Can you learn from how Båtsfjord and Berlevåg deal with their child protection issues together? Will this be skills that are heavily sought in other district municipalities? Probably, not just in North Norway, but throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e470	I would like to reiterate my thanks for being briefed by the Council of State. It is a large field of expertise to take care of, and I am glad that the Council of State points out that it has to be worked heavily on several teams. I would also like to thank the co-representatives for a good debate. I noticed that the representative Giske believes I have a touching concern for child protection. I guess that was a little bit ironic. I can assure you that I will take child protection with the greatest seriousness. There's no quick fix in child protection. It has to be worked over time. Coordination, as we have heard, must be improved in the area of prevention services, and not least we must have a higher level of competence at all levels. I know that we are working on developing master's offerings in the field of child protection. I think it can give a good promise not least to gain research competence, so that we do the right things based on knowledge and research. Institutional child protection has been said to be reviewed by the Council of State. That's right. At the same time, we need good, safe institutions, because some children actually have to be in institutions. It's a concern that we don't have enough foster homes. The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen said there was a big problem in Telemark. I think there is a problem in several places, and I look forward to how we can work on recruiting more good families to take care of children who need to be taken care of for shorter or longer periods. I also notice this with sole measures and the Minister's response to it. I am pleased with the two institutions that are now to take care of children. This is about mental health, and it's about people with special skills. It is then the specialist health service that needs to deal with as big and complex problems as this shows. Once again, I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e489	I would like to thank you for the speeches and the debate. I just want to clarify what I said very clearly in my post, that there are major challenges in child protection, and I'm taking that very seriously. And with all due respect, I wouldn't have started so many changes if I thought everything was perfect today, so my claim is that the next two years will happen more than at least very, very long. That's because we need to strengthen child protection, and that's what I – and the government – really care about. Then it's interesting with the contributions from the Workers' Party, where one is kind of so clear that the Council of State must act now. Yes, I'm acting now, and I've explained so many processes that are in full swing, and that come in the next few years. But then one at the same time says, we need to have a full review, because there's so much that needs to be mapped. Yes, we could have done so far, but everyone knows how a full review would go, and how long it would take. So either one has to make changes now, or one has to have a full commission, as many have suggested. But we know the challenge picture quite well. Now, as I said, we have an overall review of institutional child protection and the use of private actors. It will identify the need to make changes. On the foster home side, there is a separate NOU that is in full swing with the follow-up as well as that we have measures for both recruitment and follow-up of foster homes. Several have explained the historical expertise that is in progress, and we are looking at whether to expand, both that effort and to set different demands, which are in full swing. The manned situation has been explained, which is an important part. The child protection reform has been adopted in a roll-out and is important for the municipalities of the prevention bit. The Swedish Children’s Protection Act comes in 2021, the health effort – and I take these EMD cases very seriously. I want to say that when we in the department go through things, it's important to learn from them, but also because those things are there, we have an extra focus on human rights in the new Child Protection Act. So I'm taking it very seriously that there are challenges, and I'm working with the full force to solve it. So the representative asked Lerbreuk how I can say that there are also positive things happening in child protection. It's because it's strengthened capacity in the last year. There have been 200 more case handlers, there is no increase in cases, there have been 1,300 more employees since 2013. That's good, the municipalities are doing a job. The deadlines for the investigations have decreased from 17 p.m. in 2013 to 7 pst. now – still a way to go, but a positive improvement. The foster homes that get good enough follow-up have risen from 68 pst. in 2013 to 90 pst. Now. That's good, and there's been fewer emergency positions. So there are big challenges. There are complex issues that we have to deal with, and then we have to work together in more calm layers than just following all the newspaper recipes that come up on the theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e500	The debate on substance is closed. All right, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e518	Lake cultivation has the potential to become a significant coastal industry. But it assumes that the industry succeeds in providing the right framework conditions and instruments along the whole value chain. Harvesting further into the food chain, using unused species in macroalgae, seaweed cultivation provide new opportunities for employment and increased value creation. Sintef has estimated a production of 20 million. tonnes by 2050, with an annual value of 40 billion. kr only in Norway. This estimate is often highlighted when discussing: What will Norway be investing in in the future? Today it is grown approx. 200 tons of tea, so it's a long way to go before we're near the visions of the future of macroalgae production. Several entrepreneurs across the coast have invested and established companies that grow tea. The aim is to build a sustainable industry and create profitable jobs along the coast. The companies are very positive about cooperation and are affiliated to the Norwegian Association of Tarea growers, which is a business network for those who grow seaweed, where the market segment is mainly consumption. The cluster consists of those that have progressed most in the development of a forward-looking take-up industry. Enterprises have acquired good knowledge over the last four to eight years of production, harvesting, processing and not least of the market. The industry is now at a critical point, where government intervention is essential for businesses to cope with their problems and lay the foundation for a new Norwegian marine industry. In the value chain of the tare industry, companies have started to gain good experience in production, but there is still a great gap in knowledge. The production of seaweed is biology, and new challenges are emerging. There is a need for new knowledge and more research. The food industry depends on the local availability of knowledge and competences, and the development of competence should therefore be undertaken in Norway. Today, the company that delivers traces and cuttings to the companies is located in the Netherlands. If this company goes bankrupt, it will be very critical for production. We need to build skills on this important field, which is the tar’s ‘weeds and cephalopods’. In the growth phase at sea, good localities and clean water are important. This year, all farms experienced worse growth than in previous years, without the full knowledge of the cause. It's a very critical point for the industry. Businesses have now entered into more exciting agreements with market players, and products are available in different shops and as commodities. The industry must be able to deliver now that the market interest is increasing. In order for industry to be competitive on a European scale, production needs to be more efficient in order to reduce costs. New technologies and adapted harvesting equipment are part of the development of a new industry. Some testing is carried out, but a scaling up of the industry requires more efficient harvesting, logistics for reception and good processing facilities, among others. drying plant. When the tar is taken out of its familiar element, which is the seawater, the degradation begins quickly, so the tar has to be processed quickly. Today, companies borrow processing lines from the seafood industry to sort, quality check and further process the tar. The tare is currently mainly frozen or dried, then processed on to the finished product. Continuous work is being done on product development in human consumption, feed development, both for fish and animals, and other applications for seaweed. The tar is actually our rainforest, and it's five to six times more effective than the rainforest per tonne. Large scale tare cultivation may also be relevant for CO2 capture. This is also being researched, and it can be exciting in the future. Why do we have to eat tea? Tare is a good source of fiber, minerals, antioxidants such as selenium, and vitamins. Tae is itself a flavour enhancer, as it contains glutamate, which gives the characteristic taste, also called the fifth taste. Food security is important for businesses. Tare has very varying iodine content, depending on the nature and the processing method. The industry has had good dialogue with the Food Authority, and they have agreed on a labelling scheme for the seaweed products in terms of iodine and recommended daily intake. It is sugar tar and butare grown in Norway. By analysing different species, the choice of these two fell, as they have very low concentrations of e.g. inorganic arsenic and other heavy metals. Several of the companies have developed finished products for the Norwegian market. These are mainly spices and panning products, as well as in the snack segment as nuts with seaweed. There's an innumerable number of possibilities. Seas contain 50-70 pst. less sodium than the traditional table salt and is a good salt substitute, and can act well as an ingredient and flavour enhancer in soups, sauces, fish cakes, bread, broths, fish products, etc. This requires more work and cooperation with other industrial actors in Norway. Europe is an interesting market. In 2018 and 2019, the Norwegian Association of Tara growers worked a lot with France, Germany, Spain, Poland and Russia. They feel a growing interest in seaweed as a product and an ingredient. The European market for algae in 2013 was around 3000 tonnes wet weight and 472 tonnes dry weight, with an expected increase of 7-10 pst. annual. This means that in 2020 the market will thus be around 900 to 1000 tonnes of dry matter only. Seaweed for food is a forward-looking nourishment. We need to change our diet and eat more sustainably. Tare also has several market segments — cosmetics, animal feed, which is mentioned, and biorefining. Human consumption is the most exciting at present for Norwegian businesses. The feedback from actors in Europe is that the quality of Norwegian cultivation is very good. Norway has come a long way in the cultivation of seaweed. In Europe, R & D cultivation is the most common, but more companies are on the way to establishing commercial cultivation. There is a lot of cultivation in the United States and Canada and in New Zealand. Norway is currently in the front line, and the tar species thrive along our cold coast. Here Norway can take the lead in the cultivation of sugar and butares and take an important position in Europe. One of the challenges is price, as I said. This is an industry at an early stage, with much unsolved, and therefore production costs are too high at that time. The price of the product is relatively higher than that of Asia, which is the other major supplier. The industry knows that the price in the long term will fall, but at this stage it is critical for businesses to meet the challenges of start-up. As mentioned earlier, the tare industry sees the need to build up Norwegian competence to produce cuttings and spores in Norway. The quality of what is released into the sea on rope is critical. More knowledge of quality is needed. Enterprises feel that the legislation for the authorisation of cultivation is adapted to the fish farming industry and calls for legislation on the dieting industry, so that the application process becomes more effective. There is a great risk for businesses today to set up and grow tea. Even in good location studies, production may be minimal or much less than planned. The industry needs risk relief schemes during the start-up phase. Actors in Europe demand large volumes at a lower price than companies can deliver today. Rising production is also associated with a high risk for the individual enterprise, and the industry needs help to get up to a level that gives economies of scale. So the question is, how will the Council of State create good framework conditions for the oceanic cultivation to become a new marine nutrition and get the necessary drag help to overcome the critical phase that they are in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e560	The coastal population in Norway has long used seaweed for different purposes. The tare has been used as food, animal feed and fertilisers for soil improvement. Sanctioning, drying and burning of seaweed took place as an activity along the coast in several places, including: France, England, Scotland and Norway from the late 1600s to the 1930s. The ash was first used in the manufacture of glass and the side for the manufacture of iodine. We also have a more modern and industrialized tare industry, which is based on the harvesting of wild bigger for the production of alginates, as an example. On the Norwegian coast more than 150 000 tonnes are harvested annually. The company DuPont BioPolymer AS currently dominates this activity in Norway. The turnover from the total harvest is well over 1 billion. kr. In the last decade, there has been a significant interest in growing, i.e. aquaculture, seaweed. The Ministry received the first application in 2012. As of today, we have granted permits for tare cultivation on about 70 sites to about 50 different companies, from Rogaland in the south to Finnmark in the north. I share the interpellant Grungs optimism for this industry. The cultivation of seaweed has a significant potential, and we must ensure that it triggers. I think we're doing great. We will facilitate the cultivation of seaweed in Norway. We shall do so by building up sound knowledge through research, developing legislation to ensure that it takes all relevant considerations into account, as well as documenting and ensuring food safety. Possibilities for using seaweed have been addressed in several broad policy documents, including: in the Government’s Long-term Plan for Research and Higher Education, in the Master Plan for Marine Research and in the Bioeconomic Strategy – and in both a business perspective and a climate perspective. The maritime strategy states that the government ‘will further develop legislation and the administrative regime for the cultivation and exploitation of macroalgae’. When the Research Council's programme on aquaculture was to be revised, greater emphasis was placed on just low-ro fish species such as seaweed. This has now been materialised in a wide range of exciting projects: The Norwegian Seaweed Biorefinery Platform, which NTNU is dealing with, has received 34 million. kr MACROSEA – A knowledge platform for industrial macroalgae cultivation, at SINTEF Ocean, has received 24 million. kr PROMAC: Energy efficient Processing of MACroalgae in blue-green value chains, at Møreforskning, has received 35.4 million. kr In addition, a number of other projects are ongoing for the processing of seaweed for food, animal feed, pharmaceutical products, etc. Funds have been provided for projects to investigate the environmental impact of seaweed cultivation through KELPRO. More Maritime AS is running a project to establish the world's first pure-grown vessel concept for industrial seaweed cultivation, as the representative requested in his post. Much is happening on the research side, and we see that the visions of the overall strategies apply in applications and the allocation of research funds. Through the maritime strategy, the government wants to increase its knowledge of new species, such as seaweed, in order to strengthen the use of marine resources. Food surveillance has been commissioned by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries to facilitate the harvesting and cultivation of seaweed with a view to developing legislation and supervision. An important priority in this work is food security. It is a general principle set out in the Food Act that the safety of the products is the responsibility of the establishment. Awareness of this is particularly important for new species and products when the knowledge base on food safety is inadequate and there is little specific legislation. It is important to put this in place both for the health of consumers and for the potential of industry for placing on the market and export. The EU has launched a survey to increase its knowledge of seaweed. Norway participates in this survey by contributing data from Norwegian waters to the Marine Research Institute. Data on metals and iodine are collected to determine whether there is a need for specific risk management and, where appropriate, new and modified limit values to ensure safe products. In the long term, this data collection may result in a more harmonised regulatory framework to ensure safe food. Foods which have not been used substantially for human consumption in Norway or other EEA countries may be covered by the so-called new food legislation. This legislation requires new food to be pre-authorised before placing on the market and placing on the market. However, the most relevant tare species grown today are sugar tart and butare — and some are also trying to grow the species silver. None of these species are considered to be new foods and will therefore not require a new food authorisation. The Food Authority has its own web pages on seaweed – on the food portal.no for consumers and on food monitoring.no for the industry. Food surveillance calls on the population not to overeat some products of seaweed, as some species may have high iodine content. It is a demanding task to communicate in a good way about iodine in food, as the Norwegian population in general is recommended to take a little more iodine, while too much iodine is also harmful to health. Following agreement with the Food Authority, the industry has launched this year a voluntary labelling scheme for some products that may have high iodine content, so that consumers can make informed choices. Until a regulatory change in spring 2019 it was the department that was the case handler and coordinating authority for applications for aquaculture of seaweed, or so-called aquatic plants, which is the term used in our legislation. This ensures a uniform procedure in all regions. The competence has now been delegated to the county, as it has already dealt with the vast majority of applications for permits related to aquaculture. In the examination of applications, a large number of inputs related to the responsibility for clearing facilities were made after a possible bankruptcy. Therefore, in the spring of 2019, a security or deposit was required for seaweed growers based on the area under consideration. This was important to get in place to prevent problems with cleaning, as we have seen, among other things. for the blue-shell industry. I'm positive with the development we see in tea growing. There's a lot of enthusiasm and a lot of will from those who put tea plants in the sea. I mean, we're on the right track. Administrations have provided and will continue to do so — within reasonable limits, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e604	Thanks to the Minister for a lot of positive feedback. As the Minister said, there are 50 different actors. That's great, because then we get the diversity that we're actually earned when you're building up new industries. But at the same time it makes it quite vulnerable. If you compare with what happened when we tried to build up blue-shell cultivation in the same way, then we saw that we were able to increase production, but we couldn't coordinate it so that we got the whole value chain to the market. So it collapsed, and we have relatively few left growing blue mussels in Norway, despite the fact that blue mussels have the effect of purifying water, and that along our coast we really have the potential to grow more blue mussels. So one of the questions is, how can we avoid the same thing happening to seaweed cultivation? For now, they are in the start-up phase, but they depend on aid to ensure predictability right up to the market. So that's the one question: how do you secure that start-up phase now – maintaining diversity – while at the same time extending right up to the final producer and recipients in the European market? There is a voluntary labelling system in cooperation with the Food Safety Authority that is positive, but maybe it should be mandatory, because we see the sensitivity that is in the population as soon as there is a iodine lookup. Perhaps this should be strengthened and imposed on it to be labelled, so that the population was safe and we also got a domestic market within this area? I hear it with regulations and concessions. I think that's very positive, and I hope that's going to happen pretty fast. The same applies to research – there was a great deal to be done – and there is good dialogue with these 50 different actors who are now on the road, so that they are linked to those companies. Basically, this is very positive, but I want to know how we can secure this and look it up against the experience we have gained with blue mussels and the situation that these are today – a bit in the valley of death. What fascinates is that they also harvest at a certain point in time of the year when there is a certain temperature in the sea, and that they receive the combination of the other seafood, both in the harvest and quality assurance, where they buy. Does the Minister see the possibility of making good support arrangements there too, so that there is a coexistence between the traditional seafood industry and this industry, and that they are premiered to be joined together? It's also a way to bring down costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e617	As a government council, I have no intention of turning the seaweed industry into a subsidy industry. I think one of the biggest forces in these industries is that they themselves stand for product development, and they themselves stand for planning – what they want to get out of it – but then we, as authorities, have to facilitate them to do so. There is a transfer of competences – which will be very positive, as the representative himself was involved – and it is about research and development. I have framed a number of different types of measures for many, many tens of millions of dollars that have been made available right here. That's to have the knowledge base that's needed to move on. I myself have spent time visiting several of those who grow seaweed and make products of it. It's truffleter, it's sugar tar, or you can turn it into spices, everything from taco spices to salt to oils, etc., which are actually very good products, and of which I myself have benefited. I think this is important, but it is also important, as Mr Grung mentioned in his speech, in a climate perspective. That's why it's interesting what you do in other areas, for example. with hookball harvesting, so as to allow for the re-growing of seaweed that thereby takes up more of the CO 2 to be produced. In addition, a feed has been developed in hookballs that allows you to produce eggs and sell to markets in Asia that pay a high price for it. It is a win-win situation, both for the environment, for economic development and for the customers who want these products. I think the most important thing we do from the authorities is to have a good code. We provide research and development. I hope the county councils and others make facilities available, so that you get the area you're going to. In addition, we need to ensure that we have a simple and well manageable code that makes it easy to start up and easy to access knowledge. It is therefore important, among other things, to: NTNU and SINTEF make part of this research so that research results can be made available. In the case of aid measures, etc. as the representative was concerned, I am a little uncertain about what you think. In the start-up phase, there is a parallel opportunity to apply for the various support measures through Innovation Norway, regional development funds, etc. The regime is in place, but it is not that the Minister for Fisheries and Food has his own pot of money that he can give for various good purposes. Then we have a good support regime, so you can apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e631	Tare grows well in cold water, and it thrives well in the north. That's the background for the creation of the Algenetät Nord AS. They work for the purpose of creating values by growing tea. We have two business networks on the algae side and on the cultivation of macroalgae as tea, namely the Norwegian Association of Tares, which has nine members in the West and base in Bergen, and Algenetie Nord, with twenty members, from South Varanger in Finnmark to Solund in Sogn. They're based in Gildeskaal, Northland. These two business networks want to be the arena, which is one of the tools we have when we're going to develop new businesses, which the minister was in. In the north we also have large, open coastal areas. It is clear that there may be land conflicts there too, but it is clear from the region's coastal zone plans that there are open spaces. Of the companies in North Norway, the Lofoten Blue Harvest has come the farthest. They grow tea in the Wågan. Then you have a little smaller niche farms, like Lofoten Seaweed in Flakstad, which harvest tea on a small scale, and where you go with a wet suit into the sea. It's an exciting business, but it gets narrow. The great potential lies in growing seaweed in the sea. There are many challenges for an industry in its speedy beginning. We need to organise the area, dry and freeze requires a lot of space and capacity, and technologies for biorefining need to be developed and production approved. However, when the two networks are now working on the whole Norwegian coast with FOU actors and the instrumentation, it is because this market is enormous. The minister asked for input on what the ministry could contribute to the network, and some input was received from companies in the north. Algae network Nord has visited China, because it's in Asia they've gotten the most involved in using seaweed as food. But they are calling for a support scheme that allows companies to travel and visit businesses in Asia and participate in their production, and they would also be able to offer travel aid and residence for revisit, which can provide input to improve production here with us. Such support is possible for students and employees of educational institutions, but so far not for enterprises. The Marine Food Council has also wanted to modify its mandate, which is given in the regulation, so that they can bring with them algae products, such as seaweed, when they market seafood from Norway. It will be of great help, and it is within the department's power to be able to change the regulation. For the time being, they have been told that the ministry does not want to open it up because an EU project is being awaited to clarify limit values for toxic substances, on which the minister was involved. But in Norway, there is more sugar and butter than we produce, and there is no new food, so it seems unnecessary to wait for such a process for the important types of meal we grow in Norway. Then, of course, the more mature marine food industry could get drag help to grow. Perhaps we can have a strong development, as the seafood industry has had, if we see 15 to 20 years ahead. In our opinion, the Council should be given the opportunity to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e648	For the Workers' Party, the last thing we want to build is a subsidy industry. But, as a specialist council, it might be important to make an idea of how we can design the broad portfolio we already have, so that it meets new industries. Now my colleague Lyngedal made some suggestions. There are two things in particular: one is this valley of death that they feel they're in now, how to secure this and then build infrastructure both around processing and harvesting, as it happens in a very short time. Building up your own fleet of adapted seaweed cultivation is not appropriate if you can obtain aid to use existing fleets to harvest the seaweed – in the seafood industry – to process it, for example. It's at least a video that we've got from the companies that we think is useful. The second is this with the Seafood Council and marketing outside. This industry is, not least, very good at reaching the markets, and there they need exactly the support that the Council of Ministers can provide. Then we mentioned the climate in the interpellation, but I would like to elaborate. I wasn't aware until I started working with this industry, that the tea has such a much higher effect than the rainforest, and we have relatively much tare. For now we are talking about the cultivation of seaweed, which is possible near the coast, but perhaps also on sea wind installations – when that time comes – so there are quite far-reaching opportunities in the field of seaweed cultivation. The Energy Committee was on a committee mission to the West, and there we were told by the Marine Research Institute that we are building up our tares forest. So it's important to distinguish between the part that goes on growing seaweed, aquaculture, and that we make sure that we have a living seaweed forest, that we don't build it down, but rather build it up, because we also need it to ensure clean water for the future. The Labour Party will at least follow this industry further and have good dialogue with it, but they're in a critical phase now, so we'd like to make more concrete input beyond what we've already come into this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e661	I would like to thank the inter-pellant, Grung, for raising an exciting and important debate. I understand that we both want to facilitate the development of new farming species. This is gratifying to me as Minister for Fisheries and Food. That is one of the reasons why the title is precisely the Minister of Fisheries and Food, and not just the Minister of Fisheries, of the sea, giving us an infinite number of new opportunities. Of course, I accept the invitation from Grung to make recordings. I think it's important to have input from every possible party -- how we can do things better, how we can do even more of what is. But I think it's important that we don't give the impression that we're not doing anything, and that this is an industry that works in the opposite direction, because I think that's wrong. I believe that the government has been very early on the ball in this case and has already given considerable help to the growing industry, both by facilitating the allocation of aquaculture permits, by providing the necessary clarifications and regulatory changes, by lifting seaweed and taking into account the long-term research strategy and, not least, by working to ensure food security. We're kind of on our way, but we're not on our way. The government will continue to play a team to help raise the industry related to research and testing for commercialisation. It's today, as I said, opened to grow tea in more than 70 locations along the coast of more than 50 different companies. The government is giving more money to the budget for marine research than ever before. Tender is mentioned in positive order in relevant government strategies related to the development of marine industry and biomarine industry in recent years. We are at the ball, but we are also responsive to the industry regarding the need for regulatory adaptations, which the representative Grung was also involved in his post. But when said, it is not easy to commercialize new species in farming. We have previously had great optimism about both blue mussels, as mentioned earlier, and cod without succeeding immediately. There have been significant losses for both industry and government. Therefore, we need to hurry sufficiently slowly in this matter. If we are able to establish tare cultivation as a significant industry, we must also be prepared that it may take some time. We need to build skills, so we don't get wrong. And we need to have good dialogue with each other, the researchers, the breeders and the administration in order to move in the same direction. Then the good results will also come, and I look forward to further cooperation in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-14.ana.ud195e672	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over. Case No. 3, Unit, is already handled. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
