ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e42	Two permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on the leave of the representative Ove Trellevik from 19 February to 22 February to take part in UN consultations with the Interparliamentary Union in New York of the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative for the Lib Signe Navarsete on Permit on Days 19 and 20 February to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille 19-20. February For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness 19-20. February
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e82	The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e87	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen, Sheida Sangtarash, Freddy André Øvstegård, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Audun Lysbakken and myself, to put forward a proposal on security, dignity and proper help for people who need redundancy money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e92	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e110	I refer to my statement in Stortinget on 30 January 2018 on access management and information security in Health South-East. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present a new comprehensive presentation of the work in the field of ICT in this region. The report on the Riksrevision’s control of the administration of state companies in 2017 mentions two issues relating to ICT development in Health South-East in particular. The report was presented on 6 November last year. Under the point on the results of the annual audit, the Riksrevision assessed the work previously referred to as Digital Renewal, which was the overall plan for the region’s work in the field of ICT. The National Audit Office has also carried out its own management control of the implementation of the RIS/PACS regional radiology programme by Health South-East. This was a sub-program under Digital Renewal. I want to go into both of these studies in my presentation. On the other hand, I would like, among other things: Commenting on the modernisation of the ICT infrastructure in Health South-East, which was the background to my presentation in January 2018. I would first like to comment on the annual company audit of the National Audit Office for 2017, where they especially looked at the work on digital renewal in Health South-East. In October 2012, the Board of Health South-East addressed proposals for ICT Strategy and Action Plan – a renewal programme for standardisation and technological solutions, referred to as Digital Renewal. Health South-East launched the programme in 2013. However, several of the solutions covered had started before 2013 and the economic evaluations for ICT projects extend back to 2010. The name Digital Renewal is no longer used for this work. The name may give the impression that this is a project for a limited period of time to complete. That's not the case. Health South-East will always have a number of major, ongoing ICT projects. This is necessary to meet the needs of healthcare professionals for ICT solutions to support good treatment, patient safety, quality and information security. All of this development work was collected for a period under the umbrella of Digital Renewal. The digitisation of the health sector has led to changes in the way in which the various actors cooperate. Digitalisation requires collaboration between the health care provider on the processing of health information and on the choice of digital solutions in a different way from the previous one. This and technological developments make it necessary to make changes and adjustments to the ongoing work on the ICT project portfolio. Following a review and re-planning of the plans for ICT work in the region by Health South-East, it is clear that the original programmes and timetables are no longer an appropriate reference for their work. At the same time, several new projects have also emerged that affect the overall picture. In its 2017 report from the company review, the National Audit Office writes that the targets set for digital renewal have not been met and that there is no clear picture of the final cost. The National Audit Office considers that it is the responsibility of the Ministry to follow up on the achievement of the objectives set. The National Audit Office also states that the Stortinget should have received an overall orientation on the state of health south-east work in the field of ICT. I am therefore pleased that I have now been given the opportunity to give such a comprehensive explanation to the Stortinget, and with this also an opportunity to correct some misunderstandings and allegations that have arisen on the occasion of the case. In its report, the National Audit Board has focused on the difference between a planned cost of 5.5 billion. kr and a realised cost of SEK 6,2 billion. kr. However, these figures are not directly comparable. The number of $5 billion. kr is taken from the long-term economic plan for ICT investment in Health South-East in the period 2014-2017. 6.2 B.C.E. kr is the actual investments and operating costs over the period 2010-2017. So here, two different time periods are compared, and investment figures are compared to both operating and investing figures. The National Auditor stated to NTB on Tuesday 6 November 2018 that no "documented effects" of the program could yet be seen, which had a stipulated cost of 5.5 billion. ICT crowns. This is misleading and unfortunate. Fortunately, some journalists have seen that this was drawing the conclusion too far, for example. in a comment in Aftenposten 12. november 2018. Under the umbrella of digital innovation, or the work of the region in the field of ICT, Health South-East has carried out a number of successful and important ICT projects. DIPS is introduced as a patient record in all healthcare establishments in the region, both in the field of somatic and mental health protection. In addition, all journal solutions are standardised, so that they include, for example: have the same configuration and automated access management. This facilitates an ongoing project dealing with transparency solutions between DIPS installations in the region. The solution implies that a doctor such as treats a cancer patient at the Hospital Østfold, can read journal documents from the patient’s stay at the Radium Hospital. The solution allows doctors to search all documents available on a patient in the different healthcare establishments in the region. The solution will be easy to use, as all documents are standardised in the same way in all DIPS installations in the region, and the doctor can choose from an overview the journal documents that are currently available. This is an important step on the road towards ‘one citizen — one journal’. E-prescription and core records are introduced in all health establishments. Regional economic and logistic solutions have been introduced at Akershus University Hospital, Hospital Østfold, Hospital in Vestfold, Hospital Telemark, Sunnaa Hospital, Vestre Viken, Hospital Partner and Health South-East RHF. Electronic curve and medication solution introduced by Akershus University Hospital, Oslo University Hospital, Ostfold Hospital and Telemark Hospital. The Hospital Østfold has introduced a so-called closed pharmaceutical loop. This means that the healthcare professional has an electronic overview of the medication given to which patient, of which health workers and at what time. This has resulted in a clear decrease in the number of errors in the healthcare business. Regional solutions for medical cancer treatment have been implemented at the Hospitals, Oslo University Hospital, the Hospitals of Vestfold, the Hospitals of Østfold, Vestre Viken and Sørlanden Hospital. As part of the solution, a regional spa library has been established which provides an overview of all courses given to cancer patients. The spa library is updated each time new cancer medicines are used, and responsibility for this has been added to Oslo University Hospital. In this way, the electronic solution facilitates both equivalent and decentralised healthcare by ensuring equal treatment for all patients in the region for the same cancer, irrespective of the hospital in which treatment is administered. Electronic food records have been introduced as a standardised solution for all healthcare businesses in the region. In other words, it is a long list of comprehensive, important and successful ICT projects in Health South-East. At the same time, it is well known that there have been problems with the implementation of other important projects. I will now comment on some of these, and I will start with the Riksrevision's control of the administration of state companies in 2017 and their investigation into the implementation of the regional radiology programme in Health South-East. The aim of the regional radiology programme was to introduce a common radiology solution in the region. The board of Health South-East stopped the introduction in February 2018 and cancelled further delivery. The project was stopped as a result of the experience gained from the pilot project at the Inland Hospital and the fact that they failed to establish a regional solution. In that report, the National Audit Office shows that work on a common radiology solution for healthcare businesses in the region has been ongoing for seven years, with significant resource use and economic losses. It is also pointed out that it is critical that Health South-East was unable to clarify the solution the hospitals needed, or to ensure the quality of the offers well enough. The National Audit Office considers that it is highly critical that the work on the joint radiology programme was not guided by benefits and risks, and that governing bodies did not manage their governing authority in a targeted and good manner. They also believe that the contracting entity has not followed up the supplier well enough. Health South-East has suffered significant financial losses associated with the project. In the 2017 accounts, a loss related to the radiology solution of 114 million is recorded. kr. No further losses are expected in the financial statements for 2018. The Inland Hospital is compensated for some of the additional costs incurred by the health care company in implementing the solution. The booked tape of $114 million. kr has not been charged to the Hospital Inland, but is taken as a loss in the accounts of Health South-East. The Riksrevision believes that the work on the radiology solution could give cause for concern about patient safety. This is agreed by Health South-East, but has also indicated that it is important to distinguish between adverse events and patient safety breaches. In case of notification of non-conformities or adverse events, measures and changes shall be put in place to ensure proper treatment and the reoccurrence of events shall be prevented. This is incorporated into the aberration system. According to Health South-East, the Hospital Inland, based on non-compliance reports, has put in place several measures to ensure patient safety and provide adequate health care. Many manual control procedures and risk mitigation measures have been needed. In addition, large x-ray series have been required to check transmission errors between the radiology system and the patient record system. In other words, the health undertaking has put in place exceptional measures to ensure patient safety. The Board of Health South-East considered that it was not advisable to proceed with the project. Health South-East has taken lessons from this, and among other things. changes in the organisation of ICT projects in the region. The Management Board further decided that Oslo University Hospital should be entrusted with the task of obtaining a radiology solution to meet the needs of the health business, while allowing the agreement to be used by the other health establishments in the region. The Inland Hospital and the other health establishments in the region are now taking part in the work of Oslo University Hospital. Later in the presentation I will come back to the actions that Health South-East has taken on the basis of experience with this programme. I will now comment on the work on modernising the ICT infrastructure in Health South-East. In this context, I would like to recall the background of the project. Health South-East has a low uniform ICT infrastructure, and parts of it represent a challenge in terms of information security. The merger between Health South and Health East in 2007 increased the complexity of the development of common regional ICT solutions and infrastructure. According to Health South-East, the merger led, inter alia, to: as a result of the Law on Government Acquisitions, in some areas, the development of coherent ICT solutions and infrastructures had to start again. They have therefore worked over several years to consolidate and modernise the ICT infrastructure of healthcare businesses. The Board of Health South-East decided in the Board of Directors meeting in September 2016 that infrastructure modernisation would take place in cooperation with an external supplier. The board also decided that the Hospital Partner, which is Health South-East's common ICT service provider, would contract with the most advantageous supplier. A contract was subsequently concluded with the company in question. At the same time, it was considered that parts of the hospital partner were to be transferred to the external supplier. My statement on 30 January 2018 focused mainly on the failure of access management that was revealed in the work of the Hospital Partners in the modernisation of the healthcare region's ICT infrastructure. The statement stated that the Board of Health South-East decided in May 2017 to suspend the modernisation programme. The decision was based on an interim report from the company’s auditor, PwC. The final report was submitted on 22 June 2017. This confirmed a failure in the preparations made to transfer operations to the private supplier. PwC review showed that both access management and risk assessments had failed. At the same time, PwC concluded that it was unlikely that the current access given had actually been used to retrieve sensitive patient information. An important point to make was that, in its review, the PwC confirmed the need for modernisation of the ICT infrastructure. The Board of Health South-East discussed in June 2018 the matter of further work on the modernisation of the ICT infrastructure in the region. Following an overall assessment, the Management Board decided that the contract with the company DXC for standardisation and modernisation of the ICT infrastructure should be cancelled. Furthermore, the Governing Board decided that the operation of the ICT infrastructure should not be outsourced to a external supplier. The termination of the agreement with DXC has had economic consequences for Health South-East. In the 2017 accounts, there is an accounting loss related to the agreement with DXC of a total of 112 million. kr. In October 2018, the Board of Health South-East considered the final settlement for the cancellation of the hospital partner service agreement with DC. It is clear from the board decision that, as part of the closing settlement, a purchase of computer and software was made at 141.4 million. kr, excluding VAT. Plus 10.2 million. kr for pre-paid maintenance and support of this equipment. These amounts are related to equipment that is expected to be used further and are therefore not considered as a loss. In addition to this, it was paid approx. 60 million. NOK to DXC as compensation for the costs incurred by DXC and their subcontractors. An overview of the overall losses associated with the financial statements for 2018 will be provided. There is an assessment of how much of the remaining values can be reused. At this stage, it is currently worth 142 million. kr. In my statement to the European Parliament on 30 January 2018, I pointed out that there is a broad consensus in Norway that the public should have access to high-quality public health services, and that this requires that we actively use new technologies to support services. We must then consider using the world's leading methods and technologies, and also deal with the fact that much of technology development is taking place in countries other than Norway. In view of the lack of access management in Health South-East, the Directorate for eHealth was tasked with developing a good and common understanding of what is needed to ensure the safe and proper use of both national and international suppliers. The Directorate provided a report on this, which has become an important document for the sector. The Directorate’s report confirmed that the health and care sector is dependent on private ICT suppliers, both nationally and internationally. Employees of these suppliers need to have access to our systems to install and maintain both medical and technical equipment and software. However, appropriate risk assessments and data processing agreements must always be in place to ensure the necessary information security. This is particularly important in the use of external suppliers. In the joint enterprise meeting with the regional health companies in January 2018, I asked that the recommendations in the report of the Directorate for eHealth be taken into account in the further work on information security. I also asked Health South-East to pay particular attention to the report in its further efforts to ensure the necessary modernisation of the ICT infrastructure in its region. I showed in my presentation in January 2018 the data breach against Health South-East in January 2018. Health South-East was exposed to a major data breach by an advanced and professional actor. The case was reported to the police, and the PST initiated investigations into possible breaches of Section 121 of the Criminal Code. This provision affects illegal intelligence activities that could damage fundamental national interests related to the infrastructure of society, such as health preparedness in Norway. The PST filed the case in December 2018 because of a lack of information about who was behind the break-in. The investigation showed the compromise of a server in an external zone. That is, it has been available via the Internet, which was also the purpose, as this was a service aimed at the public. The conclusion of the PST investigation is in line with the analysis carried out by the Hospital Partner. Vulnerability in the service aimed at the public gave the threat actor the ability to execute commands on the operating system on the server, and from there established a foothold for further activity. The perpetrator has subsequently unlawfully re-entered the internal zone and obtained administrative access. This access could have been used to steal patient information and research data. PST has stated that they cannot determine whether such information has been stolen or not, based on their investigation. At the same time, they have no indication that such information has strayed. Health South-East has reported that both the Hospital Partner and the Centre for Information Security in Norsk Healthnet, HealthCERT, have investigated data traffic for a longer period than PST has done, and that they have also found no indication that patient information has been taken out or otherwise abused. Prior to the attack, Health South-East had decided that the hospital partner's burglary detection system should be established at all health establishments in the region, a work that was largely completed before the attack on Health South-East. The system has been important in both incident management and investigation, and has provided a good insight into network traffic before, during and after the attack. In its press release, PST points out that Norwegian businesses need to develop a good safety culture, carry out value assessments and implement the necessary security measures to secure their data networks. Health South-East emphasises that through the Hospital Partners, and in cooperation with healthcare companies in the region, they have had an extra attention to this from spring 2017. At the same time, health regions cooperate in the transfer of experience in order to create a good safety culture and competence to prevent, detect and implement harm-reduction measures against unauthorised access to their data networks. The Directorate for e-Health and Norsk Healthnet are also involved in this work. Hospital partners have also established their own programme to strengthen access management and improve information security and privacy. In 2018, priority actions under this programme will be given to strengthening the capacity of the Hospital Partners to resist, detect and respond to data attacks. Both the Hospital Partner and Health South-East also carry out an internal evaluation of the event. I see it as natural that the PST studies and evaluation report of the Health Directorate, as well as the Health South-East own evaluation, are used as a basis for further work in all health regions. The Ministry took the initiative to meet the actors concerned at the end of January, where this was a topic. The switch from a paper-based to a digitised healthcare service changes how we approach the requirements of information security and the processing of health data. The Patient Journal Act of 2014 is an important part of this shift. Through the EU Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, we are taking another step forward. In Health South-East, a lot of work has been done to implement the requirements resulting from the Data Protection Regulation. This includes both privacy in general and information security. The management system has been reviewed and updated regionally, and all health care establishments have established data protection representatives. The group audit in Health South-East has recently carried out a survey of the status of the region. However, the work to meet the requirements of the Data Protection Regulation is a continuous process. These measures have had an important impact on the safety culture of the region. Privacy and information security are now an integral part of all relevant decision-making processes. The National Audit Office writes in its report that it is the responsibility of the Department to follow up on the achievement of the objectives set, and notes that Health South-East wants closer governance and follow-up. With regard to the National Audit Office’s reference to the fact that Health South-East wants closer control and follow-up, Health South-East has stated that this was an expression that they themselves want a closer follow-up of Hospital Partners and work on regional ICT projects. Health South-East has already introduced several organisational and governance changes to respond to this. I set an overall framework for the operation of specialist health services through my requirements for regional health companies, among others. by decision of the business meetings. However, the regional ICT projects, including the previous Digital Renewal programme, are part of the responsibility of the regional health business for providing sound health services to the population. I have taken a number of initiatives to strengthen the work on health information security, both in the context of the challenges of the modernisation programme in Health South-East last year, and after the data breach in January 2018. Among other things, I have strengthened the board of Health South-East with expertise in information security. I have assured myself that Health South East has shared its experience of the data breach with the other health regions, thus ensuring knowledge transfer and contributing to a strengthened preparedness in the sector. This has been systematically followed up through regular meetings between the information security managers of the regions. I have addressed on several occasions the information security challenges with the management of healthcare companies, at the latest in a meeting with all the hospital directors and the directors of the regional health companies in November 2018. Here I showed that there is a particular need for action to reduce the risks and complexity of ICT projects and to ensure proper organisation. I have previously mentioned the requirements at the business meeting in January 2018. In the business meeting now in January 2019, I requested to follow up on the findings and comments of the National Audit Office. This includes, inter alia: health south-east shall report to the Ministry from the follow-up work. In the reorganisation of the management and follow-up of major ICT projects, Health South-East has implemented several measures. Changes were made in the administrative management both in the Hospital Partner and in Health South-East in May and June 2017, and the entire board of the Hospital Partner was replaced. Reorganisation of the technology area and e-health area in the region is also under way. The changes introduced shall include, inter alia: contribute to the clarification of roles and responsibilities, and the responsibilities are placed in the regular line. The changes will ensure that health businesses are better involved and that decisions are better anchored both in health businesses and in the management of regional health enterprises. As from the tertiary report for the 1st quarter 2018, the reporting in Health South-East has been modified to report to the Governing Board on each managed project. In this way, Health South-East wants the challenges associated with the implementation of individual projects in the ICT portfolio to be clarified. This will also enable the Governing Board to better monitor the projects they themselves have adopted. Attention is paid to non-conformities reporting with a description of measures to close detected non-conformities. The National Audit Office’s study of the introduction of regional radiology solutions points to several critical points related to organisational aspects. This project, as mentioned earlier, has stopped, and Health South-East has changed its strategy. Health South-East will change the way acquisitions are carried out. This includes, inter alia: that, as a general rule, it should be an internal negotiator. Greater emphasis shall be placed on experience in previous acquisitions and awareness of addressing different needs in the region. Supplier management shall be strengthened. Health South-East has also strengthened its legal capacity and competence in the contract area and will link this competence more closely to supplier management. ICT projects are comprehensive and complex. The solutions shall be integrated with many different systems and interfere with working processes in different parts of the organisation. ICT projects are therefore associated with high risks, but at the same time it is important to point out that there is also a significant risk of not developing and modernising ICT solutions. In this review of the ICT area in Health South-East, I will also mention the ICT incident on Friday, 18 January this year, where an error at the Hospital Partner led to the patient journal system DIPS being down or unstable at the healthcare companies in Health South-East. All healthcare companies in the region with emergency treatment of patients went on standby the same afternoon/evening. Manual procedures were used in all health establishments. No risk to patient treatment was reported. The hospital partner returned the health business systems to their normal function beyond Friday evening. For this reason, the health companies moved into normal operation and concluded the emergency response gradually beyond the evening this Friday, 18 January. The error was fixed night to Monday 21 January, and the same afternoon the hospital partner went out of standby and was back in normal operation. No evidence of data intrusion was found. Hospital partners are in the process of evaluating the event according to established procedures and will consider implementing measures to reduce the risk of similar events. Events such as this underline the importance of modernising the ICT infrastructure in Health South-East and of providing good and secure ICT services to reduce the risk of disruption of key patient systems. The incident also shows that there is a risk associated with the operation of ICT services and that healthcare businesses in the region have good manual procedures when ICT events occur. We must be prepared for such events to happen in the future too, but Health South-East will be more robust in meeting these once they have put in place a modernised ICT infrastructure. It is important that health businesses have transparency in their information security management, also related to medical-technical devices, and that it is routinely notified to the Data Protection Authority when deviations occur. This is not uncommon, and supervision will relatively often have such issues for treatment. This statement shows that there have been several unfortunate and demanding events in the health of the South-East in the field of ICT in recent years. It is important that the sector learns from these. In parallel with these events, there have been changes in our environment, both in technological developments and in the international threat picture. This also requires measures to ensure information security. Health South-East has implemented several measures to reduce the risks and complexity of its ICT work and will continue to do so. Among other things, the lines of responsibility are clarified in order to better anchor decisions on ICT projects. This is in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. For me, it has been important to pay attention to safe and secure ICT systems in my overall ownership management. Many major and important ICT projects are under way in all health regions. I will give priority to following up this work in my governance dialogue, both with the health regions, the Directorate for e-Health and Norsk Healthnet. I have therefore asked health regions to cooperate through experience transfer, in order to create a good safety culture and develop competences to prevent, detect and implement harm-reduction measures, among others, in joint enterprise meetings with regional health businesses in January. unauthorised access to the sector’s data networks. The Directorate for eHealth and Norsk Healthnet are also involved in this work. These must jointly contribute to reducing the risks and complexity of the sector’s ICT projects and ensuring proper organisation with clear lines of responsibility and management anchoring. Finally, I would like to mention that the National Audit Office is now planning to carry out a study on the protection of its ICT systems by health businesses. This is expected to provide us with useful knowledge to prevent and strengthen health companies’ defences against new data attacks. We are generally in favour of the National Audit Office's investigations into our sector, and they often provide a good basis for further improvement. They've also done that in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e295	The President will now propose, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, that a brief comment round be opened limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e300	The Minister of Health uses the Parliament’s Chair to deal with the Riksrevision on a matter that has been raised by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and where the Council of State has had the full opportunity to respond to the criticism and assessments made by the Riksrevision. I think it's a little special. But to the very statement: Under this Minister of Health, we have unfortunately had too many of these scandalous projects in this region of health. That's why the State Council has to come to Stortinget and explain itself over and over again. It has cost Health-Norway dearly, and it is due to poor processes, lack of respect for warnings from the professional community and an obvious political ideology where belief in outsourcing follows a classical right-wing policy logic. The fasitite is lost money and lost trust. Governments were warned against the risks when it was about outsourcing, but rejected it and explained to Storting that this would release funds for patient treatment. The opposite happened. In addition, the failed acquisition of radiology systems as explained by the Council of State will also occur. For the Workers' Party, the aim is for patients in Norwegian hospitals to be sure that the treatment is started quickly and that the service is to be provided in a planned and uninterrupted manner. The ICT systems of the health service are essential for achieving those objectives. Patient information must flow in a way that ensures good and proper processing and that ensures data security. For safe and secure data processing, we know that three things are crucial: it is confidentiality — that the data do not come on the roads or end up at someone who should not have access to them. There is integrity – that no unauthorised person can interfere with the systems. There is availability — that patient information is made available in all parts of the service that are relevant to the patient’s treatment and ensure the quality of treatment. Unfortunately, the ICT scandal in Health South-East has shown that this has not been well taken care of, and also all these events that have taken place, it repeats the Council of State in its presentation. On 8 January 2018, the Hospital Partner was informed that abnormal activity was taking place in the systems in the region. The health company suspected that the professional was behind, and PST and Kripos were connected. He/she has been able to access sensitive patient data on 2.8 million Nordics in the South-East region. In this way, sensitive information has been diverted, and unauthorised persons have been able to identify an infrastructure that could have been used for sabotage and paralysing healthcare. We need to learn from this. The agreement received massive criticism when it was concluded because professionals and security experts warned that outsourcing to foreign actors would be a threat to patient safety. The arguments for and against this can be discussed. But the arguments for solving these problems on their own are very good. It is therefore appropriate to resolve this ‘in-house’, as the other health regions have done, and that conclusion was reached in Health South-East in June last year. «We must have control of the data of our own company. We found that the security of information could not be adequately ensured by decommissioning operations». It said Chairman Svein Gedrem in Health South-East in June last year. It shows that it's best to put the ideological skyscrapers aside. The fact that health information for half the population of Norway has not been safe, heightens the trust in healthcare, and the proper handling of this information is a core task for our healthcare. It's the responsibility of the Council of State. It is good and necessary that the digital renewal work in Health South-East continues with strength and control. The patients need it. Finally, I would like to propose that the statement be forwarded to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e326	First, I would like to thank the Minister for a thorough report on the work on ICT in Health South-East. In order to ensure efficiency through increased digitalisation of the Norwegian community, ICT solutions and digital services must be sufficiently secure and not least reliable. Businesses and individuals must have confidence that the system and networks are working as they should, and respect the privacy of the individual. Good ICT security and the ability to manage unwanted digital events are a means of achieving this trust. ICT solutions to support good treatment, patient safety, quality and information security are continuous work. Health South-East and the other regions will have to have a large number of ongoing ICT projects in the future. The digitisation of the health sector has led to changes in the way in which the various actors cooperate, and technological developments have led to the need for dynamism in this work as well. It is known that there are problems with the implementation of some important projects. At the same time, it is a reality that health south-east has today carried out a series of successful and correct ICT projects. Measures to reduce the risks and complexity of the ICT project and to ensure proper organisation are essential to follow-up in a good way. The challenges in the digital space are cross-border, across countries, sectors and enterprises, and these developments are moving very fast. It is very positive that the Minister initiates an evaluation with the aim of getting a common understanding of what is going on in order to have a safe and proper use of both national and international healthcare providers. There is no contrast between information security and service release. Safe outsourcing requires good ordering skills, and each individual activity is required to carry out thorough risk and vulnerability assessments on a case-by-case basis in the event of the relocation of that type of service. It's an important task for the government to ensure a resilient health care, and it requires us to take this experience we have with Health South-East, over us, and look at all aspects of health here. As the Labour Party representative pointed out, we have to put the ideological skylights aside. We're forced to make a holistic assessment. We are also forced to assume that we live in an international value when it comes to ICT, and it is essential that we enable our patients to benefit from the development that we depend on in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e341	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good presentation on an important topic. Digital development has an incredible number of positive aspects, but there is no doubt that it also poses challenges. We have had many ICT projects in public over the years that have gone wrong because the complexity of the projects has been underestimated. Nor have you had the skills necessary to manage the projects, in many cases. It is important to stress that there are also good examples of projects that are successful in Health South-East, especially DIPS, introduced as a patient record in all healthcare establishments in the region. This is an important step towards one citizen – one journal. However, it is worrying that there are many examples of projects that have gone wrong, not least when the modernisation programme was to be implemented in cooperation with an external supplier, and failure was detected in both access management and risk assessments. This once again underlines the importance of good competence in these projects. In Norway, we will rely on the use of private suppliers, both national and international, for ICT projects, including in the public sector. Then you have to be careful and conscious of the dangers and challenges that can arise from this. It is therefore good that the Directorate for eHealth has worked to develop a good and common understanding of what is needed to ensure the safe and proper use of both national and international suppliers. This needs to be followed up in practice in the sector. Risk assessments and data processing agreements must be in place to ensure information security. Our health information is one of the most private things we have. We demand the actors who keep this information about us. In this context, the data breach in Health South-East in 2018 is very serious. We must be able to trust that our health care service, which is largely in the public hands of Norway, is able to protect us from forces that are potentially out of reach for private information about us. There are no indications that patient information has been used or misused, but it is very serious that access could have been used to steal patient information and research data. In Norway, we can no longer afford to be naive. ICT security is extremely important. The Progress Party is pleased that this is something that is high on the government's agenda. It is very good that the Minister of Health follows this closely up. PST stresses that we need to develop a good safety culture, carry out value assessments and implement the necessary security measures to ensure our data networks. We expect this to be something the Minister of Health and the rest of the government will follow up, even in a long-term perspective. The Progress Party is pleased that the National Audit Board is planning to carry out a study on the protection of its ICT systems by health businesses. These include: how to protect potentially sensitive health information about you and me. It is important that the people trust that this is done in a good way, and I am happy that the government and the health minister take this seriously and follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e356	Thank you for your statement. I also have to say that I think it is a little special that we get an explanation on a matter which has been dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and which they have put forward. I support what the representative Mr Kjerkol said about getting this matter to the committee. I would like to introductoryly say that I think it is special that the Council of State speaks for half an hour without mentioning anything about the safety laws. The size decided a year ago since a new safety law, and what is also a theme in it afterwards, is whether ICT in health services should be defined under the safety law on protective information. Today, we hear that the Council of State refers to the responsibility of health professionals, and that he has to stick to it – he can do a little in the mission documents and in his management dialogue, but this is the responsibility of regional health professionals. That's true, but it's a very simplification of this whole area. Under the Safety Act, the Ministry of Health and Welfare is responsible for the prevention of health and care security. At present, regional health professionals and health professionals are defined under the safety laws. The same is true of Norwegian Health Net. However, the decision on the definition of ICT infrastructure under the Security Act is under the law delegated to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. That one today doesn't say anything about it, I think I'm very perceptive. The Centre Party, together with SV, has put forward proposals to this effect to define the basic ICT infrastructure in healthcare under the Security Act. I have not yet received an answer as to whether this should happen, when it should happen, and in case of why not. I think it's obvious that part of the answer to all of these scandal projects when it comes to ICT is that one has to get a much clearer control from the top. Then the security promise is a nice place to start, and there can't be a councillor not to mention when a choose to come to the Storting to do good for this situation. Among the projects mentioned, we have the radiology programme in Health South-East, which has been going on for seven years. It has been a significant resource use and financial loss, and the solution is not good enough. This was informed by Stortinget in 2013. No we are in 2019. A major criticism from the Riksrevision is that Stortinget has not been informed on the way. We've read about things in the media, but we haven't got a statement from the state council. It is good that she has arrived now – after six years and after the Riksrevision has asked for her. But my question is, why every day has a not been informed about this on the road? And can we be sure that the Storting is informed if there are other similar projects? We experienced the same thing in ICT cases in Health South-East, with the outsourcing that happened. We in the opposition took it up because we got a lot of worry messages, but the concerns were clearly rejected. We didn't get a real deal. I feel that we were not kept up-to-date enough, and then what happened happened. Another concern – other than Health South-East – is when we look at what is now happening in Health Mid-Norway with the Health Platform, a very important project to ensure better interaction and patient safety. There we are now getting a voice of concern – from Abelia, who was on our last fall. There is a great risk, they say, there is a great risk of not exploiting competition in the market. There is a great danger associated with the supply processes. I expect a government council to take responsibility for preventing new billions of losses in the failure of health care providers, and to inform Stortinget if some of these serious things are going on – and not many years later, and things are actually over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e377	This was a somewhat twisted matter to handle. I am on the control committee and am a case spokesman for the very matter of company control, addressed by the Council of State in its submission. We have just put forward the position, on 29 January we did so, and that matter has not yet been discussed in the Stortinget. I find that the Council of State largely discusses with the Riksrevision in this edition, while it is the discussion, the Riksrevision debate, that we have had in the Control Committee, that the Riksrevision, through its corporate control, is running a race and is in dialogue with the Ministry – running. There the Ministry of Health has the full potential, and has also benefited from, having a close dialogue with the Riksrevision and making contributions to the Riksrevision's conclusions. It also has an impact on the Riksrevision’s assessments. Then the process starts with the Stortinget and the Control Committee, where it has also been a dialogue with the Ministry of Health, and together we have come up with an attitude to the Stortinget when it comes to corporate control. That is why I think it is particularly important that the Council of State uses Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure to make a statement that goes directly into a matter that we have still not dealt with – and polemises with the Riksrevision, in the form of a settlement – a settlement to be annexed to the Minutes and not to go to the Committee, as it has been proposed. It's a very messy process, but I think we can get out of it by considering this extensive, half an hour of dense information, difficult for the Storting to decide on, being dealt with in committee. I would then recommend that the Health Committee take it, as it is not only its post-control committee that is addressed here, but also today's situation, which is entirely specific to the Health Committee's domain. That was the problem. The positive aspect is that this is in fact a follow-up to what is in the configuration of the control committee, where a joint committee refers to: ‘The government also has a responsibility to inform the Storting when major projects of this type face significant challenges. In this case, the government did not inform us after the fall of 2013, although many challenges have arisen in retrospect. The Committee considers that the government should learn from this and asks that the Storting should be presented with an overall status report. Furthermore, the Committee asks that the government ensure that the Storting should continue and be coherent in the future in the event of new challenges.» It addresses in many ways what the representative Toppe mentions, that here the Size is busy being well informed. One way to be well informed is to allow the Health Committee to follow the procedure, ask questions and get time to go through the complex properly. Then I think one had been given a clean treatment. Then it will be a challenge for the presidency to find out how to deal with these kinds of situations, where we have a matter going on in committee, which has not yet been dealt with in the Stortinget, but where, by using Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure, state councils come and pronounce, have information on the matter in question. It's a situation I haven't been away from before. So I'll just emphasize the seriousness of this. There are several major programs in Health South-East. They cost enormous amounts, there are documented large exceedances, it's unclear whether one at all has come into being, one does not know when to target, one has not had full control of data leaks, access control, the questions there – very seriously, all are some in it – and the patient safety of the radiology program in particular has suffered. The control committee believes that our serious failure in patient safety has occurred. There is a fine-tuner in the control committee, based on the Riksrevision's assessments, which shows some of the weight in the matter. There has been a cost gap here that has been out of control, which one must have control. I think it's definitely in place that the Health Committee gets the job done and gets a thorough job, so that the Storting has control of both patient safety, cost exceedances and computer leaks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e399	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Health for this presentation. As he points out, there have been several unfortunate and demanding events in Health South-East in the ICT field in recent years, and I agree with the Council of State that it is important that the sector learns from this. Norway is perhaps one of the world’s most digitised countries. We have been forward-looking and have chosen to use digital solutions to solve important societal challenges, but it is clear that it also makes us vulnerable. For this reason, the choice of digital solutions requires safety to be put in the high-speed. Here you have a lot to go on, it shows this statement, which is about ICT solutions within Health South-East. I am pleased that Health South-East is following up the Riksrevision's recommendation, inter alia. clarifying the lines of responsibility for better anchoring decisions on ICT projects. It's very important. I am also pleased that the Riksrevision – and several others have expressed it – is now planning to carry out a study on the protection of ICT systems by health businesses. The concern caused by the fact that data breaches and patient information have been diverted – it is clear that this is something we cannot live with. Like the Council of State, I am very positive that the Court of Auditors is conducting such investigations in order to make this sector even better. I am very pleased with this statement, and I am concerned that we do not stop with this. On behalf of the Government Parties, I would like to express our wish to express our wish to the same as the representative of Kjerkol, that this statement be sent to the Committee. The Committee will then be able to decide how the Storting should proceed with this presentation. We support that proposal, we hope it can be taken into account, and that we will have time within the committee to go even further through the presentation and on that basis consider how we will follow it up further. But this is not a matter that might stop here. With regard to ICT and the choice of ICT solutions in the health sector, we know that this is an area we are going to meet in several rounds. I also have a background from the control committee – that was right enough in my first period, and it is starting a few years ago – but then there were ICT solutions related to the choice of solutions at Oslo University Hospital that proved to be a solution that could not be implemented. We've wasted a lot of resources choosing solutions that haven't worked. But we have to keep thinking about security, we have to think about how we use public resources in the best possible way – how do we ensure that the ICT solutions that you choose do not least ensure patient safety? I'm pretty sure these are issues that this committee is going to have to deal with in the future as well. As I said, we support the transmission of this to the Committee, so the Committee will have to consider how we should follow this work further up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e414	Thanks for the feedback. I just want to stress that I have not been right about the Riksrevision reports. What I needed to stress was the communication of the National Auditor with the media in the submission of the reports, which made the impression that one here had two comparable figures, which are actually not comparable, because they represent both different bases and different periods of time. These figures received a lot of attention, and it was important for me to stress that these are not comparable figures. With regard to the National Audit Office’s reports, I believe that my full explanation – throughout – showed the seriousness of the government audit reports and the ways in which we follow them. Finally, I also stated that we are pleased with the work done by the Riksrevision and that we look forward to the report that the Riksrevision is currently working on, and that is probably going to be very useful for us in the work on the further follow-up. I find it a little strange that someone criticises the fact that someone gets a complete statement, which has been pointed out that we should give the Storting. When making a comprehensive presentation, it will be a little difficult to draw out one of the national audit reports examined by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the more reports from the Riksaudition include. someone who was up for treatment in Stortinget on February 5th this year, where I said that I would come back with a complete statement, which I have done today. There was no one from the Control and Constitutional Committee who had negative comments on it in that debate. I would also like to stress that when the impression is created that the Storting is not informed, that is not what is stated in the Riksrevision reports. What comes out is that the Storting has not received a complete set of information. That's what I've been trying to give here today. But the Storting has been informed in various documents, matters and explanations throughout this period. So to the issue of the Safety Act: I, as Minister of Health and Care, decided that health regions should be covered by the Safety Act – they are, of course, also covered by the new Safety Act. The task of defining which objects are eligible for protection is currently in progress. It is quite right that it is the Ministry of Health and Health that will determine which objects are shieldable after that review, but it is probably a little more complicated than just saying that all ICT infrastructure is vulnerable. This is about a concrete assessment of concrete objects, and it would be very strange if the Stortinge had joined the proposal of the Center Party, which would mean that the Stortinge went in and decided which objects are protective, when the law says that it is the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the other responsible departments that are going to make that kind of assessments. I look forward to the Committee's further consideration of this statement. I would, of course, also like to answer the questions that the Committee might have in connection with that discussion. It was important to give this overall account of how we now assess the situation. We have now done so, and as I said, I look forward to the further consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e429	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. In the light of what has been said in the debate, the President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Health on the ICT field in Health South-East should be sent to the Health and Care Committee, pursuant to Rule 45(c). – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e460	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e469	As rapporteur for Prop. 3 L for 2018–2019, I will first refer to the purpose of the legislative proposal: to facilitate the compensation of providers of statutory specialist health services and state child protection services for historical pension costs and thus strengthen the framework conditions for non-profit service providers. The Committee stresses the importance of growth in the proportion of ideals. The Committee agrees that pension rights remain in the CLP, even though the Hippe Committee suggested that the State pension fund should take over. I'm pointing out that the ministry believes that there will be less administration if the commitments remain in the KLP, and we're basing it on that. The Committee considers that the legalisation of the grant scheme will facilitate the administration of the scheme, increase the predictability of beneficiaries of the State’s coverage, ensure that the costs are covered as long as they are incurred, and reduce the risk that the State aid legal assessments must be carried out each year. The Committee shall agree on this matter. The Committee considers that the proposal points out that the potential level of historical pension costs for suppliers in the municipal sector is unknown and that the budgetary consequences of the possible extension of the grant schemes may be significant. An investigation of the economic impact must be carried out after the examination of this proposition today, as the Workers' Party also proposes. The Labour Party believes that it is now too premature to require legislative proposals and budget proposals that include the municipal sector, and assumes that the government will come back to the Stortinget when we know what this is all about. Thus, through the agreement of the committee to the legislative proposal, we will strengthen the framework conditions for ideal service providers. The vast majority of the organisations that have spoken on the occasion of the case also point to the value of the ideals, but we need to go more broadly to work, so that the ideals actually get priority and can solve more tasks in the sector. Then one cannot introduce the Swedish model, as the government statement states in what is then called the ‘free choice’. «Free choice of company» would probably have been more right, for it is in this case that commercial operators are treated in the same way as non-profit service providers. There must be coherence in politics, in what we do from day to day. The government must then also deliver what the Stortinget has asked for, and set a concrete target for growth in the share of the overall health care sector to be organised and run as a non-profit activity. We want more ideal service providers. We have ambitions, and we want to get there faster than it seems the government will. Because I have a clear impression that the eagerness to bring forward more commercial players trumps the ideal ambition of the sitting government, unfortunately. With this I address the proposal we have within the scope of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e486	Then the representative, Tore Hagebakken, mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e491	So I was the case rapporteur on the timing of the historical pension expenditure of non-profit actors, and the Committee has agreed that the debate on this matter should be merged with the debate on the law on grants for certain private activities, which it has started with. First of all, a few words about the historical pension costs of non-profit actors: this case is a proposal from the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Olaug V. Bollestad and Kjell Ingolf Ropstad of the Christian People's Party. The case is based on a recommendation from the Hippe Committee that the State should compensate pension costs for non-profit institutions providing or having provided statutory child protection services and specialist health services for which the State is now responsible. It may also be appropriate to find solutions in other industries and service areas providing services in agreement with the country. In the budget for 2019, the government proposed 30 million. kr to a grant scheme to cover the historical pension costs of non-profit institutions and some other enterprises relating to a public occupational pension scheme. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party strengthened the budget by an additional 18 million. kr. The Health and Welfare Committee agrees that the ideal actors in the field of health and welfare should have stable and predictable conditions, and there is room for more ideal actors in several areas of care, which we welcome. There is agreement to investigate the economic consequences of covering the historical pension costs of NPISHs for the municipal and county sectors. The investigation shall also consider whether the coverage should be achieved by extending the application-based grant scheme agreed in the 2019 Budget Agreement. As a result, the majority of the Committee does not recommend that the draft representative be adopted at this stage but will wait until the investigation has been completed. So over to the bill on grants to certain private enterprises with a public occupational pension scheme: this is also a case of historical pension costs. Here we refer from the government parties to the agreement on the state budget for 2019, where there was an agreement to strengthen this budget line by 18 million. kr in relation to the original draft budget. The agreement involves agreeing to extend the application-based grant scheme for the historical pension costs incurred by NPISHs to pension costs incurred up to and including 1 January 2019. In this matter, the Committee is united in its recommendation on the adoption of a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e508	The central party supports the current legislative proposal to compensate providers of statutory specialised health services and state child protection services for historical pension costs, and that this compensation scheme is statutory. We also support the proposal of the Christian People's Party for an application-based system that includes all non-profit actors who have provided services to the public, including at a lower level of government, and who have received public support for the operation of services that are socially useful and which include services other than child protection and specialist health services. There's a minority following up. Of course, the last thing has to work out, but we think it is very dangerous if this work is delayed, because it is actually a small political will to prioritize it. We think this is urgent. We believe that it must be given priority, and we suggest that there must be an arrangement for this in the state budget for 2020. It is exactly the same problem for the non-profit sector that provides services to municipal or other state areas, as for those with agreements in the area of child protection and health care. In fact, a proposal should have been made for the whole sector, and not limited to certain governmental sectors. Several hearing statements just pointed to this. In addition, some pointed out that labour market measures, which have been part of public service production, should be included. The Hippe Selection concluded that the compensation scheme they proposed only applies to services delivered to the State. But they also wrote that this was in line with the mandate. The selection pointed out that the corresponding problem settings also apply to enterprises that provide and have provided health and social services to municipalities. There are also companies that have deliveries both to the state and local government within the same enterprise and the same pension scheme in KLP. In the setting, the government party writes that they believe that municipalities should consider covering the historical pension costs of non-profit actors that have provided services to the municipal sector. I thought it was a little special to write this. For what does one mean? Does it mean that municipalities should take this out of their own economy? If they think so, it's a disclaimer. Of course, the municipalities that assess this must expect these funds to come from the state as earmarked funds. So I believe, as the representative Tore Hagebakken, that it is critical that the government has not yet followed up the 2016 decision to ask the government to set a target for growth in that part of the health and care sector that is to be organised and driven as a non-profit enterprise, and in an appropriate way present this to the Stortinget with a plan for short-term and long-term action to achieve it. The worst thing is that the government thinks they have done it – that it is the opposition in Stortinget that has said no, this has not been delivered on. I doubt that the government has a real desire to increase the amount of non-profit activity at the expense of commercials. We need a political clarification on what will be, what the goal is, and how much the contribution will be. What we are discussing today is, of course, the means of making this happen – equal to competition. The representative, Tore Hagebakken, also pointed out that the government platform is clear about other policies such as debt. There is increased competition between the private and public sectors which should be the relevant principle. In such a policy, they come into disrepute. What we need is good, long-term agreements with the non-profit sector, based on quality, where the ideal provider is perceived as an integral part of the public sector. I want to wish the Christian People's Party good luck in government, because I know they'll fight for the non-profit sector, but I think it has to be a test. I would like to address the proposal that the Central Party has with SV. Then I would also like to inform you that we are going to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Labour Party in Innst. 155 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e529	The representative has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e534	I would like to thank the representative of Toppe for his congratulations. I'll take that with me. I know that the Central Party honors everyone who burns for the non-profit sector, and there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has on several occasions just lifted the non-profit sector. On several occasions, we have also addressed what has to do with the historical pension costs, which this sector has borne for a long time, and for which we have on several occasions challenged the government to look at and find a solution. Now we're far on our way there that we seem to have succeeded. We have been able – at the latest in the 2019 budget agreement – to raise the threshold from what the Hippe Committee pointed to, where a threshold was set at 2010. We got it promised until 2019, which is now also taken care of in the billing proposal. So I just want to remind you that I think it might make sense for the opposition parties to read in the government platform about what's about the non-profit sector, that they're going in and reading what's under the food chapter. There's an offensive initiative in the non-profit sector, and it's worth noting that those who organize a lot of non-profit sector are very pleased with what's come into the platform. I can guarantee that the Christian People's Party will work every day to realize the points that have come into place in this platform. We don't lean back again and believe that everything solves itself just by the Christian People's Party having entered the government. This is a continuous work that the Christian People's Party is going to follow up. So to this that applies to measures to increase the ideal share in this sector. Yes, I agree with some of the criticisms that the government has not followed up a large majority. However, the platform has put in place the government to provide just such a target for the 2020 budget. So already in the autumn, the government will deliver on this. I look forward to what the government, which now also includes the Christian People's Party, will come up with by suggestion. In the child protection sector, we have a measure that the ideal share will increase to 40 pst. by 2025. I have a expectation that there will also be a significant increase in the ideal share of health, care, etc. I recommend reading the government platform, reading about what we've got in place in terms of the non-profit sector. That's where it's very good. I think we have a lot of good policies waiting for this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e547	In the 1970s, it was often perceived that pay and pension schemes for non-profit employees providing health and care services to the public should be similar to those for government employees. Many have therefore had public occupational pension schemes for their employees. Such a scheme also follows so-called historical pension costs. There are costs that have to be paid long after the end of the service, which are therefore perceived as a disability, among other things. in competition with others. I am pleased that we can finally adopt a law to compensate those who have provided statutory specialist health services and state child protection services for these costs. The grant will provide a better framework for ideals for drug treatment, mental health protection, rehabilitation, child protection institutions and centres for parents and children. This is an important contribution to achieving the objective of growth in the share of health and care services organised and run by non-profit activities. The bill is based on the primary recommendations of NOU 2016: 12 Ideally clean-up. However, as a result of the agreement in budgetary negotiations, the Committee's position has changed significantly. The grant is proposed on the basis of pension entitlements earned before 1 January 2019 instead of 1 January 2010. This change provides a significantly better coverage for the activities, it meets the wishes of many hearing bodies, and it takes much into account the proposal in Document 8:235 S on the historical pension expenditure of non-profit actors, which was promoted by the representatives of Ropstad, Hareide and Bollestad. The grant scheme will run as long as there are pensioners and survivors with rights, i.e. towards the year 2100. The applicant's activities must take part in the scheme once and then provide the information on which the annual grant decision is based. The Government intends to adopt the grant scheme regulation as soon as possible so that the application process can start. The regulation must be laid down in two stages. The detailed regulation of the calculation of grants must also be consulted before it can be determined. I am pleased that the scheme for suppliers to countries and regional health companies is not being postponed pending a solution that will also apply to suppliers in the local government sector. That being said, it is important to start an investigation into explaining the breadth of the responsibilities of the idea. The scope is not known. The need for investigation is extensive and there may be wide variations between municipalities and municipalities. The government will therefore investigate the economic consequences of covering the historical pension costs of non-profit institutions for the municipal and county sectors with a view to being covered by the municipalities and county municipalities. The investigation shall also consider whether the coverage should be achieved by extending the currently examined application-based grant scheme. I also feel that this investigation mission is in line with the intention of the draft representative to be discussed at the same time. This is a historic day, and it includes historical pension costs. But anyone who has followed this debate for the last decade, at least, knows that there is no obvious reason that this law is passed today and that this arrangement will come into place. Now the government, with the Christian People's Party, has done it as many of the parties that criticise the government today, thought it was almost impossible when they put themselves in charge. It just shows that there is a difference between words and actions in terms of the view of ideals and the willingness to support ideals. This government, with the Christian People's Party, shows action, while for the opposition there has been a lot of words, especially when they are not in a position to carry out their promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e568	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e573	As stated by the Council of State, the legislative decision today is important for the framework conditions for non-profit service providers, for which this is the case. But then it's about the way forward. We in the Workers' Party say that it is too premature to demand some extensions now, but we want to get facts out, an investigation. How soon will the Council of States be able to produce the facts we need? How does the Council of State see funding to be covered?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e579	As I said in my post, the investigation work must begin quickly. How long it takes, we don't know now, because, as the representative was inside, this is complicated. It is more complicated than the issues covered by this case. This includes historical pension costs related to county and municipal activities. Of course, if these are to be covered historically, it's natural that it's just the municipalities and the counties that cover it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e584	Geir Jørgen Bekkewold referred to positive terms, or more formally: formulations, in the government declaration on ideals. But at the same time, we talk about free user choice – according to the Swedish model, I have to underline. Swedish model means that commercial operators are treated in the same way as ideals. What's the most important thing – what Bekkew refers to, or what's written about the Swedish model and equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e589	If the representative Hagebakken reads the entire Granavolden statement, he will find many very clear wordings about the government's view of the ideals and about the willingness to prioritise ideals. He can also look at what has been done in action, for example. the reservation of tenders in the health regions to ideals. We made sure that the ideal drug institutions adopted by the Stoltenberg government were actually given the opportunity to survive because of the government shift in 2013 and now operate and treat patients like never before. There is a significant difference between the Working Party and the Right in the view of ideals. Right they think the ideals have a value in themselves, and they want to add value to society. When I hear the rhetoric from the Workers' Party, it's that ideals have one value, and that's that they're going to be used in the fight against commercials. There is a significant difference between the Right and the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e596	First of all, I would like to disagree in that way with our policy. We're at least as concerned with non-profit as the government parties are, because it has great value. At the same time, we clearly prioritise the ideals in front of the commercial ones. So to the question, does the Council of State see any negative aspects of the Swedish model when we talk about free user choice, or is it just joy and fun and copying?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e609	The Granavolden platform does not say that Norway should copy the Swedish model; it says that one should carry out an investigation to ensure more user choice in the municipalities. And in that investigation, we will, among other things, look to the Swedish model. I think that's a good idea. But we should also look at experiences from Denmark and other countries in such work. The aim is to ensure that users have greater freedom of choice in their everyday lives. There is also a clear political distinction between this government and the Workers' Party. We're looking at getting the opportunity to pick as a value itself. In fact, many, especially older people, in Norway today are not satisfied with the services they receive from their municipality. Today they have a right to complain. I would like to see that they also had a swap right, that they actually had the opportunity to choose one of the most fundamental and important things in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e614	I will follow up on the previous speaker. What is on the government platform, including on free choice and the Swedish model, give cause for concern. Is it the case that for the Council of State and Government, the most important competition is for patients to choose, i.e. that competition itself is the most important? And when it comes to ideals, is it most important that they win an offer? Or is it a value in itself that the ideals are strengthened at the expense of the commercial private ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e619	The answer to that is simple: what matters to the government is the choice of the individual, it has a self-value. Getting the opportunity to make choices in some of life's most important areas adds value to the individual. We have introduced free treatment choices in the specialist health service. This gives a great deal of value to patients such as: is able to choose to get the drug treatment that they think is right for them. What we also see is that the free choice of treatment in the specialist healthcare service has made it possible for non-profit institutions that have lost their tender – in a properly-protected tender, where only ideals have the opportunity to participate but have lost – nevertheless do not need to be closed, precisely because they sign up for the free treatment choice system and can continue because patients want to choose them. It puts the individual person in front of systems, and it's government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e626	Thanks for the answer. I need to expand on one thing. When it's the most important choice, does it mean that it's the same for the government and the government whether it's a private non-profit provider that wins a deal, or whether it's a private commercial? We get freedom of choice anyway, but at least for the Center Party, there's a big difference between whether we get a growth in private commercial, or whether the growth happens in private ideals. This is where I think the government stands far from both the Center Party and some Christian People's Party, and I think it is important that the Council of State responds honestly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e631	As one sees in the government platform, ideal has a self-esteem for this government. We have a number of points in the platform that are about how we're going to build up under non-profit activities, screen non-profit activities and support up under non-profit activities, because we believe that this is a third sector in our society, which adds added values to society that neither public nor private schemes can represent. This is why the government has a number of policy areas that build up under ideal opportunities, including: what we are doing today by compensating for the historical pension costs, and what I have done by demanding that there be separate offers for ideals, and that one should also demand that one maintain and increase the number of ideals. We are returning to the 2020 state budget with the aim of increasing the use of ideals in the health and care sector, overall. But for the user, it is the freedom of choice that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e636	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e644	I have a short comment. There has been a lot of talk about the government platform, and we've been asked to read it, especially what it says about nutrition and competition. I actually read that chapter. I've read through some government platforms, and I know that what's the principle and ideological in the health field is exactly in that chapter. It is assumed that one does not assess the production of health and care services in any way other than the production of other goods and services. It stood in the government platform in 2013. It's a clean word for the money. Now it's a slightly different variant, but it's actually the same thing as it says. The government platform that came this year says: «The government will pursue a policy in which the public sector cooperates more closely with the business sector in which the private sector has the capacity and competence to contribute to new solutions and better services.» Furthermore, it says that the government will «implement measures to ensure a level playing field between the public and private sectors so that more private service providers can contribute more to the achievement of the Community's tasks». A free user choice is included in municipalities, according to the Swedish model, and the extension of free treatment options. The entire platform is thus permeated by competition policy, which is the government's solution to develop the public sector and health and care services. Yes, it's a great chapter in the government platform on the non-profit sector – it's supposed to have a Christian People's Party – but our criticism doesn't work. Our criticism is that the food chapter and what is described as the big solution for the public sector can strike in the whole of the other proposals. It's our concern. You can't have both a bag and a bag. Should one have such a tough competition policy in the public sector, where one reduces the municipalities to become market players that are supposed to be providers in line with other, private actors, they are going to be ideal squandered, because we have a situation in Norway with large, commercial companies that look at Norway as an attractive health market. Ideas don't stand to lose an offer, while big, commercial players can take the loss of an offer, because they have muscles around them and can take it financially. Therefore, such a competition policy is a threat to the non-profit sector – a far greater danger than what I experience is being communicated out in this room. So I support the concerns of the representative Tore Hagebakken, and then we'll see. In any case, I needed to elaborate on this precisely when we have a case on the framework conditions for the non-profit sector for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e665	It may be that the representative Toppe has read the government platform. In that case, she has had the Centre's red-green glasses on her, because the quote she drew out is a quote that, among other things, is. is linked to the health nutrition message that the government is about to provide, and that I experience has broad support in Stortinget, that we are going to work to develop a health industry in Norway in a cooperation between health care and industry. It's an important part of finding new solutions to how to provide people with better health care, but it's also an important part of creating a new, profitable industry in this country. Once again, I hear that what really makes the heart of both the Central Party and the Workers' Party beat for the non-profit sector is when they're going to use the non-profit sector to squander other private actors. It's completely legitimate, it's their motivation. Our motivation is the value of the non-profit sector itself – that the non-profit sector does not need to operate within the framework of the public sector, does not need to operate within the framework of the private sector, and not least that they add the added value of volunteering and idealism. The Norwegian welfare community has not been fully developed once and for all, and we very often see that it is just the non-profit sector that sees new areas and new people falling outside and offers them an offer. Since then, it often becomes part of the public service. That story is not over, and that is why we need to take care of the non-profit sector further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e672	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e677	If my one quote was related to health nutrition, there are unfortunately many other points in the government platform that go on what is going on with the public sector, for example. ‘making it possible to allow private operators to compete to provide publicly funded services where appropriate’. There's a lot of examples like this, so it's pretty clear what the government wants. For example, in the case of: child protection, says ‘40 per cent’ as a target, but one has removed the last paragraph of the sentence that was in the decision on child protection, that this should not affect the public sector. So one has removed the principle that this is going to go beyond commercial private ones. It is an incredibly important clarification - it is not included in the government platform. If I read with red-green glasses, at least it is better than not to see clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e686	The representative Toppe was just at the heart of the difference between us and the red-greens, that is, where it makes sense, we think that we should facilitate other alternative providers – whether they are ideal or private. Our policy base is to provide the best possible healthcare – and also in other areas of society – for our citizens, so that they get the most out of the common resources we use. In some cases, there may be private providers doing this. I am interested to know if the Central Party believes that other public services are best done under public law. Do they agree with the red-greens who want to re-communalize over a low shoe? There are a number of fields where private people are inside today. One does not have to go further than when a build hospital. Most of the subjects involved there are private actors. Is it true that private entrepreneurs, painters and other groups are in and provide our health budgets? There's something out of the ordinary about the approach. Our approach is: we want to work to get the best out of the health funds, that we provide freedom of choice, and that the public is challenged, because they need it. In some cases, they are ideal, in others, other, more commercial actors may be the best. Anyway, the most important thing for us is that we have a pressure on the public sector in terms of costs, and then we can get good help from other actors, including commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e695	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e711	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e720	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for drawing attention to a very serious social problem. One child exposed to violence or assault is one too many. I am pleased that the entire committee is united behind a desire to prevent violence and abuse. Fortunately, this works well at all levels, both in municipalities and in government. Knowledge of the consequences for children who are subjected to violence and abuse means that we must act. We know that children can get lifelong injuries, and it reduces life and opportunities and leads to traumas that also get into adult life. It is a painful fact that we do not have the power to prevent all violence – that children are subjected to sexual assault no matter what we have to decide here in the hall. This means that we must ensure vulnerable children the very best treatment we can offer once the damage has happened. We know that the municipality has a duty to provide child victims with the necessary help and support, but that it can fail in the municipality's monitoring of children and families who have experienced sexual abuse or violence in close relationships. In some cases, justice and specialist health services also fail. We also know that these are families who need coordinated services and often long-term follow-up at several levels of government. We know that services vary from municipality to municipality, and then we don't have an equivalent help offer for all children. An overall health and care committee does not accept that the good forces to assist children and families do not play with each other. The government parties will not support the proposals that have been made here today. It's not because we're against them, but because it's already working well with this in the government. I can assure the proposers that this is an area where the government has full pressure. A number of measures are in place to improve the supply of children and families who have experienced violence in close relationships. In addition, the government will present an economic commitment – and I stress commitments – to the escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. I understand that it may be difficult to read government platforms, they're coming on a rolling line, but in this case it's quite obvious: the government has been, is and will continue to be a driver for developing good models of cooperation and coordination of services. A number of investigative work is already in progress to strengthen the coordination and coordination of services for vulnerable children and young people. I would therefore like to thank you once again for drawing attention to an area of high and continuous political awareness. As I said at the outset, one child is exposed to violence or sexual assault is one too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e737	As has been said from the pulpit here: Many children experience violence and abuse – and too many of their closest friends. Home is not a safe place for everyone. We have a lot of numbers, but the numbers of darkness are, unfortunately, significant. Bufdir reports that 21 pst. of young people today have been subjected to physical violence by their parents, 6 p.m. has been subjected to severe violence, 8 p.m. has experienced violence between parents, and 15 pst. Norwegian men and women report having been sexually assaulted before the age of 18. In addition, we know that a large part of sexual abuse against children is committed by other children. This is overwhelming numbers. In every nursery and in every school there is someone who needs the community as much as possible. We are discovering more and more, and the police and society have taken significant steps in the right direction in the fight against violence and abuse in close relations. That's good. But we also see that the police need increased resources to meet the increased volume of cases. But the fact that assault and violence are discovered does not necessarily mean that the children get the help they would have had afterwards. Auxiliaries are simply not good enough. Gradually, we know quite a lot about what it does to a small person to be subjected to violence or abuse: persistent health problems, consequences for neurological, cognitive and emotional development, association problems, social withdrawal, sleep difficulties, learning difficulties, aggression problems and anxiety. The list is long. Nevertheless, we are unable to ensure that these children receive good follow-up in retrospect. Maybe there's no need there after one week, two weeks or three weeks. But when the need arises, it should be obvious that the right help was in place at the right time and well coordinated. If the help is in place, it depends too much on individuals and random acquaintances. Nationally, we have not ensured that the children who are discovered, those we know are exposed to violence and abuse, and who need the help as much as possible, get these services well coordinated. The Children's Ombudsman's report is crystal clear. Children experience a fragmented and deficient follow-up offer. The Labour Party has promoted this proposal precisely in order to ensure that the children receive proper timely and well-coordinated assistance. Unfortunately, the government parties are voting against this proposal today, a proposal that could make a difference, and refer to years of long investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e750	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e755	Yes, I'm dealing with the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e760	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e765	There is hardly anything that makes me more upset than matters that deal with violence and abuse against children and young people. Part of what happens is simply not to understand — that young children and young people should be exposed to this kind of evil. It's incredibly good that there's more openness now, that it's more revealed, and that the police are in those arenas where these abuses happen, even though we know that a lot also happens where the police don't see. For children and young people, home should be the place where they can relax, the place where they should feel safe, the place where they should be able to be themselves. We know that for some children and young people the home is the most unsafe place they are. For others, there is an unsafe place outside the walls of the house. What you see related to child abuse, for example. online – people who lure and abuse children – is so terrible that society has a duty to do everything we can to help. I am extremely pleased that the government is giving priority to this. When it is revealed, it is also incredibly important that those who have been exposed to it receive help in a good way. Some of these are marked for life regardless of whether they get help, but the help can be relieved. Others are able to live on, function well, and share in the opportunities our society offers them. This is why a good helper is so incredibly important — that different agencies cooperate, and that someone takes responsibility and makes sure that they coordinate their work. Therefore, I am pleased that the government is now investigating a statutory obligation for the municipality to appoint an instance or establish a separate function that will be responsible for coordinating all those responsible for these services. We don't have to start any more investigations now, but we need to get past what's going on, and conclude there. For an accessible list of the auxiliaries, see young.no, on dinuitway.no, on bufdir.no. There's no more overviews we need, but we need to make those that exist, more familiar among children and young people and those that need to find them. I am extremely pleased that the government is giving priority to this work. It is one of the most important things a society should do: to care for our children and young people who need our help.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e780	The Barneombodet’s report entitled ‘Had we received help in the past, everything had been different’, which came in 2018, shows a large gap in the follow-up provision of children who have been subjected to violence and violence. The central party is therefore involved in a proposal together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party to ask the government to draw up an overview that is readily available on the assistance available to children who are victims of violence and sexual abuse and their families in the municipalities of the country. The government party refers to Master all his life, a strategy for good mental health. It says: ‘The Government will also consider legalising an obligation for the municipality to appoint an instance or to set up a separate function that will be responsible for coordinating assistance services for children and young people.’ It also says that one should: ‘investigated a provision in the statutory cooperation agreements between the municipal health and care services and the specialist health service on cooperation for children and young people with the need for services from both levels. This provision may cover more sectors than health and care services.» The center party thinks there's no need to evaluate or figure this out. This is an actual decision to adopt only. We already have requirements in the municipal health and care services law for coordinators for users with long-term needs. And now, simply imposing a legal obligation on municipalities to point out an instance, a service, which is responsible for coordinating the provision of violence and abuse for children and young people, without providing guidance for what kind of instance it should be. Local authorities must be given a choice, but they must have an obligation to point this out. So we have an alternative proposal where we go further than the Labour Party, which will also work out. We want the government to make a proposal for a statutory obligation for municipalities to point out such an entity, and also a proposal to get this into the statutory cooperation agreements between municipalities and health professionals. The center party is not against giving children an explicit right to coordinate services, but the most important thing now is that we get the instance they should be able to turn to. There is already a responsibility in today's law to facilitate interaction between different sub-services where it is necessary to provide services to users. With this, I will deal with the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e803	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e808	We've all been very happy with this sentence: a good childhood lasts life. But we must also dare to take on the opposite: a broken childhood can also last out. I fully agree with the representative Sylvi Listhaug in her description of how some children experience their everyday lives, those who experience being exposed to the most serious things. It's like you have to dare to see it to even believe it. What almost becomes unbearable is the fact that for some children, the family, the home — what should be the safe haven where children can be helped to deal with the challenges that society is facing them — the most dangerous arena they can find. And I totally agree -- it's our duty, it's the duty of society, to stand up for these children. We're going to do what we can. It is this that has been the driving force behind the work of the Christian People's Party to put in place an escalation plan that is just about to combat violence against children. I'm incredibly happy that we got a majority in the Storting in the last period for that, and that the government is now working actively to put this escalation plan into practice. I am also very pleased that it is the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, Kjell Ingolf Rupstad from the Christian People's Party, who is now sitting and is to have the coordinating responsibility for this important work. This does not just rest on the Minister of Health’s shoulders. There are several state councils that have been given a very concrete responsibility to follow up this escalation plan, and I am looking forward to it being realised. Although the obligation to cooperate and coordinate services is already apparent in a number of legislative acts, this is a challenge that requires action in several areas. The government has now started an investigation, and we're excited about what the government will come up with. If legislative changes or other measures are proposed following such an investigation, they will also be important in view of children exposed to violence and abuse. And in view of the proposals put forward in the motion for a resolution No 8, we do not therefore support them. We're waiting for this investigation to be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e822	The government will prioritise efforts to combat violence and abuse against children, rape and violence in close relations. Although many children and young people receive good and coordinated help, too many people still feel that the service provision is fragmented. In order to ensure comprehensive services for children and young people, better coordination of services is needed. With regard to the representatives' proposal to draw up an overview of assistance services in their municipalities for children who are exposed to violence and sexual abuse, and their families, I point out that there are already several places providing such information. Young people are the public information channel for young people with a question-and-answer service. It provides quality information on issues related to body, health, sexuality, violence and assault. There is also an overview of youth relief services that are subject to violence or sexual abuse. Furthermore, dinuit.no provides an overview of assistance, information and knowledge about violence in close relationships, rape and other sexual abuses. Bufdir.no provides a detailed overview of the assistance services provided to those who are exposed to violence. In the escalation plan against violence and abuse, the government has committed itself to providing better information on violence and abuse to the general population and to specific groups. This is ongoing work, and we will consider how to strengthen the information on assistance to children and young people. So to the proposal on measures for better cooperation and coordination of relief services and the proposal for a general legalisation of children and young people's rights to coordinated services. I point out that legal action is now being investigated to contribute to more holistic and better coordinated services, in line with Master's life – the Government's strategy for good mental health. The investigation includes: how to better coordinate services for children and young people, including in relation to the coordination of individual sectoral plans. An investigation is also carried out into the possible legalisation of an obligation on the part of municipalities to designate an entity or to establish a separate function to coordinate assistance services for children and young people. If the investigation leads to proposed legislative changes or other measures, they will also be important for children exposed to violence and abuse. As the majority points out, this investigation should therefore be awaited before any new investigation is initiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e837	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e842	As the head of health care in the country, I am sure that the Council of State takes the utmost seriously what the Children’s Ombudsman describes in his report – when there is a demanding situation and children and young people do not meet an auxiliaries meeting their needs. In the letter to the Committee, former State Council Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, which was also referred to by the Council of State itself, describes an ongoing investigation. Then I'm excited: how long are we going to wait for this investigation work? When can we expect municipalities to have a duty to ensure that there is one service that has the overall responsibility, and how will the Council of State bear this responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e849	That's right: this is a very serious area. We see in several areas that coordination is just failing. In many of the cases that the media have also uncovered in recent years related to children and young people who have not received the help they should have had, the analysis is often in retrospect that the various agencies that we have set up to help have not been properly coordinated, and thus society has failed. That's why this is a very important work, which we are doing well, and which has also been reinforced by the new government platform, and we will of course do this work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e854	We're waiting in suspense, and there's no doubt that the children need these changes now. In this setting, and in several articles, reference is made to the forthcoming escalation plan for the mental health of children and young people. There are high expectations that this will be an obliging escalation plan that will meet many of the challenges these children face. Then I wonder: will this really be an economically binding plan of escalation, or will we see the same thing as happened with the plan of escalation against violence and abuse? We have to look at every budget, and we're waiting and looking at what's left of heads and ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e861	As also emerges from the government platform, this should be an obliging stepping-up plan for children and young people’s mental health. So the representative knows well that the money for the various measures comes in the annual budgets. Now we are working well on this escalation plan, and as we have also announced to Stortinget, we aim to present it during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e866	It is referred from the government party to the mental health strategy, Masters throughout his life, and that it says that the government will evaluate an obligation for municipalities to appoint an agency responsible for coordinating the provision of help to children and young people, and this by extending the agreements between municipalities and hospitals to the same groups. I'm actually in agreement with the Council of State that there is no need for new statements. I think what's in the strategy is very good. But we're more impatient. Now it is two years since that strategy was put forward. Why does it take such a long time to evaluate this? The center party thinks this is a very good idea, and that one should be able to adopt it, with the necessary preconceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e873	Yes, we're in the process of figuring this out. The new government platform has been reinforced, in addition to the strategy, in this area. It will also be found under what is the new equilateral reform. So working on this has a high priority in the government. I agree that it is important to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e878	Then I understand that it is being worked to get a statutory duty. How long does the Council of State notice that it will take you to bring a case to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e883	You're allowed to try. But as the representative Toppe knows, we can't notify things until we formally notify them to the Stortinget, but this is working on it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e888	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e896	What is positive about the debate we have had today is that the parties will compete to have the best policy for the vulnerable children. That's amazing. There has been more transparency in recent years on the subject of violence and abuse. We've improved on prevention. Nevertheless, much remains to be done. I myself have been rapporteur in the municipality of Ski. There we work on a program called Safe Locality. One of the things we did in the Ski Municipality was to say that the fight against violence and abuse was to be the main initiative in that program. We've worked a lot on the physical environment in the past: traffic safety, safe school roads, etc., but as many people have been in here today, it's for someone at home that's the most unsafe place, and we have to do something about it. What we have done in Ski Municipality is, among other things, working to strengthen children’s own competences to set limits on their own bodies. We have had professional days for employees in kindergartens and schools. We have programmes for children both in kindergartens and at several levels in schools to improve their skills themselves. As I said, we've improved on transparency, and we've improved on prevention. But what I know as a former municipal politician I've missed is that we have to get better on the whole chain. We need to improve interaction between municipalities and specialist health services, and we need to improve treatment provision after abuse and violence have been detected in a family. This is about offers for those who have been victimised, but – not least – an offer for those who commit an assault. As colleague Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen was in the room, it is actually such that many sexual abuses are committed by other children. These are children who also need treatment. Finally, I would like to say something about the coming municipality of Nordre Follo. After all, we are going to merge with our neighbouring municipality of Oppegård. Here, the Nordre Follo Workers' Party has an innovative feature in its municipal election program. We simply go to the elections to make the municipality of Nordre Follo a non-violent zone. Many people might think it sounds naive, but if we don't set hairy targets, where do we end up? The fact that no one should experience violence or abuse, that we really have an ambition about it, a vision that it should not take place in our municipality, I think it is good, and we could have had that for the whole country too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e907	I think it is good that there are several representatives who are upset and impatient. But I also record that the Christian People's Party, perhaps after they joined the government, has become a little less impatient and a little more satisfied with the government's policy. Reference is made to the coordination of this work by the current Council of State, Ropstad, and it is now extremely pleased with the plan of escalation against violence and abuse — a stepping-up plan that has been described by several as a problem description. I am even tempted to use Roppstad's own words about the plan, which was: "I was tempted to return the whole plan to the government, so poor and not obligating, I think it is." This is the document that should be the lighthouse in the work against violence and assault. The plan is not binding enough, it is not good enough, and it has been described by several as a problem description. I would like the Christian People's Party to bring with it its burning commitment to the government to actually ensure that this was done something, to make sure that these plans became financially binding, and to make sure that there was a real change. The Children’s Ombudsman has pointed out that there are gaps in several laws. In the Children’s Hospital Act, the Education Act, the Social Services Act, the Child Protection Act, the Crisis Centre Act, the Health and Care Services Act – in several laws – there are formulations dealing with coordination and coordination, but the wording is different, and in some places it is even regulated and not legal. It creates ambiguities for those who are going to work in the field. It's not the same wording, it's not coordinated. There is a need for overall general law-making of coordination obligations. This is the Children's Ombudsman crystal clear on, and I couldn't agree more. There is a need to seal the holes, there is a need to ensure that this becomes a general obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e919	I would like to accept the call that the representative of Björnebeck-Waagen now joins the Christian People's Party, a call to ensure that the plan of escalation becomes concrete, and that it has instruments that make a difference. Thanks for the invitation – we will take it on a tight arm. I just want to say a little bit about what was said about the child and family minister's statement when the government came up with this escalation plan for the first time. Yes, it was a stepping-up plan that was not binding enough. Then we did something different than what the Workers' Party did, because the Workers' Party wanted to send it back. What we did in the Christian People's Party was to sit down and promote a whole series of concrete measures, which we got in place in this escalation plan. So we did not passively just send it back – in the hope that the government would understand something – we chose to sit down and do a thorough job. That's why the escalation plan has become like it has, and we're going to follow up on what we've got in place there. The call from Björnebeck-Waagen to make sure it becomes concrete, and that it makes a difference, we take it on a tight arm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e928	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e933	I think it is great that the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold takes the challenge on a tight arm, and I really hope that they will succeed in that work. When the Workers' Party chose to ask the government to draw up a new escalation plan, it is about this being a stepping-up plan that was fundamentally not good enough. There were themes that were left out, and it was not financially obligating. Decorating on it by small decisions in Stortinget has not sealed the holes. And even though the Christian People's Party has received several suggestions in the plan, the money still doesn't follow. When we get the budgets, we see year after year that there are small heads that come with the escalating plan. When the crowns do not follow, it does not help that the Christian People's Party has been able to take advantage of any proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e940	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e952	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1023	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1033	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1042	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals from the State budget for 2020 for a grant scheme to cover historical pension costs that includes all non-profit actors who have provided services to the public, including at a lower level of government, who have received government grants for the operation of services that are socially useful and which also cover services other than child protection and specialist health services.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1068	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the economic impact of covering the historical pension costs of NPISHs for the municipal and county sectors and for non-profit-making non-suppliers of government specialist health services and child protection services and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1087	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1092	We're correcting that. Then there will be 50 votes against and 45 votes in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1104	Behind the advice are the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1120	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose how one municipal service can exercise overall responsibility in the municipality to identify needs and monitor children and families who have experienced violence in close relations. In such an investigation, the role of municipal health care should be assessed separately.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the general legalisation of children and young people’s rights to coordinated services and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1156	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Four and five from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a statutory obligation for municipalities to appoint an agency responsible for coordinating assistance services for vulnerable children and young people in the municipality.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a provision in the statutory cooperation agreements between the municipal health and health services and the specialist health services ensuring cooperation on vulnerable children and young people who need services from both levels.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1187	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a public and easily accessible overview of the facilities available to children for violence and sexual assault and their families in the municipalities of the country. In order to ensure good help for more children, the overview needs to be made quickly and it needs to be ensured that both schools, students and different health services in municipalities are made aware of this overview.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-14.ana.ud221e1212	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
