ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e90	Representatives Kari Henriksen, Abid Q. Raja, Åsmund Aukrust, Toril Eidsheim, Else-May Botten Norderhus, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Eirik Sivertsen, Jonny Finstad, Siv Mossleth, Guri Melby and Lene Westgaard-Halle, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following alternates shall now sit: For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Sandum For South-Trondelag: Kristian Torve Two permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative of Marianne Haukland from 28 May until further notice from the representative of Une Bastholm on sick leave from 28 May until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the permission of the representative of Une Bastholm for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives Vetle Langedahl, for Finnmark County, and Kristoffer Robin Haug, for Oslo, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e177	Vetle Langedahl and Kristoffer Robin Haug are present and will take the seat. For the period from 23 October 2018 to 17 June 2019, the authorised parental leave of the representative, Tina Bru, is notified by the Råres Storingsgruppe that it will apply until 10 June 2019. – This message is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e195	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e200	On behalf of myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative on an external examination of the Food Safety Authority. I request that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e205	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e210	I would like to make a proposal on fair and social alternatives to tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e215	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e225	The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen and Kari Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen and Kari Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents of today’s meeting. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 24 May 2019: ‘Changes among the State Secretaries. State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 24 May 2019 at 9.30 p.m. 11 a.m. under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: State Secretary Torkil Åmland is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for the Jøran André Smedal Kallmyr State Council in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Advocate General Kristoffer Sivertsen is appointed State Secretary to the Jøran André Smedal Kallmyr State Council in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. These amendments shall take effect from 24 May 2019 at the latest. 12:00.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e262	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Green Party 10 minutes, Red 10 minutes and Government 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be up to four replies from the main speakers of the parties. The President will also propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be given an opportunity to reply to comments by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e277	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in dealing with this great and important communication. It is also apparent from a long statement from the Committee that there have been many opinions and disagreements. It is positive in such a big and important matter as the opportunity message is. It's important when we're going to discuss this, to start by defining whether all the inequality is wrong. There are differences that result in free choice, so simply in a family, for example. have chosen to go into a position, move to the country, work less and be more with their children, while others choose to stay in the middle of the city, work a lot and thus also have higher income. There's inequality between these families, but there's inequality as a result of two families taking free choice from the life they want to live. There are also inequalities that arise as a result of political choices that you want to make. When there was a refugee crisis in Europe, there was an agreement here on the Stortinget where the Stortinget said our country would accept 8 000 Syrian quota refugees. There are many good, high-ranking, right arguments that a rich country like Norway does, but the inequality in Norway does come up somewhat when the 8 000 people come to the country. When we had a financial crisis in 2008, hundreds of billions of dollars disappeared at Oslo Exchange. The inequality went down in Norway, but no one got better, so inequality is not the only parameter we can measure from if things go well or bad. That doesn't mean that big inequality isn't a problem if, for example, The inequality becomes too great, as can be seen in countries like the United States, where management wages gallop from farms and become very high compared to the incomes of ordinary people, who are lagging behind in wage developments, or if the inequalities are not the result of different choices but of different possibilities. There are countries where children go to elite schools, given that they have the right background, while others go to other schools. And then the inequality is going to be huge. It's not a development we want in Norway, and fortunately it doesn't. The situation in our country is – if you include our welfare systems – that we have the lowest inequality in the whole EEA area. That's positive, and that's something we're going to take care of. There are several reasons why the inequality in Norway is stablely low and has been so for many years. Firstly, we have a progressive tax system. The 10 pst. with the highest personal tax in Norway paying almost 40 pst. of the total taxes on the income on the persons of the country. The 10 pst. the richest paid 38.8 pst. of all personal taxes in 2017. But tax is not just redistribution, our tax system has many purposes – we're going to create jobs, we're going to prevent pollution, it's going to pay off for more jobs. That's why there's a lot of reasons underpinning our tax system. Therefore, the second part of the success factor in Norway is not just that the tax system is progressive, but what we use the tax revenue on. The fact that we have free education for everyone in Norway is very, very disparate. The fact that we have free health services in Norway for those who need it, when they need it, is very, very redistributive. In addition, we have arrangements for those who have low incomes, which means that some of the tax money is also targeted at those who need it the most. 85 pst. the increase in the number of children in families with long-term low incomes is in immigrant families. It is not an excuse, and it is not an excuse, but it is a very important factor to bring with it if the right measures are to be taken to prevent the inequality in Norway from growing. So what do we do with this? In 2019, the government implemented a number of measures to benefit children and families with children, such as: free of charge at kindergartens also for 2-year-olds in low-income families. This government has put in place a moderating mechanism to ensure that no families in Norway use more than 6 pst. of his or her income to kindergarten. It's very redistributive. Child welfare has increased, housing support has been eaten and targeted at the children’s families concerned, and the follow-up and pilot schemes for young people and increased allocation of area interventions in vulnerable urban areas have been extended. Another group that we know has been represented in the statistics on those with the lowest income is the country's pensioners. That is why, over the years that today's four government parties have been responsible for the country, we have increased the minimum pension by NOK 12 000. The proportion of old-age pensioners with persistent low incomes has fallen from below 30 p.p. at the end of the 1990s to 10 pst. in the period now. All of this is important to raise those who have been sitting at the bottom of the table for a long time. Nevertheless, the three main measures to prevent increasing inequality are employment, education and good integration. This government, in addition to pursuing a policy that has led to record low unemployment and increasing employment in Norway, has not taken it easy because it is also important that more of those outside the labour market come in. For this reason, an inclusion qualification has been initiated which allows more people with reduced working capacity or gaps in the CV to enter the labour market. 5 pst. of new posts in the State shall be made by people with holes in the CV. We have a requirement for compulsory activity for social welfare recipients, and it is now increasing to a age of 40, but we also see that there is a drop in the number of young people receiving social economic assistance. The youth initiatives, which are now established throughout the country, also ensure that several of the people who are having trouble getting into their first job are now getting it. The second is education, and here I mean there's a political bridge between the right and the left. One of the major paradoxes with Norway has been that over many years we have had a school that has not only reproduced but also reinforced social differences. The background and length of your parent’s education have been very important for how well you do it yourself at school. That is why it was absolutely essential that the then bourgeois majority actually, at the beginning of the 2000s, put in place the Knowledge promise, which was about just lifting those who needed it the most. After this important reform has been implemented, the proportion of students below the critical limit in grade 4 reading has gone from 10 pst. to 2 pst. It's equalizing social differences. There is much to be done in the field of integration and much still needs to be done. That is why this government has launched a series of measures to ensure that the proportion of immigrants we take into the country, such as refugees and asylum seekers, is on such a scale that we are in fact able to integrate them. But in addition, we also make some demands, e.g. that a person must take Norwegian training to receive social assistance, that short-term young people should receive a better organised offer with combination classes at secondary school, so that several complete and remain. With increased free core time in the kindergarten, which was adopted in the autumn of 2018, the total number of children who receive this offer – and many of them are children of immigrants – will have ranged from 11 300 to 45 100. However, let me end by mentioning some of the things that may be the main reason why the differences in Norway are small. That's our social model. It's e.g. that we have responsible parties who ensure that when the industry goes down, the workers make sure that they do not require more than that the companies survive that period, but that the cooperation between the parties also ensures that when the companies are doing well, the employees get their share of the success and profits. This avoids what you can see in many other countries. By the fact that we have a wage formation that is not about the fact that we in Stortinget sit and adopt a minimum wage, as you can see in other countries, which does not become a floor, but often a thank you, we have confidence that the parties, together with the state, will find good solutions for employees and employers across the country. It's also the case that we have institutions that are highly trusted, we have low corruption, people cooperate and trust each other – and in that way the inequalities are evened out. The debate we are going to have today on a matter on which the Finance Committee has worked a great deal, and which is the result of a communication from the government to the Stortinget, is important, because these results have not come of their own, and there is no law of nature for them to continue. But we also need to be clear about what are the most important measures to ensure that the inequality remains low in Norway, the lowest in the EEA area, and that is our social model, that is our education system, it is redistributive taxes, and it is a welfare society that gives to those who need it, when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e322	Listening to the representative Asheim may seem that differences in Norway have decreased in recent years, but after six years with a Right Party-led government, differences in Norway have increased. I believe the representative Asheim and I agree that some of the most important thing is to get people to work, but when I hear what the representative Asheim lists out of good actions carried out by this government, very much of it will help make it more demanding for people to go to work, because the social security is getting higher than what they can get in labour income – so it becomes a poverty trap. Can the representative Asheim say something about what you're going to do in the future to reduce what's the big question here today, that the inequalities are actually increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e331	Let me start by saying that the differences in Norway, as I said, are the lowest in the EEA area. They've increased weakly in the last 30 years. We've looked back in interest at the period when the red-greens crashed. What was a little funny was that in 2007, the inequalities increased, the way we measure them, while in 2008 they went down. In 2007, the country went well. It also means that the stock exchanges went better. In 2008 the stock exchanges collapsed. So this has fluctuated over time. The most important thing, I think, is that we notice that even though inequalities have increased slightly for 30 years, they are the lowest in the whole EEA area. So to point two from the representative Aasrud, this is that the social security is getting too high. I think we're going to have a system that, on the one hand, ensures that people get a job, and we see that happening, but at the same time we're going to have good welfare arrangements for those who are struggling to get into work, or for example. families with children who will spend a little more time with their children for a period of time, including: through the cash support. Finally, what are we going to do in the future? The most important thing is inclusion, and it is a very difficult document that the government is working with all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e340	I'm recording that Asheim spent three seconds on what was the future. My point is that when you introduce an amount limit for when, for example: Getting free kindergarten and free school leave is not going to pay for people to get into work, because then you suddenly have to pay a lot more. I also believe that universal arrangements should apply to payments. I don't think Asheim answers the big challenges, but I spend a lot of time telling you what it was like 30 years ago. So now the Right has been falling for six years. It's hard to see what's the big contribution to reducing the differences between people when it's tax-free for those who have the most, to those who take the most part of the cake. Can the representative Asheim say something about why it's right to give those who have the most, the biggest taxes, when the differences increase at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e349	Let me just start very briefly with this with thresholds. That is why this government introduced something completely new, namely the 6-percent rule for kindergarten prices. It makes no one pay more than 6 pst. of his or her remuneration in kindergarten. If you go into pay, you go into kindergarten, but it'll always pay to work more. That's why we've made it. The second is this with free core time. I agree that to this extent it can be seen as a threshold, but it's not the strongest groups in society we're talking about, these are families with bad finances. We know how important kindergarten is both for integration and for women's participation in working life. These are measures we are in favour of, but for which we record that the Workers' Party is clearly opposed. Then we come to what's future, and it's just that some of the core and some of the things that were paradoxical last time we had a big rise in Norway, was that we created more jobs, but more of those that were outside did not get into the workplace. If you really want to do something about the inequalities in Norway, you can either put all the guns on those who create jobs, or you can make sure that more of those who are outside come into the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e358	Here, the representative Asheim concluded by focusing on the labour market. I fully agree with Mr Asheim that the situation in the labour market is very important, that is, that people have a job, that you have a safe job, and that you have a positive development in your pay and working conditions. What you have seen over time is a reduced employment rate in Norway, not only in total but also in core groups. Among those who are in their – I was saying – best working age, the employment rate has fallen over many years. At the same time, one also sees that there are large groups of workers in the Norwegian community who experience a pressure on pay and working conditions, who feel that their real wages are falling, among other things. because one has an unregulated labour immigration. At the top of it, many of them experience increased taxes, while those who receive reduced taxes, above all, are the ones who have the most from before. Does the representative Asheim see the need for changes in how we manage the labour market in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e365	Let me start by calming the representative, Mr Görlsvik, that the level of employment is now rising. This was the big concern in the 2017 election campaign, when the opposition, including the Centre Party, was very critical: Yes, unemployment is low, but the level of employment does not rise. Now it goes up. I might think that even if you're in opposition, you have to be able to enjoy the results you see, when several of the outsiders came in. Then it is that our working life, as I said, is a safe and stable working life. Nine out of ten Norwegians say they like to work. It is also an important part of the picture you sometimes try to paint from the opposition that it is now like ragnarok in the world of work. – Not at all, it's going very well, and that's because we trust our parties. So finally this with taxes and taxes. I agree – I believe that taxes and taxes, the personal economy of each family, are very important not only in an inequality perspective, but also in the welfare of the family. Therefore, this government has reduced taxes and charges by almost 25 billion. NOK in sum. The opposition, the central party, in particular, has proposed to increase the tax and tax burden each year. It means less money for families and less for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e374	Once again, the government parties are trying to make a debate on inequality a debate on poverty. It's not very surprising, because it's been the fogging strategy of this government all the way. But inequality itself is important to discuss. It's about the growth in countries like Norway would be greater if the inequality wasn't so great. A new OECD report states precisely that and is also clear that this is not a matter of action exclusively for the poorest. Then the representative Asheim brings forward work, education and integration as the most important measures. Yes, against poverty they may be, but in terms of inequality, it is absolutely central to being concerned with taxes, of work and of well-being. We see examples from other countries of how the drop in the level of organisation of work just creates increased inequality. So let me quickly ask, when the taxes are cut by 25 billion. When, in practice, the trade-union deduction is reduced, and when people lose redundancy money, does it increase or does it reduce inequalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e382	What these figures show is first and foremost that this government on the one hand has – yes – reduced some taxes, which I know SV is very dependent on introducing, inheritance tax, for example. It's an argument that SV often uses – that it's a redistributive tax. The point in my post when I talked a lot about the redistributive tax system we have, that almost 40 pst. of the personal tax revenue comes from the 10 pst. with the highest income, it is a good illustration that the tax system is not just about redistribution. It's also about justice. It is also a matter of feeling that the money you pay is legitimate to pay in. That is why we have said that the inheritance fee should be removed – it is unsocial, and it is perceived as unfair. So the representative, Kaski, sums up the different things you've done in terms of taxes, and in terms of welfare schemes, and asks if it increases the inequalities. Well, what we see is that on the one hand, we have a tax policy that creates more jobs. We make sure that there are more jobs, and several of those outside came in. I would suggest that the representative Kaski travels to someone who has been out of work for the last six years and perhaps sitting in a basement room and playing computer games, but who now has a job, and asks if he feels that the inequality has gone up or down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e394	For years we have discussed – in and outside this hall – the consequences of increasing differences in power and wealth in Norway, and for as long as the right has been hard to recognize the differences also increase in Norway; there is a problem policy can help reduce differences; Therefore, there were not so many who had expectations of this big message that the government had to reluctantly present, but it was then possible to hope that one here might take a giver with the right party's legacy and formulations from the Progress Party as it is not a public task to smooth out pay differences that naturally occur in the labour market. But we already realized on the launch day that this was not going to happen. There was a rare display in communication spiders, where immigration was stamped as a sinner and a main explanation. It certainly fits perfectly into the narrative of the Progress Party, but it was rather difficult to see the canoeing process of the Finance Minister after having had his passport signed by half of the public Norway for both the wrong diagnosis and the wrong medicine. Despite the fact that the right-wing government has left its legs behind in the fight for stronger communities and smaller differences, and stands out as both reluctant and powerless, I believe that with this debate we have come a little further. Because it is no longer possible to turn away from the following: the economic differences between people are increasing in Norway, measured both in income and in wealth. The richest are moving away, and they've become even richer under this government, reinforced by billions in tax cuts to those who already have the most. At the same time, those who tend at least are slowing down. Just because the Solberg government took over, they have 30 pst. the lowest waged household got less to rot with. When they are going to shop for milk and bread, they have to think a little bit more deeply about it than before, while the richest of us still don't know how much a litre of milk actually costs. So even though the difference debate may seem theoretical, and graphs and tables may confuse, the consequences for ordinary people are most real and noticeable. This is a serious sign, because there's no law of nature saying that right here, right in Norway, there should be less differences than in other countries. Once we've done better than most of the others, it's because of the Norwegian model, with strong trade unions, a strong welfare state and a revolving tax system. It's a model that doesn't stand in the way of the Norwegian people, but which creates less differences between people, a model that the right-wing party claims to defend, but which, with action for almost six years in government, has helped to weaken. The Labour Party believes in the power of politics to change society. So we've launched our 83 measures to reduce economic and social differences in Norway, to reduce income and pay differentials, to prevent the wallet from deciding what kind of help a sheep if you get sick, or what kind of provision our kids should have in leisure, to make sure that it's the talent and not the fortune that determines what kind of possibilities you have. We want to use economic policy to have a fairer and more distortive tax system. The Labour Party believes that increasing differences threaten fundamental values in Norway: the high trust, relatively high and even wages and our ability to meet changes together and be adaptable in the future. Thus, there is a major problem that does not have a simple solution. Nevertheless, the politicians who have been able to both make the right diagnosis and print the right medicine. Then it is serious that the government reports errors about both. I would like to include the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e425	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e432	After all, before this debate, the Labour Party has also launched 83 proposals on differences in paper sheets in the party leader's office. There are a lot of proposals – taxi policy, broadband – to which one can be positive, but these are probably not the most important arguments in an inequality debate. For what the Workers' Party itself intervenes whenever they are to argue – and reach the representative Bjørdal – against inequality, tax is. He says that we have to increase taxes because then there will be more redistribution. We have looked at the proposals made by the Labour Party in its alternative budget for 2019, and we see that this Gini coefficient does not affect the proposals of the Workers' Party. My question is twofold: what taxes does the representative, Mr Bjørdal, think must be increased, in addition to what the Labour Party proposed in its alternative budget? And the second is: will the representative Bjørdal consider voting for the SV's proposal to reintroduce an inheritance tax, if it reduces the differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e439	The question from Henrik Asheim is actually quite revealing, because it shows that the right party does not understand the interaction between politics and the various political approaches that it is possible to take. The right-wing party does not understand that a reduction in differences cannot – as Henrik Asheim and Siv Jensen are trying to – reduce it to a poverty debate alone, or reduce it to an immigration debate alone, because everything is related to everything. When we launch 83 different measures to reduce economic and social differences, it's precisely because to be clear to reduce these differences, one has to do it all along the mountain, one has to use the entire political spectrum. It shows the representative of Asheim that he either does not understand, or that he is not willing to use the political tools that he can have in the toolbox to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e446	There was an answer to something quite different from what I asked for, because what I asked was: What taxes does the representative of Bjørdal think should be increased, in addition to the Workers' Party's alternative proposal for 2019, which we have checked that does not affect the inequality significantly, and will the representative Bjørdal vote for an inheritance fee, as SV suggests, if it reduces the inequality in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e451	For the Workers' Party, it is not relevant to reintroduce the inheritance fee. We've had a pretty thorough discussion about that here in the hall not long ago, so I won't repeat it. Otherwise, I think it is quite satisfactory that the representative Asheim has spent so much time going through and being curious about our tax arrangements, but that again shows that he does not understand the context of the policy. If you want to reduce the Gini coefficient, if you want to reduce income differences and differences between people in this country, it is not enough to look at the tax in isolation. Yes, our tax regime, in isolation, may not have such an extreme effect when it comes to reducing differences, but if it is to reduce differences in income, it has to attack it along the tax line, it has to attack it along the axis of work, and you have to attack it along the welfare axis. And we have a community structure that is much more ambitious, we have a welfare structure that is much more ambitious, and we have a labour policy that promotes an organized, tidy and regulated working life, which, unfortunately, reduces the differences between people – and which is completely opposite to the right government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e458	Norwegians have access to a whole set of well-being goods, such as health care, education and free dentistry for all under 18 years. The government has also strengthened its efforts through increased funding for parental support, child protection, drug care, psychiatry and health services. We have increased child welfare, and the one-off benefit has increased significantly since 2013. Young people in low-income families have received more in school grants, and a trial project with free SFO has been started. Grant schemes for children from low income families have increased from 100 million. kr to over 300 mill. kr, which allows many more now than before to participate in holiday and leisure activities. In one of its comments on the communication, among others: Working Party: ‘The government is in the process of phasing out the universal welfare state step by step.’ I wonder if the Workers' Party can point out which of the measures I have now mentioned, which means that the welfare state is being phased out, step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e468	I didn't think the show list from the Progress Party representative was so impressive, with the record high oil money usage we've seen under this government. More than a thousand billions of oil have been spent without anything left, neither a major social reform nor a major savings reform, so I might have hoped and expected that the Progress Party would go a little bit quieter in the doors, a party that normally does not admit to be so very proud of the big public spending, but the times have turned around. What's our main criticism of the government, as well as using the big money mistakes, is that a good thing is to spend so much resources and effort on needs-tested schemes, because we think there are poverty traps. We should have universal welfare arrangements. For example, in the case of kindergarten, if a person ends up across that border, it does not pay to work, it pays to keep the income low so that a person still ends up within the tried and tested schemes. They can be a trap of poverty. We want welfare arrangements to be universal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e475	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e481	In Norway, we have slight differences between people and between different groups. It has been a political goal for many parties over many years. We have a high standard of living, and trust between people and between people and governments is very high. When you read the position we are dealing with today, you would think that Norway is not going to recognise after 2013, when the right parties, or the blue-blue ones, took power through a democratic election. When you read the setting, it seems even more strange that the same games won the voters again in 2017. Because if you read the setting, you see a gloomy, dystopian picture of Norway. It's the same picture that the socialist and communist parties in the opposition tried to draw before the elections in 2013 and 2017 – of a country that has left its principles of equality, of justice, of freedom. The country we now live in is marked by poverty, by a brutalised working life, by a tax system that is far on the way, if not more, similar to the American – or even worse – to tax havens that we do not like to compare with. Norway has the lowest inequality in the world if it includes a redistributive tax system and transfers and welfare goods from the public. As I see it, the difference on the left-hand side and the right-hand side of this debate is that while the left-hand side is largely concerned about talking about the richest of us and how to make them poorer or less richer, the right-hand side is most concerned about how to raise those sitting at the bottom of the table. It is not a single poor person who has been better off because a rich person has become a little less rich. Although inequality can be a good indicator of how things stand in a country, it is not the only indicator or the only one that measures. For example, the Labour Party has: have contributed to reducing the corporate tax burden on Norwegian enterprises in the last few years. There has been a powerful measure to prevent the outsourcing of Norwegian companies abroad, and it has been important to attract us foreign companies. If we have higher corporate taxes than our neighbouring countries over time, the consequence may be that we move to our neighbouring countries. But it has also increased the inequalities, and it shows some of the dilemmas we face when we make changes. In the short term, inequalities can increase – in the long term, hopefully, more jobs are created here at home. Although the Labour Party leader did not believe in it for some time in Political Quarter, according to the SSB, this increases the inequality more than cut in the wealth tax. And to take the property tax: if you are completely indifferent to whether Norwegian companies have foreign or Norwegian owners, it is entirely possible to defend a tax on wealth. If you think that foreign owners are sitting through the storm, as Norwegian owners of businesses and jobs do when it blows bad, you can undoubtedly defend it, even if you bottle jobs for capital to pay the tax. But it's not like that. It means something if the corner stone company is owned by Norwegian owners with Norwegian patriotic capital, or if they lose the fight against foreigners with tax advantages and have to sell the companies to them. The fact that, in particular, the Centre Party, which is otherwise occupied by Norwegian ownership, is hot defenders of this tax, which favours foreigners over Norwegian and Norwegian owners, is surprising. It is well possible that cuts in property taxes lead to an increase in inequality there and then, but it is and has been right to do so, just as it has been with corporate taxes. Work is the way out of poverty and much of the solution to income inequality. Not being at work over time reduces the living conditions, the health and the quality of life of individuals. This government has made a strong effort to get people to work, and we now see the results. The registered unemployment rate is the lowest in 10 years and employment is increasing. It is also very gratifying that the employment rate is increasing after several years of decline. In Norway, we have a well-functioning labour market and responsible parties on both the employee and employer sides. It has also increased the median pre-tax income by 60 pst in the last 30 years. This has benefited everyone. However, there are some danger signals we're going to take seriously. Technological developments can lead to fewer jobs in the short term and to the fact that those with the least formal education will have the most difficulty in finding work. There's a trend we've seen in the last decades that there'll be fewer and fewer jobs for those with little or no schooling beyond primary school. That is why the education system is crucial to getting more people into the labour market and to securing them income and a decent life and getting a society of small differences. More are now completing upper secondary education than six years ago. After the introduction of the absenteeism limit, which was opposed by several opposition parties, several hours are involved. It makes the danger of falling off become smaller. That is why it is worrying to, for example: The centre party warns against the absenteeism limit. It is ‘freaky and harmful to health’, writes the Senterungdom on its websites. The AUF went out in the previous election campaign and demanded that the first thing an Labour Party-led government should do was remove the absence limit. The most important thing for the Youth Party was to scrap away what makes more students in school now than before. The greatest danger of falling from upper secondary education is that of boys in vocational education. One of the biggest pitfalls is that they don't get apprenticeship space. Therefore, unlike what the red-green government did, the majority of the population have increased the apprenticeship grant, so that more companies find it profitable to take in apprentices. Together with the demand for apprentices to win public tenders, early efforts, more real science and more and better teachers, this will lead to more completion of the school. Several parts of the opposition, including: The Working Party and the Center Party use quite strong words in the setting. ‘The government is in the process of phasing out the universal welfare state step by step’, they say. It's a powerful diet. As mentioned earlier, the well-being makes us land with the lowest inequality in the world. I believe that you should evaluate the benefits at regular intervals to see if they meet their purpose, and I think it makes sense to make changes when they don't, or when we can spend money on other sensible arrangements. But to say that you wind up the universal welfare state step by step – there's no way! So this is said to be a government and a large majority who have invited to an inclusion exercise where joint efforts by public and private actors are to have more disabled people or holes in the CV into regular, regular jobs. It is a government that has simplified the pay subsidy scheme, so that more people will use it, and that has increased the appropriations for individual job support and the number of permanent job placements. It is a government that has greatly increased the appropriations for parental support, child protection, anti-drug and psychiatry work, and for the fight against violence and abuse, which has given more in education grants to young people in low-income families, who have only talked about the red-green parties for eight years, and given students eleven months of study funding, and who have more than doubled the support for children from economically disadvantaged families, so that they can participate in holiday and leisure activities. So this is a majority that liquidates the universal welfare state step by step. I could have mentioned that the minimum pension for single pensioners has increased sharply in the last six years, that waiting time in hospitals has decreased, that child welfare has increased for the first time over 20 years, and that kindergarten standards make children in kindergarten safer and lead to children learning more and playing better. But all of this would probably only be proof of the socialist and communist parties in the opposition that the universal welfare state is being phased out. Let me again state that small differences in society are also a political goal for the Progress Party – a political goal that cannot be achieved by bringing them down at the top, but which is achieved by lifting those sitting at the bottom of the table. That is what politics is all about. We're doing a good job, and we're going to keep doing that in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e513	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e518	The representative, Bjørnstad, opened and stopped saying that it is a political goal to have small differences in a society – that is good. Then he spent a lot of time stressing that we're probably the country in the world that has the lowest inequality and the greatest equality -- that's also true. And he listed a lot of what the government has done in relation to families with children, etc. – that's also true. But what he's jumping over is that evolution is moving towards greater differences, there are forces that pull this apart despite what you've done in terms of free core time, etc. That's what's the danger over time, that the stretch of the team gets so big that we're no longer a society with little differences of high trust. It's the danger signals that's there. Why does the representative jump so easily over it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e523	I didn't jump over it – I didn't experience it at all. I said that the inequality has increased slightly in the last 30 years. The Progress Party has been involved in ruling the country for 6 of the 30 years, 24 of the 30 years we haven't ruled the country. The Labour Party has governed the country for a large part of these years. I don't think the Workers' Party has had the aim of increasing the differences in Norway, but there are some factors that lie outside both mine and the representative of Hansen's potential, which have led to such developments, among other things. technological developments that are raging, and which – as I was also involved in my post – make it possible for fewer low-skilled people to take part in the labour market because the requirements for formal education are getting higher. But the Workers' Party's solution, to look at the tax system unilaterally as a redistributor, is not the way to solve this. You have to get jobs for those who need it, that's what makes us get people out of poverty, and that inequalities decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e528	It is absolutely right that we face different forces, international trends and national forces that are moving towards inequality over time, and that must be met with politics. What we've seen in recent years is that low pay loses purchasing power, high pay gets significantly increased purchasing power. The government’s tax haven has largely benefited those who serve the most and have the most. Does the representative, Bjørnstad, think that this tax haven – to isolate it to it – helps to dampen or increase the differences in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e533	I was also in my post that when you reduce e.g. corporate tax, as has been done in recent years – it has gone from 28 p.m. until 22 p.m., the working party has participated in a reduction to 23 p.m. – then in the snapshot, the inequalities increase somewhat. But it is still right to do so in the long term because it leads to more companies investing here at home instead of moving the workplaces and businesses out of the country. This makes us get more jobs in the long term, even though inequalities are increasing something right now. So it's like about half of the tax credits in the personal tax have gone to people with less than NOK 600 000 in income, that's the vast majority of them who have taken part in our tax credits. I think it's nice that the Workers' Party has now begun to talk about tax relief, despite the fact that the tax relief has been 25 billion. kr in the last few years. Now the Workers' Party believes that the time has come to give ordinary people tax relief, even if you didn't think it was when the tax level was 25 billion. kr higher than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e540	It is fascinating to hear the representative of the Progress Party talk about taxes and taxes and distribution and inequality. What has happened during today's government is that the big tax cuts have benefited those who have the best of the past, while ordinary people have received record high fees, record high tolls. I have registered that the representative Bjørnstad has been out thinking highly about tolls. It has been seen that after six years with the Progress Party in government, they have probably become too high. What is the answer? Well, you're going to have to increase people's taxes further. It's okay to look at the charging system's device, but are the fees going to increase further? Is it the case that the tax cuts to those who have the most history are to be protected by the Progress Party, and then people in Norway will receive further increased taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e547	The answer to that is no. We've reduced taxes by about 25 billion. kr in the last few years. Everyone has benefited, including those with low income. I think it's the final sum of the checkout that counts. It is the total level of taxation that matters to families when they settle the accounts at the end of the year. Then it means that you have got NOK 11,000 more to travel with this government every year. When the centre party ran, each family got less money to travel with. Then I notice that in the setting of this case writes among other things. The centre party that the environmental tax is a good and powerful tool to influence people's behaviour. I have to say that is surprising after all the line changes that the Center Party has had against the Progress Party in recent years, as they have accused the Progress Party of just wanting to increase the fees. What charges is the Central Party now wanting to increase through its comments in this setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e554	The government has so far cut heavily in the redundancy money, in the bush and in the state support for dental regulation. Year after year, pensioners have had less purchasing power, except this year, as it may appear that the pensioners receive an average of 365 kroner per year, i.e. one dollar per day. The pensioners themselves say that they feel this is a mockery, and that they didn't expect it to come from the Progress Party. Support for the unemployed has also been cut, holiday money has been removed, and the daily allowance has increased. Does the representative of Bjørnstad think that this is a cut that reduces differences, or does he think that this is a cut that increases differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e561	As I said in my post, I think it makes sense to go through the welfare arrangements and goods at regular intervals to see if they meet their purpose. In those we have made changes, one has not made over time according to purpose. This applies, for example: support for dental regulation. Then I would like to be without the pension reform, but it was the Socialist Left Party in the government that fought through – together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The party of progress voted against it. Nevertheless, we have managed to reduce the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. Lone minimum pensioners have received NOK 12000 more to route from in the fall. So we're doing powerful grips for the pensioners as well. So it's true that we've made changes to some well-being stuff, but we've increased many others. We've increased child welfare, we've increased the one-off benefit, we've increased housing support, we've increased the care allowance, we've increased the grant for holiday and leisure services. The absence limit has been introduced so that several complete secondary schools. That's the grips combined as the numerator, and there we've done a lot right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e570	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e576	Norway is a rich country with enormous opportunities. We should be glad that we live in a country with very good opportunities, which has historically been built by the fact that generations before us have made wise political choices and facilitated the well-being and prosperity that we have in Norway today. We are also a country that, on an international scale, has relatively small differences. We also need to know how to take care of that. But that's the picture, isn't an excuse for us politicians today, not to make wise choices, even for the future. The fact that we have had forward-looking politicians, who through political decisions have made it possible for one to have good universal welfare arrangements, to have a well-organised labour market that is being built step by step, and to have a tax system based on taxes according to ability, must be further built on to help reduce the differences in society, in order to help make things better for those who are not doing well in Norwegian society – not using our history as an excuse not to make the right choices today. This is why it is incredibly important in Norway and in the community that we have. It is important that we contribute to the good of living, living, working and living a good life throughout Norway. If one is to do so in the future, we must first of all have good universal welfare arrangements. We have to have a national framework for policy, we have to be master of our own house, we have to have elected labour market governance, we have to have an organisation of the labour market where permanent jobs are the general rule, where it is possible for everyone, in different professions, to have a wage to live on, and we have to make sure that one has access to good public services throughout Norway. This is what is being challenged in the field by area today. As regards access to public services throughout Norway, with the current centralisation, there is no equivalence. Equality is not just about economic differences, it is also about having access to basic services close to where you live, no matter where you live in Norway. It is therefore important to ensure that it is facilitated, whether it be in the police, health services, ambulances or in other areas — that one facilitates good services where people live. It is also important that the tax system is fair, that there is tax on the basis of its ability, that it provides a good social profile, that those who have a backlog to bear it contribute more to the community than they do today, while taking care to reduce the sum of the charges, and that one has to have a look at how tax changes turn out geographically. I have to say, year after year, the Centre Party has tried to ask the Ministry of Finance what kind of impact their proposals have on the geographical distribution. Each year I get the answer that unfortunately one cannot calculate. I am pleased that the opposition in this setting is gathering that such answers also need to have, to look at not only how the amendments that a person has are turning out in terms of social distribution, but also how changes turn out geographically. That is why it is important to create a better labour market than we have today. Representatives from the government parties have tried so far in the debate to boast unrelentingly of a small increase in the employment share, while the employment share has fallen sharply in recent years — not only overall but also in the core group, aged 25–55, the employment share has fallen sharply in recent years. At the same time, a figure also shows that in a number of occupations in Norway, an estimated 130 occupations, real wages fell last year, and an estimated 30 pst. lower real wages have been paid by employees in recent years. There are challenges that need to be addressed through active policies in the Norwegian community, and new measures are therefore needed. I would like to make a comment on proposal No. 17, which the Center Party has together with the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e595	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e600	The central party writes a lot in the setting that they believe the inequality is growing due to increased flat rates. At the same time, the Centre Party will cooperate with the Workers' Party and the SV, which will increase the fees by many billions. SV would increase the fees by $9.5 billion. kr, Working party with 5 br. kr, only in 2019. If the Central Party believes that inequality and division are unfortunate, how can they explain that they are going to achieve a different development along with parties that want to increase the fees so heavily?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e607	The last Senterpartiet sat in government and SV sat with the finance minister, the fees were several billion kroner lower than they are today. With today’s government, there has been a sharp increase in the total fees in Norway. I have good faith that different parties will see that, yes, we will use fees to achieve political goals. But if you just think about using the fees to increase the revenue of the state, the fees also lose legitimacy as a political tool. Therefore, there is a need to reduce taxes in Norway, not to increase them, as today’s government has unfortunately done — and unfortunately opposition parties have also increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e612	The centre party also describes negative income trends in agriculture and has predicted a sharp decline in income in 2019. Now the farm is settled in port, and the frame was increased by 1.24 billion. kr. Is the Central Party in agreement with the Nations, which believes that there is now reason for greater optimism among farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e617	What is the result of this year's agricultural settlement, after a very demanding year for agriculture, is a careful increase in income, which is miles away from closing any of the big income gap that is for farmers. Therefore, there is a need for a completely new agricultural policy in which one contributes to improving farmers' incomes, not least because we have a social mission in Norway that requires us to produce food for our own people. The level of self-sufficiency in Norway is alarmingly low. It has to go up, and we have to take care of that, among other things. by providing farmers with better framework conditions than they have had in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e622	This is a debate about inequality, and it's kind of nice to read what the Center Party writes in its comments. They write that ‘taxes or incentives that promote climate-friendly choices in most people will be easier to bear for those who earn much than for those who earn little’. Yes, I fully agree with that, but this suggests that the Centre Party would like to introduce climate charges. How does the Central Party feel that it will equalize the inequalities – because that affects everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e632	It is fully possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The centre party has also been involved in proposing – and also supported in the current period – changes in car charges, for example, in a more environmentally friendly direction. But that does not mean that one must at the same time increase the total fees, which today's government, where the Progress Party has the Minister of Finance, has done in rich monn. Charges in Norway have never been higher than while the Progress Party has managed Norway. It is fully possible to make changes to the charging system without using the charges as an additional dairy cow for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e637	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e642	Are differences increasing in Norway? Throughout the previous ageing period, SV tried to get a response from the government. But Finance Minister Siv Jensen would not answer, and at least she would not admit that the differences are increasing, even though the figures have shown that for many years. For this reason, SV suggested that the government present a big message of inequality, because we need a fact-based debate, which acknowledges that the differences exist in Norway, they are increasing, and that is especially the ones at the top that are pulling away. I hope so, because when the Minister of Finance presented the big message, it was with a great deal of fogging. The main reason for increased differences is immigration to Norway, said Jensen on the same day as the notification was submitted. However, the notification states that there is no immigration, but that the richest people withdraw, which is the main cause of increased inequality. The richest will leave, while the rest will be hanging after. The message shows that since 2013 they have 10 pst. richest households received higher income. The rest of us have been standing about still. The 20 pst. at least reduced during the same period. In 2018, 130 professions, such as cleaners, receptionists, primary school teachers and electricians, received lower real wages than in the previous year, while directors and top managers were again given an increase. In 2018, we recorded the number of young people growing up in families with persistently low incomes and a record in the number of billionaires in Norway. If we look at wealth, Norway is an exceptionally rich country, but not an exceptionally similar country. Today, the richest percentage owns one fifth, probably even more, of all wealth in Norway. It is on the heights of the United Kingdom and more than in countries like France, Canada and Spain. This makes it harder to draw a picture of a Norway with uniquely small differences. Concentration of wealth also involves a concentration of power, not only in business but also in the form of political power. Through the funding of thinking thoughts and parties on the right, some of the country's richest have invested heavily in strengthening the political voices that safeguard their interests. Concentration of wealth and power on few hands is a challenge for democracy. We're going to hear from all the parties today that they want little differences. But the political will to take action that actually reduces the differences is small. In this Communication, the Government has not put forward any policy measures that will reduce inequalities, but has made it necessary to list policies already in place, despite the fact that that policy does not address the ever-increasing differences, and despite the fact that the 2018 decision was clarifyingly clear: the Government should present a communication with measures. Where the government conducts policies that increase differences in Norway, SV promotes proposals that will reduce them. In our alternative budget for 2019, we propose a comprehensive approach to the tax system, where taxes on wealth, inheritance and property are increased, while taxes on labour are reduced. It will be a tax system that actually benefits and makes smaller differences. But that's not what the government wants. They cut taxes by 25 billion. kr. The tenth largest in Norway has received one third of all tax cuts. The 0.1 pst. The wealthiest in Norway has totaled 1.4 billion. kr in tax cuts. The government itself is concerned about the importance of the welfare state to ensure small differences. But it should be a cross-thinking that differences are increasing in Norway despite our well-being. Building a society with small differences requires courageous welfare reforms that further build well-being. Making sure that all kids get to participate in the same line is perhaps the most important investment we can make for the future – as in Oslo, where SV has had an impact on and implemented free core time in the activity school. At Furuset School in Groruddalen, attendance increased from 30 p.m. by the children to 90 pst. It means that all the kids get to be involved in the game and the learning. What we've done in Oslo, we can do in the rest of the country. We must have a school where all children can learn, master and thrive. Many with poor advice have received less during the Solberg government – as they do, or as those who have lost the redundancy money. SV has repeatedly asked the government to show the consequences of cuts in benefits and welfare schemes, but they have not. That is why we are once again promoting proposals today. What are the consequences for those who have been cut in the housing stock? And what about lone-parents who have been cut off in the transitional benefit? However, smaller differences do not exist, and there are increasing numbers of poor people in Norway. In the welfare state, we see it cracks in the joints. There's a lack of nurses, there's a shortage of teachers on the way, there's a riot among employees in child protection and in kindergartens. In several parts of our well-being, there are not enough people at work, and that weakens our common well-being. Full employment, small pay differentials and a well-organised working life are essential for a society of small differences. We need strong trade unions that fight to move money and power, from capital to work and from managers to employees. The level of organisation of work needs to be raised. But the government doesn't take that responsibility. We need to increase the trade union deduction, we need to strengthen the right to full and permanent jobs, and the manpower industry needs to get out of work. The Norwegian housing model has been central to the prosperity growth of the postwar period in Norway, but now the housing market has become a driver of increased inequality. Nevertheless, the theme is hardly mentioned in the staging message. Young initial starters need more help from their parents. Young people from low-income families and districts are less able to get such help and get into the urban housing market. Less than half of the low-income households now own their own dwelling. We have a tax system that favors them with many and expensive homes. Those outside the housing market are not allowed to share in these tax advantages but are offered a deregulated rental market. A tax shift with a lower tax on work and a higher tax on property is necessary. The municipalities and the state must have a more active housing policy, and the room for action of the House Bank must be increased. When you hear the right-hand side talk about inequality, it sounds like this is just about poor immigrants. But it's about something more. It is about the preconditions for a living democracy, it is about who has power over the economy and politics. The concentration of wealth, globalisation and technological development affects the conditions of power in Norway. The economic differences have increased — and continue to do so. Centralisation has increased, the labour market has undergone major changes, and we note the impacts of climate change — to mention some of the major changes that our society is currently experiencing. Then we have to face these changes with a powerful policy for redistribution, a policy for less differences than today, a policy that spreads power. Unfortunately, this crash message does not do that. Instead, we have a government that conducts a policy that increases differences in Norway. The larger the task of a new majority in 2021. With that, I address the proposals SV, the Greens/Reds/Greens/Reds/Greens/Reds/Greens/Reds/Greens/Reds/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e678	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e686	So far in the debate, I think we can all establish that the fight against inequality is primarily about our children not falling out of school, and that adults do not fall out of work. For children and adults with a migrant background, this is particularly important if we are to succeed in integrating. SV is today involved in promoting 20 proposals, and they are largely about increasing taxes or figuring out how to do so. We have also been able to read proposals on climate action and inequalities. My question to the representative goes along exactly that axis: why is it that SV has prioritised such proposals on taxes and taxes in front of entirely concrete measures for integration, housing and creating more jobs, which can actually solve the challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e691	I am genuinely curious about what the representative refers to here. If the representative refers to our alternative budget, there is both a redistributive tax system that gives people the most lower tax rate than this government does, and at the same time succeeds in a more climate-friendly tax shift, and we give priority to measures for a more practical and varied school day that will prevent more people from falling out of school, as we experience today. We prioritise many more integration measures to get people with a minority background out into work. These are measures that can be implemented. We just made a proposal for a fairer housing policy, which will in fact mean that we get grips with the entire housing market, so that more people can get in and take part in the well-being and prosperity of being able to own their own home. I hope the representative and the Right will support that proposal and be involved in several policy actions to reduce the differences in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e696	I note that for the Socialist Left, it is actually that when we have to make this concrete down to proposals in connection with this communication, we do not mention the main measures in this field. The main focus is on increasing taxes and taxes, because that is what you think is most important in the fight against inequality. It's noted. The representative also stated that increasing the tax on housing is important in the fight against inequalities. Is there one thing we've seen, is that if we get the building pace up and building costs down while we don't burden the inhabitants with property taxes, it helps to create a more social housing policy. The representative says that the house taxes must be paid up. Then I actually want an answer from SV – this I have wondered many times before and not received an answer to: How high does the property tax in Norway have to be in order for the inequalities to decrease?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e703	We have promoted a wide range of measures, such as: to obtain tables from the government on the redistribution effect of the tax cuts made by the government. I note that the government parties will vote against it. However, we refer to all the other measures that we have promoted a long number of times — among others. in the context of the budget – which will reduce differences in Norway. After all, it is the government, despite a clearly large-scale decision, which in this big-scale communication does not provide any new measures to reduce the inequality in Norway. No action! It is just an outline of what is established policy — which we do not actually know reduces differences, because differences are increasing in Norway. We have proposed a tax shift involving increased taxes on property and reduced taxes on labour. Most people get into the plus, but you also get a more stable housing market. I don't want to say that tax on property is a measure of reducing inequality. It is a measure to stabilise the housing market. And we have the whole economic environment with us to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e710	I had intended to start by saying that it was a high and dark SV representative. It wasn't, but it was at least a tough SV representative. Inequality is something that's important to work with, and it's essentially about helping those who are struggling, and getting them lifted. When you're going to be tall and tough, you should know your story. Then it's funny to ask the representative to answer the following: Was it more or less poor in the eight red-green years? When was child anxiety increased under the red-green? And how many times was it increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e717	I have tried to contribute to this debate being about inequality and not just about poverty. I really think the government parties should do that too, because inequality itself is dramatic for a society as it grows. So there is no new policy from this government or these government parties that will reduce the inequality in Norway. When we were in government, we didn't manage to bring down the number of kids growing up in persistent low incomes. It is precisely on the basis of the fact that we have been so concerned about increasing child welfare during this ageing period and the previous one. We have put forward proposals on this every year. The Progress Party has voted against it every year. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has come into the government and is now gaining momentum in order to increase child-responsiveness. There we and the Christian People's Party have stood together. It's not as big an increase as we should have seen, but I meet this year's budget with great enthusiasm to see if child welfare will continue to rise, and go up to the level it should be at to actually reduce the number of kids growing up in sustained low income.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e724	I record that the representative is not trying to talk about what I think is at least important. It's about those who are out of work, those who are struggling, those who are poor, are the ones you should actually work to lift. The most important thing for them is actually to get to work and get help to get up. It doesn't necessarily matter how big an inequality there is. The most important thing is actually to lift those that have the least. Then I register that the representative would not answer clearly and clearly whether it became more or less poor during the eight red-green years, and I record that she would not answer how many times the child's health was increased under the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e731	There were fewer poor people in Norway when SV crashed than it is today. This government is becoming increasingly poor, and I do not see that the government parties are promoting a policy that will reduce the number of poor people in Norway – on the contrary. We know the consequences of removing the redundancy money, we know the consequences of removing the child supplement for the disabled, and we know the consequences of old-age pensioners experiencing their purchasing power falling or staying on site resting. We ask that the government also take those consequences seriously, but we do not see that the government parties will do that. But inequality – in addition to poverty – is important to discuss. That's why we're busy discussing also the inequality, because it affects the whole community as it grows. That is why I think it is quite serious when the representatives of the big business will not discuss inequality or think that it is not so important whether those figures are increasing, because that is actually the case. And it's not just about the poorest in Norway, it's about society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e738	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e743	We who live in 2019-Norway are among the luckiest human beings that have ever lived. We live in a country with great potential, a solid welfare society that takes care of those who need it, with small differences, good economy and bright prospects. Norway shall be a country where everyone has the possibility to participate and close, irrespective of background, gender, ethnicity and functional level. Equal rights and access to basic welfare services are important to achieve this. The good standard of living is based on high labour input and productivity together with well-functioning markets, broad and trusting cooperation between the social partners and good market access for exports of what we produce. For the Left, equal opportunities have been an authoritative principle for our policy since the party was shiped. Ensuring equal opportunities for all was the most important reason for creating the public sphere, for introducing the Castberg Children's Laws, and for bringing in the fear of the people. It is also the basis for the commitment of the Left to the environment and climate today. Future generations will benefit from the same freedom and the same possibilities we experience today. The government, with the support of or at the initiative of the Left, has introduced a series of measures over the last few years that help to smooth out differences and give equal opportunities to close down in life. This applies not least to the measures introduced to allow more children to go to kindergarten. Then it's a paradox that the large sums we spend on the state budget to give free core time in the kindergarten to more and more kids in families who need it, don't necessarily show up again in the statistics. Taking us with the value of public services, Norway has the lowest inequality in Europe. Economic transfers to families with children, free education and good study funding schemes reduce the importance of family background and increase social mobility in society. Social security provides income in the event of sickness, unemployment, disability, loss of dependants and retirement. Most of the costs of medical treatment are covered by popular fear, which in this way helps to reduce the consequences of living conditions and the quality of life of conditions beyond the control of each of us. The tax system contributes to the redistribution through the financing of public services and transfers and through the progressive design of the tax system, i.e.: that the tax increases with income. It is also the case that, in most developed countries, inequality has increased since the 1980s — to varying degrees in different countries, but still increasing. And so is Norway. There are many reasons for this, including: that more people live alone, and that there are more immigrants coming to the country. It is a development that must and must be met offensively, not least through integration policy. Learning languages reduce differences, ensure that more people can own their own homes, reduce differences, and get more people to work, both through business development that creates more jobs across the country, and through qualification measures for people who, for various reasons, have gone outside the workplace, help to reduce differences. Norway is between the countries of Europe with the lowest level of current low income and the lowest level of population at risk of poverty and social exclusion. However, the proportion of people in Norway living in households with current low incomes has risen somewhat in recent years. The level of low income has fallen sharply among old-age pensioners, but has increased among people living in households with single dependants, and among people with a migrant background. However, the proportion of current low income among immigrants is reduced monthly by extra butide in Norway. The integration capacity and the integration promise seen by the government have been seen as one of the most important measures to reduce the difference between people in Norway. As for so many other questions, the most important answer is how differences and inequalities can best be reduced, knowledge. Education is the key to having the ability to develop our own abilities and talents as a human being and to create a good life. This applies to both academic and vocational education and training. The unemployment rate is more than twice as high for those with only primary education as for those who have completed continuing education, and three times as high as for those with higher education. And there can be no doubt that the government party really prioritises knowledge and education very high. Schools have received more teachers, students receive more student housing and more support, many new places of study are created, the apprenticeship system is conscious and monthly enhanced, and cooperation between industry and educational institutions is increasingly improved. In a gender equality perspective, it is also very gratifying that women are now taking higher education more and more, and a few years ago they passed men in education. At the same time, it is important that the government follows up the work of raising the boys in the school, among other things. in the light of the report of the Stoltenberg Committee. The inequality debate in Norway shows both some fundamental differences and some fundamental similarities between the parties in the hall. There is hardly anyone left in Norway who would argue that there are greater differences of opinion, or that there are natural differences between people who make it reasonable for someone to live in poverty while others may wonder at luxury. There are countries where the debate is still alive. I'm glad Norway is not one of them. But the debate shows that even if we agree on many of these objectives, we have a rather different approach to the debate. There is a difference in how we think about universal versus targeted poverty measures, and there is a difference in what we think about the role of public versus civil society and citizens – usually a constructive difference, where it is possible to find good solutions at the crossroads. Even if the Left is a party based on an ideology that always takes root in the individual, there is no doubt that community is very important to us social liberals, whether there is community that can experience in the workplace, in the family, in the chess club, in the local pub or in the rock band, communities that fight for interests, or communities that are only created to create joy and cohesiveness among those who participate in the community. Youths like climate strikes outside here on Friday do so because they are part of a community that fights for a stronger environmental policy, because they want the same opportunities and the same freedom as parents and grandparents have. For the Left is community and equal opportunities for all two sides of the same cause, for community man also builds as an individual, and community builds up the differences between humans. We are therefore pleased that we have had the opportunity to debate widely the differences in Norway through this big message, and that the government is now following up the important work of the government party and the government is already doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e773	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e779	One of the best in Norwegian business and, to the extent possible, in the public sector is our high productivity. We've put new technology into use early. We have a high level of education and safe, independent employees, who take responsibility for the final result. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned that employees working together in trade unions are stronger. We see that it strengthens participation and can have an impact on productivity – and therefore directly on the bottom line of companies. Now we hear that the degree of organisation in Norwegian working life drops to less than 50 pst. Only half of the employees are organized. Will the representative Breivik then be concerned about productivity in Norwegian working life, and what might the Left want to do to increase the level of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e786	Yes, there is reason to be concerned. There is no doubt that tripartite cooperation is the most important institute we have in Norway to create mutual trust between employers and employees. This is perhaps also the main reason why Norway, despite being a high-cost country, is so largely competing internationally, in markets that have completely different costs. Nor is there any doubt that a high degree of organisation and the job that the trade unions have done will also help us to take care of the competitive advantage and responsibility they show. For my part and for the left, we have already taken initiatives to be in close dialogue with trade unions and have had our own hearings here on the house, just to get a recording of how we can contribute together to increasing the level of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e793	So on a slightly different subject: in contact with our justice system and with a little insight into criminal matters, it becomes clear that very many of those who are being prosecuted in Norway are young men from slightly worse economic conditions than most. Often, care in the homes they come from has not been the best — perhaps not the follow-up to school and leisure activities either. Given that that's what reality looks like, it's worrying when those who have the 30 pst. the lowest income has been reduced in purchasing power since the takeover of the government of Solberg in 2013. While most people get better, these 30 pst are decreasing. the lowest paid aft. They also feel much weaker when they move from the top. In addition, we know that child poverty is increasing. Does the representative see that increasing differences and growing child poverty can have an impact on the extent of crime in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e808	Yeah, definitely, there's no doubt that outreach and feeling that a tear in childhood and growing up can contribute to that kind of result. That's also the main reason why we, quite since the Left came to power as a cooperative party in the autumn of 2013, became part of a majority that had the possibility to do something about it, has – quite consciously and to a large extent – prioritised in all the budget negotiations, both on the Stortinget and now, after we have been part of a government, just to take action to reduce special child poverty, among others. by introducing free core time into the kindergarten and school leisure system and strengthening different measures at an early stage of life – health care in the school, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e815	The representative Breivik mentioned a lot of different ways of assessing developments based on differences. But there was one thing he didn't mention in that listing, and that was where you lived. What one sees is that there are both significant differences in access to services and different income opportunities depending on where one lives in Norway — both internally in part of our largest cities and in many places around Norway. With today’s government, we have seen a massive centralisation that has contributed to the removal of basic services for people in many places in Norway, and changes made in tax policy have had a major impact on areas in Norway. Why is it that the Left is voting against a proposal aimed at making the geographical effects of the government's fiscal policy visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e820	There is every reason to take seriously the rather heavy centralization forces, the gravitational effect, which over a long period of time contributed to the centralization of both power, man and perhaps capital around the largest cities. The fact is that there has never been less speed in centralization in modern times than now. It brings together the results of the policy pursued by the Left with the three other government parties, whether it relates to industrial policy or to transport policy, on the contrary, to the fact that we have gradually managed to stop centralisation. I am, of course, a district representative myself, and I live in a small area of six-seven, maybe ten, permanent. I want to say that when I belong to the Center Party, it sometimes turns out that I live in a sub-developed part of the country. On the contrary, I feel that those degrees are privileged who are allowed to live in such a beautiful building in such beautiful surroundings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e825	The public health service has a big hole, and it's in its teeth. It is to the greatest pain and distress for those who have the least, for all those who have to postpone indefinitely both dental visits and necessary repairs because the price is too high. The teeth are still not part of the body for the whole population of Health-Norway. There seems to be a broad consensus that this is actually a major social health problem, but in the message we are dealing with today, it is invisible. Here's the problem what the government doesn't do, namely promote a proper dental reform. One reason came and went last year, when the government parties here in the hall rejected proposals to strengthen Norwegian dentistry. In the context of the State budget, SV has proposed a reform with an extension of the public dental service and a target that no one should pay more than NOK 2 500 in dental expenditure per year. The left was a social liberal reform party. I would therefore like to ask the representative Breivik: what will the Left in the government do with the social differences in dentistry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e832	The left is a social liberal reform party. When it comes to teeth, the representative can be sure that for the Left's part we are in and fight so that several of those who need it the most, gradually get an increased offer to do something with their teeth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e837	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e842	Let me start by thanking the case-speaker and the Committee for a good cooperation and attitude, which shows the areas where there is great discomfort and also shows that there is a lot in this debate that goes across the different parties in the storeroom. It is also important to take this into account, which will also be an important debate. Small differences are one of the qualities that several of us produce as an important value, whether it's like a few weeks ago when several of us have held May 17th, or when we're going to write and make political solutions that take care of and renew that value into our time. The fact that this is a value that more people in this room are occupied with is also the reason why the Storting asked the government for a big message that deals with differences in wealth and power. This message also determines how Norway is one of the countries with the lowest income differences in the world, but that these differences have increased over time, while the differences between countries have decreased. Norway is among the world's highest standards of living, the highest quality of life and the least difference between people. This is because we have a society that trusts people, well-functioning markets, families that give young people a safe growth, good welfare arrangements and trustful cooperation between the social partners. Both the trend of small income disparities — which is now increasing — and the responses that lie behind this are widely supported in the political landscape of Norway. Seeing our society in a global context, there are trends that show why the differences in our country are increasing. Globalisation and new technologies are a trend that includes debt in Norway. These are powerful forces on both good and bad. The good thing is that the differences between poor and rich countries have been much smaller since the 1980s. However, where poor countries have become richer thanks to aid and freer world trade – millions of workers in poor countries have also been lifted out of poverty – globalisation also shows greater differences in rich countries. Workers in rich countries feel that competition for jobs is getting tougher, and wages are stagnating especially for the unskilled. According to the OECD, the earnings in the rich countries on average fall from 66 pst. of national income of the 1990s to 62 pst. in the 21st century. The benefits of globalisation and the growth of world trade must be distributed to a wide range of communities. This is also a debate where we look at how we do it in Norway today. It's where the political objectives and the political solutions come in. Since Stortinget ordered this message, the Christian People's Party has become part of the government. We have supported a government statement, which states that Norway should be a country with small differences, and that the government should work with the goal of fighting poverty and social distress, especially in families with children. Work is a key factor and one of the most important tools, and it will be an integration tool to get the most out of work and a raise for mental health and care. These are good wordings to be filled with content. In the past, when we discussed increasing differences and who was hanging in our society, that debate was dominated by age pensioners and minimum pensioners, and they were a natural group that was raised in debates like this. Fortunately, it's no longer like that. The elements of the debate that have emerged on the minimum pension list for now point to how the new ageing majority after 2013 has raised the minimum pension list by a total of $12,000 in the various national budgets. But the groups that are now seeing dominate the debate on who is following in our society are about single caregivers, about newly arrived norms, and it's about families with persistently low incomes. There's a good reason why we're going to talk more about those groups and be able to lift the extra ones. To create a society where there can be little differences, we need a society where we take care of the most important resource in the socio-economic sense of our country, and that's the workforce. The nominal value of future work for the North stands for 75 pst. of Norway’s national wealth. The best way to improve the workforce is to invest in the development of our workforce even when they are small. The Christian People's Party has over time tried to promise that a good childhood will last forever, and that ambition is also at home in a debate about how the differences in our country develop. Recent research indicates that it is the first years of life that determine how a human being develops. It's in the first few years of life that there will be more than a million new nerve connections in the brain that will be created every second. These relationships are those that shape the evolution of the architecture itself in the brain, and that provide the basis for future learning, future behavior and future health. If we're going to take care of it, we need caring relationships and safe participating adults to ensure the healthy development of the brain of the young. In most cases, parents are the first and most important and safest caregivers of the children, and later, kindergarten and other adults are decisive in these years. Unlucky factors such as the current high stress and insecurity in growth give irreversible negative consequences for the mental development of children. Research shows that when children are six years old, a difference in school outcomes can be assumed ten years later. In other words, what happens in the family and kindergarten of the first years of life is at least as important as what happens in twelve years of schooling. Already during pregnancy, the development of children and potential for learning later in life may be negative, e.g. whether or not a mother experiences severe persistent stress from a selected partner. Harvard professor Robert Putnam emphasizes in the book on differences in the United States that family policy also means something when it comes to differences between people. He stresses that young people who experience something as simple as having parents enjoy dinner with them, or read to them, make things far better at school. All this confirms that policies that support parenting and parenting society provide a room for parents to have time for their young, and that is a great asset to society. There is a need for a high level of vigilance and sufficient qualified childcare staff, and kindergartens are particularly important for families with low or usual incomes for the purchase of food, clothing and equipment, and health services need more resources not least to help families at risk of violence and abuse or other factors harmful to young people. Let's get an e.g. to a society that is only put on the premise of working life, at the expense of families, we all lose, because we are at risk of losing important contact with their closest caregivers. Family protection needs adequate resources to help avoid multiple life conflicts and breaks, which can lead to major positive consequences for children and the big community. With a better parental pension scheme for parents who have been in low employment, as provided by the new majority at Stortinget, even low-income kids in the first important years of their life can grow up with a safe and more stable economic framework – with little negative effects on the labour supply to mothers, following more public choices. Many also ignore the fact that cash support gives one-year-olds a positive opportunity to be more involved with the most important caregivers. All of this is investment in the future, and there is something that the Christian People's Party has prioritised high after we've been involved in making state budgets and putting leadership in how our country and society will evolve. It's also about creating a society where we invest in the most important resource for the future, which is our kids. And if we're going to create a society of small differences, one should also raise that perspective forward. We see that the birth rate is record low. There is a correlation between the policies of society as a whole and the number of births. We need to prioritize it to ensure well-being in the future and to create a society where we can use the resources to take care of the welfare state that is widely supported in the hall, which ensures that there are small differences, and that there are opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e875	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e880	The working party is busy spending the big money on the big tasks, just to give all the same possibilities. So we have a more devolved tax system, so we screen those who care the least, and let those who care the most and have the most wealth, contribute more to the community. Households with the lowest income have lost purchasing power. Will the Christian People's Party representative say that the differences increase or decrease when the government has given 1.3 million. kr to each of the ten richest in wealth tax laws and at the same time gave far more in tax laws to those who tend the most than to those who have little to travel with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e885	The answer to that is at least two-part. If you look at the people who have been taxed, about half have gone to people who have an income of less than NOK 600 000. This means that one has also raised the income of the families that have the least, giving them a greater room for action and ability to buy. Some of these tax debates we have in the Storting are often more polarized than they are based on. Both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party were part of the tax settlement that dealt with and gave leadership to how we wanted to design the tax policy in the future – where one has taken down the corporate tax, where for the first time a distinction has been made that makes it possible to lower the wealth tax on working capital. There are important measures to do what is most important: to make sure that there are small differences in our country, that families can live in good prosperity, that we can create more jobs, and that those jobs also benefit those who do not necessarily have the highest qualifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e892	Three out of ten have less purchasing power. It is a bit of comfort for those who have lost their purchasing power, that the average has increased it – or that one has spent a lot of money. The question was whether the government's reverse Robin Hood policy, giving large tax credits to those with the highest income and wealth, has reduced or increased differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e897	As I mentioned in my post, over time has seen a trend where the differences in our country have increased. Since the 1980s, it has been under changing political rule. Then it is important that we have a political majority in the country that manages to prioritize job-creating tax relief when a tax relief priority is given, and about half of the tax relief has gone to the families with income below NOK 600 000. I also think that's important when you want to see the context in how a prioritizes the resources you have. In the past, the Labour Party criticized the majority of people who have created government budgets for talking only about unemployment and not looking at the employment rate. Now he's also turned around. Things are going well in the Norwegian economy, and it's because we've managed well, because there's been security also about the pillars of our welfare society, that we have a society that's open and trading with the rest of Europe. I am pleased that we have a large number of people who are safe to control today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e904	An important recognition that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have come together, and that the representative Storehaug was also involved in his contribution, is that a well-organized working life is a prerequisite for a good family life. Having a safe environment around the world of work, with firm, whole jobs, that most of us have a job with a payroll to live on, is important and a good basis for family life and for people to choose to have kids, which is also something we want to make right. At the same time, we see a trend in which there is pressure on pay and working conditions for many employees, not least in the practical professions. Real wages have fallen by an estimated 30 pst. by those who are at work. Then the question is what kind of grip you're going to take, for example. have elected labour market management, regulate labour immigration, but also go in and investigate what is happening. Why does the Christian People's Party not want to support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e911	I feel quite certain that if we are to take care of the elements that are important in order for us to have a safe working life in Norway, trade and the possibility for Norway to participate in the European market are an essential element. I am concerned when the party says no to the EEA Agreement and to the pillar itself, which means that family businesses along the west of Norway and the coast can join in creating the jobs and export that secures our well-being. What are we going to live on then, if we're not going to participate in the most important market that's close to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e916	One of the worst images of Difference Norway is child poverty that continues to increase — over 100,000 children growing up in poor families and not getting as good opportunities as other children. Therefore, it should only be lacking that the child's fear did not finally increase, which SV has fought for too long. But what makes it so hollow is that about 60,000 children don't get child welfare today, because their parents receive social assistance, and they live in municipalities that pull away child welfare. So those who might need it the most, don't get it. What, then, is the Christian People's Party doing? Well, they say that only the increase can benefit these children, but not the entire rest of the child's fear. The 60,000 children who need it the most only get smears of increased child-responsiveness with this government's policy. Does the representative Storehaug think it's fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e923	Today, Redd Barna came up with a report that concluded that Norway is the third best country in the world to be children in. Although it is very pleasing, the representative is quite right when he says that we should be concerned about the development that is in child poverty in Norway. It should also be because it's been going the same way since I and the representative themselves were part of that statistics. SV is quite right that they have been fighting for a long time to increase child-responsiveness. The difference between SV, which has been fighting for a long time, and the Christian People's Party, which has been fighting for a long time, is that the Christian People's Party has got others to do it, so that it actually becomes a reality, and that one for the first time since the mid-1990s has been able to get a real increase in child welfare. It's a big and important saying. And then it's up to the authority of the municipalities how to define and count other good things, which have made it kind of unlucky to some places. Then it is also important that the municipalities that want to do so have the opportunity to take action to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e930	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e935	Sometimes words have everything to say. When the majority of the population asked the government to present a big message of action against increasing inequality in power and wealth, none of those words were randomly chosen. That's what we were wondering: what can we do with the big social problem that increasing inequality represents? That's why we were waiting for the inequality message. But when it came, there was no inequality message. The child of the government was then renamed to an opportunity message. And when Minister of Finance Siv Jensen presented the result, it was clear what possibilities they were thinking about: a golden opportunity to blame immigrants, to explain the problem and to disclaim responsibility. Until then, the opportunity message has worked perfectly well. At the same time, people around the country are now rebelling against unfair taxes and tolls, against the degradation of districts, and against the constant cuts in important welfare schemes. In such a time, the government appears to be “Comic Ali” when they claim that everything is going well in this country. For people it notices when families who already had the worst income have gained less purchasing power during this government. Then it's not just numbers. People notice it when they are thrown out of the work relief system, or when parents in the kindergarten have been cut off the child supplement in the disability benefit, or when it is more expensive for those who live in the shed or commute to work. People also get with them, whether they read it in Se & Hør or in Capital, that the wealth of the richest grows under the same government, while those who have the worst advice fall even more aft. Then Siv Jensen no one wonders when she points to immigrants with one hand, and takes away from the poor and gives to the rich with the other. If there's one thing the big message has shown us, it's that the government's policy is working. There is no need for numerical magic to understand that billions of tax dollars to the wealthiest of the country make the rich rich richer, or cut income schemes for those who need the most community, make the families poorer. The result is a society that is less connected, where one's power, freedom and security become more dependent on who you have as a parent, where in the country you live, and what health you have. There is a fundamental distinction in Norwegian policy between those who think this is a problem and those who think it is not a problem. Red has himself a proposal that shows exactly where the distinction goes today. We simply propose that the Storing decide that today's level of economic and social inequality is too high and that we need to get action from the government to reduce the inequality. That proposal is supported by the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party, while the bourgeois parties vote against it. They're obviously satisfied with today's situation. It's not Red, and we're going to use the municipal elections for the autumn, with our likely strong results, to use the municipalities as a counter-force against government policy for increasing differences here in the country. Differences can be measured in many ways, including geographically between those who expect children close to a hospital and those who are told that the maternity ward is summer-ridden. There are also democratic differences between those who have power over the dwelling of others, the job of others, and those who have to follow orders from it be their owner or company owner. This is difficult to measure, but it can be investigated. It doesn't want the government, even though we know that corporations and people with good lawyers are hiding large sums in tax havens, and that the real values of wealth are far greater than what the statistics show. We propose measures to increase the transparency of inequalities. Most people fill out forms for the great gold medal, while many of the richest hide their fortunes. But neither do the government parties support us here. I think most people realize that the problem doesn't go away even if the government parties see another way. With that, I recommend Red's proposal for the opportunity message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e953	The President would say that calling the government 'Comic Ali' is not entirely within the parliamentary language of this Chamber. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e960	I know that all the parties on the Stortinget are concerned that we should have a high level of organisation in Norway, just to keep something of the most important in our political tradition to counteract inequality and unprofessional working life, namely tripartite cooperation. The best way to do this is to work well-functioning tripartite cooperation with real dialogue and real negotiations between all parties. In the comments in the setting, Red points out that they have proposed that the government should provide measures on how to increase the degree of organisation. Red's own answer to this is to raise the threshold of working life for those outside, and to raise the trade union deduction. Then I wonder how reasonable Red thinks it is, because when we had a red-green government and the trade union deduction was constantly raised, the level of organisation went down. So how good proposals have actually been Red themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e967	Red sees the whole image, different from Right. We see that the manning agency release, on which the civil society and the Workers' Party were united, in combination with the eastern enlargement of the EU, is the underlying cause of social dumping in Norwegian working life, and that the degree of organisation falls in many industries. It is difficult to defend collective agreements when employers have almost infinite access to labour from countries that are poorer than the Nordic countries. We both want to increase the trade union deduction – that is in itself an entirely OK and proper measure – and to get the recruitment agencies out of Norwegian working life. Unfortunately, the government has voted down on this. For them, it is more important to have an opening for what are practically unemployed enterprises than to ensure that people get a steady position. If people have a permanent position, more people will dry to join a trade union. If you have no job security, you refuse to do so. We can see that, among other things. in the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e974	I am absolutely sure that if the representative Bears Moxnes had taken the time to read the statistics on how things are going with those who actually get a job through a crew agency, he might reconsider his position. But he doesn't want to, because he's a communist – i.e.. Red's national meeting has decided that the Bears of the Moxnes are still Communists. There's something special about a party that's trying to get the Workers' Party to become part of the right side, and that still celebrates the results of communism all over the world. No other party has had as many lighthouses in the world as Red. Their last lighthouse was Venezuela. So let's see how this inequality works out. It's a country that lacks food and medicine. Will the representative Bears Moxnes distance himself from the way Hugo Chavez destroy Venezuela? Will he distance himself from the restriction of freedom of the press? Or is Venezuela still a lighthouse for the Red Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e983	First, the national meeting in Red does not determine what members of Red call themselves. A Communist party might have done it, but it's not Red. It does not determine which tags you want to use about yourself. I call myself a socialist and I'm proud of it. I want a classless society and I'm proud of it too. I'm against a class society, which is what Right Policy leads to and has led to for over 100 years. On the question of what is happening in Venezuela, we are clear that the serious problems in the country are caused by both government policy – of course – and foreign sanctions. We are ringing round the protesters' right to demonstrate against any government, of course also in Venezuela. We are also concerned that reports show that perhaps up to 40,000 Venezuelans have died as a result of sanctions that deny the country access to food and medicine. We also believe that Norway must contribute to a peaceful solution that we are in the process of and that we support the continuation of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e990	Let me also start by thanking the representative Moxnes for the Rødts national meeting decision that it is still going to be a Communist party. It gives us great joy, enthusiasm and willingness to fight in position. Good separators make it easier for voters to make wise choices. I'm not sure what the inequality is in communist societies like Venezuela and North Korea, and was in the former Soviet Union, to name a few. In a way, there's probably pretty big differences between them at the top and those below, but because the rest is about everybody, and because everyone has the same evil, it's well possible that the inequality in these regimes is pretty small. But if you want to bring down the registered inequality, there are especially two instruments that are very powerful. One is war, because it is capital that is bombed first and hardest. The second is widespread stock exchanges all over the world. I don't think that Moxnes hopes for war, but is it that when the stock exchanges rage and he puts his head on the cushion, it's with a smile around his mouth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e997	First of all, if we were a Communist party, the leader wouldn't have lost a vote, so we're obviously not, because it went as it went at the national meeting. In terms of the levels of inequality, our goal and our point is not that we want war or stock-exchange. On the contrary, Red is probably among the least warring parties in this great crowd. While the others with life and passion send bombers to bomb poor lands, Red is largely opposed to these wars, which the Advance Party with life and desire supports in the Stortinget. Our policy against inequality is that we want to have a clean working life, where workers are organized and can get their fair share of the value creation. It became a problem of social dumping, and therefore we want to take action against it. Secondly, we protect those who earn ordinary or low incomes, in our alternative state budgets, and increase taxes for those who have over 10 million. kr in wealth or over 1 million. kr in income, in order to secure money for the community and to raise those who currently have the least. Norway is definitely in need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1006	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1011	Norway is one of the least unequal countries in the world. We also have a high standard of living, and we have high trust in each other. Many conditions have contributed to this good situation. In Norway, the differences in market revenue are smaller than in most other OECD countries. In addition, we have built up comprehensive welfare systems that provide education, health care and care to all. This helps to balance differences and to create a society with opportunities for all. If we cross the economic cycle, Norway has had relatively high economic growth in the last 30 years. This growth has benefited all groups of the population. For the 80 pst. of the population that accumulates around the middle of the distribution of income, purchasing power has increased by 75 pst. to 85 pst. during this period. Nevertheless, we also experience in Norway that income is distributed a little less equally than 30 years ago. For the low income age, the growth in purchasing power has been weaker than for the large majority, while at the top it has grown more strongly, especially in the 1990s. There are also more children living in families with persistently low incomes than ten years ago. The high level of immigration into Norway in the last 15 years is an important part of the explanation of a slightly different distribution of income. Children with a migrant background are overrepresented in the low-income group, and it is primarily the increased entry of children with a migrant background that explains the increase in low-income among children in recent years. 85 pst. The increase in child poverty is among immigrants. This development worries me. It is serious that more and more children fall into this category. We know that poverty affects health, educational opportunities and social networking. This is why the government has launched an integration promise to increase education and work, as well as a specific youth effort against jobseekers under 30 years of age. The most important thing for the government is to give all children good opportunities to succeed. As a society, we can't afford anyone falling outside already as a child because of their parents' income. In recent years, the distribution of income has also been influenced by cyclical developments. The fall in the price of oil in 2014 led to a severe setback for the Norwegian economy. From 2014 to 2016 there was a decrease in purchasing power, so to speak, all groups. This decline turned to a rise again in 2017, and the rise was strongest for the lowest decile. However, growth in income has not been strong enough to bring individual groups back to previous peak levels. In the longer term, conditions such as technological development and globalisation have also influenced the distribution of income. For example, EU enlargement in 2004 contributed to rapid growth in Norway’s population over the next 15 years, and those with a background from other countries are overrepresented in the lower parts of the distribution of income. The government works purposefully, and in a broad field, for a society with little differences and opportunities for all. But there are not only small differences that make Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in. High standards of living are also important for our quality of life. In a modern economy, income levels and distribution of income remain in an interplay between many relationships. Our high incomes are generated through efforts by employees and businesses. They are based on labour input and high productivity. Efforts at education and will and ability to change also mean something. Effective use of our total resources is crucial for the level of income, and therefore for how much can be shared. That is why we need to protect the basic conditions for economic growth and stability, including in a distribution perspective. We know that taxes and transfers mean a lot to the distribution of income and purchasing power in Norway. Taxes and transfers contribute to the reduction of the inequality between households in Norway by the order of 40 pst. The contribution has been quite stable over time. The differences between people are reduced by another 20 pst. if we also take into account the value of important public services. Researchers in the SSB have calculated that when we take into account the value of services such as kindergarten, education, health and care, Norway comes out with the least inequality of the countries in Europe covered by the survey. The tax system is the main source of funding for our comprehensive welfare systems, and yes: the tax system is redistributive. However, we must also take seriously that taxes and transfers affect labour supply, saving, risk-taking and investment. As a result, taxes and transfers also affect the ability to convert and grow. Both taxes and transfers need to be designed with care, so that they motivate efforts and facilitate the good use of our overall resources. Policies to limit inequality and strengthen opportunities for all should not be reduced to a question of taxes and transfers. One of the most important things we can do to combat inequality is to get more people in work, better integration and more people's skills through education. This has led the government's policy. We are taking the lead in inclusion work, so that the positive developments in the labour market can be used to get more of those outside the labour market to work. The government’s integration strategy paved the way for reducing exclusion and increasing employment among immigrants. Early efforts, intensive training, the strengthening of the professions and the adaptation of higher education to the needs of the labour market and the desire of the students strengthen our skills and reduce our absence. Completed secondary education provides an important basis for successful entry into and subsequent careers in the labour market. The rate of continuation within five years has been stable between 67 pst. and 71 pst. since measurements started 17 years ago. The government has implemented several measures to prevent non-response and the functioning of these measures. Students learn more and are more present, absenteeism declines, fewer falls and the proportion of those completing secondary education increases. The government will continue to pursue a policy of preserving a society of small differences, where wealth growth benefits everyone and where there is security of well-being. Small differences and opportunities for all build communities and trust within the Norwegian community. Our living conditions and distribution policies range widely from macroeconomic stability, active competition and the efficient use of society's resources, through trust building and interaction to solve common tasks, to education, integration, inclusion and work for each of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1053	In line with the agreed debate, the President will open the door to a change of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1058	This is an important debate, and I hear the Minister of Finance say several times that a society of small differences is good. But one thing is what you say, another thing is what you do, and one third thing is what you write. In the last period, I reminded the finance minister a lot of times of what she had in her program. As a government council, you go with it in the back of your head when you go to work: what do I have in my program? The Finance Minister’s party was elected in 2013 on a party programme where it said: ‘It is not a public task to balance wage differences that naturally arise in the labour market.’ There is a clear view, and it must mean that it is okay that the differences arise, that they evolve and that they have consequences for society. In 2017, the Progress Party removed this formulation from its programme, it disappeared. I think it's interesting to see, because the differences continue to increase. So I want to ask the Minister of Finance two questions: what was the reason why the Progress Party removed that wording after four years in government? And the follow-up question: is it a public task to equalize differences or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1066	I think I should remind the representative Gahr Støre that the differences in Norway have increased weakly over very many years, even during the eight years he himself was in government. That doesn't mean that the parties in this room are going to accuse each other of not being concerned about having a society of little differences – I think all the parties are concerned about it – but this debate shows that we have different answers. We have different actions and different suggestions on how to do that. In terms of wage formation, we have a well-functioning system in Norway. The social partners are themselves involved and take responsibility for negotiating wage settlements that are adapted to the economic situation we face – and they have done so. Gahr Støre himself has tried to create the impression that much of what we now see is due to the government's policy, but he skips elegantly over the fact that we have had an oil price drop, which the government met with good policy, and which the parties were with and took responsibility for, that helped us get out of that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1075	Thanks for answering the questions I did not ask. I will repeat the questions I asked: What was the reason why the Progress Party removed that part of its programme that makes the Minister of Finance go to work without it in his programme? And it is tempting to ask the following questions: Is it a public task to balance differences that arise in the labour market, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1080	I believe that the party programme of the Progress Party will come into being in the same way as they do in the Workers' Party – through democratic processes and majority decisions. That's the short answer to how programs become in different batches. When this Minister of Finance goes to work, she does it on behalf of a majority government, based on a platform on which we govern, which has the ambition to facilitate further the well-being of this country. The prerequisite for doing that is that we have a good, well-functioning working life. And we have that, both because we have good regulations, that we have responsible parties, and not least that we have people in this country who are willing to invest their capital in creating businesses and jobs. It is the key that the opposition can use this whole debate on inequality to fight to promote new, expensive proposals. But the prerequisite to afford to finance is that someone creates jobs and tax revenues, and then we don't have to send them out of the country through sky-high tax incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1087	Then I asked the question for the third time. While the programme stated in the previous period that it was not a policy objective to balance pay differentials, that it is not a public task, it is not now in the programme. The question is then: is it a public task, the policy task, to balance differences arising in the labour market? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1092	I have answered that question. The main question to Gahr Støre was how changes to a batch program are made. They are created through democratic processes in the various parties. I guess that's how it works in the Workers' Party as well. If I am not sure, the representative Gahr Støre will help clarify it. So to the question of the formation of wages, I've also answered that question. The whole point of the system we have in Norway is that the formation of wages is achieved through the social partners. I have not registered that the Workers' Party has called for a change to it, nor has this government done so. The fact that we have responsible parties helps us to make wage settlements that are adapted to the economic situation in the Norwegian economy at all times. The responsibility of the parties in the cooling water of the oil price drop has helped us to get through the severe consequences of the oil price drop more quickly. We're going to be very happy about that. Together with a wide range of other policy measures that this government has taken, it is now helping us to have low unemployment and high employment levels, and the employment rate is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1099	I do not need the Minister of Finance to tell this House that party programmes are being adopted democratically. It happens in my party, and it happens in the Finance Minister's party, and we're going to be happy for that. The question is, of course, policy. Nor does one need a response from the Minister of Finance that wages in large parts of Norwegian working life are made through negotiation between parties. However, there is a difference in wealth — and that is a main reason, on which the government uses three or four sides in a large over a hundred-page message, to increase differences — and also through income. The question is, when income disparities increase, the Minister of Finance's answer is that it is decided through negotiations between the parties, and that it is not a political task to do anything about it. That's how we have to interpret it. This means that the formulation they had in their programme is still valid, even if it is not in the programme. But then one can hear from the Minister of Finance: Is it a public task – after agreements have been reached on how income development should be in our society, and incomes come in several ways, among others. by employee income — combating those differences, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1108	I record that opposition leader Gahr Støre uses four lines when we're going to discuss the big message of inequality and opportunities in the Norwegian community, in a discussion about how the party program of the Progress Party will become. It actually shows that the Workers' Party doesn't have a lot to do here. So to the debate on income differences. Differences in income arise for many different reasons in a society. It's not just about the formation of wages. The main reason for differences in income in a society is the distinction between those who are at work and those who are not at work. And we see one of the main reasons why income differentials actually increase in Norway, which is also reflected in this communication, is that immigration to Norway has increased. When it comes to child poverty, we see this. It's the income differences that have contributed to it. But then the government in this message points to a wide range of measures that will be important to us to keep the inequality low. It's about work, it's about competence, it's about integration, and not least it's about facilitating more investment in this country, so that more people get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1115	Governments stressed the importance of labour market developments. Governments acknowledged that differences are increasing. Then I think the question from the representative Gahr Støre is quite timely: What is the role of the Storting in this? How does the government see the role of the Storting? Will the Storting, like the elected body, use its power and authority to organize the working life so that the differences become smaller? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1120	If there's something I respect, it's the Storting as the elected body. I have been elected to Stortinget since 1997. I believe that the Storting should do its job of managing the tasks in a wide range of areas in a society. This does not mean that all parties in the United Kingdom agree on the means and measures to be taken. That is why we have a debate. That's why we have discussions. That is why many different proposals are being made. But I think we should allow ourselves to raise our eyes and look at the consequences of the majority decisions this room has taken over the last six years. The consequence is that the Norwegian economy is doing well. The registered unemployment rate has not been lower in 10 years. Employment goes up, and it goes up widely across the country. Our labour market is working. People feel secure, happy to go to work. There's growth in all industries. Of course, it's about tax policy, it's about competition policy, it's about infrastructure, it's about research, and it's about competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1125	It's true that there's a lot going well. One of the main reasons is that we have an ever-increasing loan-funded private consumption that triggers enormous demand. But that's not my question. The Council of State now admits that the Storting has a role to play in subduing the differences. We have an actual situation of free labour immigration, we have free access to labour from EEA countries outside the Nordic countries that have completely different and worse pay and working conditions than those we have. Then it's not very surprising that the differences are increasing. The Centre Party and the Advance Party have different views on the EEA Agreement, but we should have a common understanding of the reality of what is happening in the labour market. My question is therefore: Is today's free labour immigration leading to a greater level playing field in Norwegian working life, a more well-organised working life and smaller differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1132	The representative of Lundtigen makes it sound as if I have not previously recognised the role of the Stortinge as the highest elected body in Norway. I disagree. There's nothing I admit. I really hope that all of us who are part of democratic Norway recognise and appreciate that. I am not quite sure why the representative Lundtigen came along, all the time we have implemented new and well-functioning regulations on this part of the lending market, just to protect consumers. But then for work immigration. It is now the case that the first people to leave Norway after the oil price fall were the immigrants. What we're seeing now is that it's not where the growth of employment comes from. It came under the previous government – that's absolutely right. Then the growth in employment came exclusively from labour immigration. It must answer the Center Party for why happened during their time. Now the growth of the ordinary labour market, among those who have been out of the labour market, comes, and we're going to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1142	Differences in Norway have increased over time. It started before the current government. We agree. We agree that the Storting is the top elected body. We agree that before they are elected, the magnificence representatives are agitating to do it this way and that way better for people. No agitation for major differences. Everyone is agitating for greater equivalency. And then we have a system of free labour immigration from the EEA outside the Nordic region, which means that the supply and demand of labour for a profession by profession is changing, resulting in a change in the conditions of power in the labour market. The level of organisation has fallen. Does the Council not agree that the system outside democratic control in Norway in the field of work provides the basis for increased differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1147	I'm not quite sure where it is the representative Lundteg will. He will probably have a discussion about the EEA Agreement. I think maybe that's what I'm hearing. I believe there is a broad majority in this Chamber who believe that Norway is part of this market, ensures exports and access to goods and services, and that it ensures jobs, growth and value creation across the country. We're going to be very happy about that. But to create the impression that much of what is happening in our working life is happening outside this hall's will and control – I disagree with that. We have a wide range of legal regulations that help to ensure that we have a good and well-functioning working life. And as I said in my previous answer, the immigration of labour that Lundtigen talks about increased sharply in previous years. Now it's not from labour immigration that the growth of employment comes, now it's actually coming because large parts of the inclusion population are starting to work and more people are being helped into the ordinary working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1154	As predicted, there is a broad consensus that we should have small differences – as expressed in this room. The big question is whether it is considered that the differences are too large and whether there is a willingness to implement measures to reduce the differences. Experience from countries around us shows that increasing differences may be difficult to reverse. This leads, among other things, to: to reduce the uptake of welfare schemes. We see that once the pay gap increases, the well-being state is weakened. The IMF has estimated that increasing inequality increases inequality — once again experience from different countries — and the longer one waits to fight the growing differences, the harder it becomes to reverse them. That is why the question is: Does the government and the finance minister think that the differences are too large in Norway today, and is it an objective for the government to reduce the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1161	Yeah, it's a government goal to reduce the differences. I think we have a common goal across all the party boundaries in this room. So the question is which measures we're going to put in. I believe that this government is constantly taking action to keep the inequalities in Norway as low as possible and to help combat their emergence. Then there's a recognition that there's been a weak development over the last 30 years, under alternating governments. I don't think any of those governments have had the ambition to increase the differences. That's why, through this message, we point to some very fundamental things we have to work with. It's about work, about employment, about avoiding unemployment and exclusion. It's about education and skills filling throughout your life. It is about integration policy, because it is also about people with a minority background living in Norway participating in society – contributing, working and paying taxes. It's about health. It's about growing-up conditions. It's about jobs. It's about participation in culture, etc., etc. We have pointed out all these things, and we are implementing measures all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1168	I thank you for your answer. Once we have established that reducing the differences is a political goal, we can measure the policy pursued towards that goal. Internationally — again — we see that the belief that tax cuts will lead to growth has been severely weakened in the international debate. We see that there is no evidence internationally that there are any alleged growth-destructive effects of redistribution through the tax system. We have also tried many times to get answers from the government on how many jobs have been created with the tax cuts that have been here in Norway. The question to the Minister of Finance will then be, when the taxes are cut by 25 billion. kr and the 0,1 pst. The richest has got 1.4 billion. In tax cuts, does it increase or does it reduce the differences? Or when, in practice, the trade union deduction is reduced and we see more part-time and temporary work, does it increase or does it reduce the differences? Or when people lose redundancy money and are forced on social assistance, does it increase or does it reduce the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1177	First, in the case of redundancy payments, the whole point is to make it clear that people will be told whether they are going back to work in the past or whether they are going to have a sustainable social security situation. That clarification I think very many people need to get. That is why I think it is good that we are now taking action to do so. So to the tax question. I am well advised by the IMF or the OECD to increase taxes in Norway. Rather, on the contrary, I feel that what we have done has helped to strengthen our own competitiveness. It is at least a fact that excessive taxes contribute to the flow of capital. It contributes to fewer enterprises. It contributes to fewer jobs. It contributes to higher unemployment. It contributes to a reduction in tax revenue and contributes to an increase in social security payments. I think it's a very bad way to go if we're going to afford to finance our welfare society over time. Then we have to have a competitive tax system that makes capital invest here, that jobs are created here, and that we keep unemployment at the lowest possible level and ensure that more people get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1186	In the revised budget, the government points out that 50 000 new jobs have been created in Norway in the last year. What we know is that 30,000 of these jobs have gone to work immigrants, and that growth is particularly strong among Eastern Europeans in short-term residence in Norway. In the past, it was asked whether Siv Jensen does not see that it is a problem when jobs with Norwegian pay and working conditions are replaced by people who have lower pay and working conditions, which are cheaper to use, as we see happen – unfortunately – to a large extent with work immigrants from Eastern Europe. Does Siv Jensen see this as a result of the free flow of the EEA Agreement, i.e. three out of five new jobs go to work immigrants, while at the same time we have many people who do not get a job in Norway, and that it is because these workers are cheaper to use for managers than to hire people in Norwegian pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1193	In the period 2008–2014, the whole growth in employment among immigrants came. In recent years, we have seen employers recruiting more from the domestic labour force, and many immigrants have also come to work, and especially immigrants who lived in Norway when they were employed. I believe that the government is about to start responding. Then we respond to the challenge of non-integration, and we respond to the fact that more people who have been outside paid work come to work. It helps to increase tax revenue, which in turn helps to secure our ability and ability to finance the welfare systems. So I'm very concerned that we're still going to facilitate the creation of even more jobs, even more jobs, even more businesses in this country. But then we can't send the capital out of the country, which is Moxnes' recipe, then we have to make sure it's invested here. This is the prerequisite that more people can get to work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1200	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1205	A week ago, Eva Britt Søvdsnes Myklebust visited my office. She has a long career behind her in fishing and since in care. She had problems with her health and moved her work capacity to an area where she mastered the situation. She wanted to work, she wanted to contribute. She has paid taxes and stood by the community. So he said hello almost full stop. She was ill-appointed and went over to work clearance. So, while she was waiting to be clarified, the money stopped, because the government decided to cut into this social welfare scheme. Eva Britt's story tells of one of the many ways into inequality, about inequality we could have restricted, stopped and turned around with politics, and about the consequences of the majority's policy in Norway, where we can afford to act as a community, while apparently we can't afford to give those who really need it, the help they deserve – so we can afford to give those who have the most relief and tax relief, but not those who really need help to get on with it. We have a government that without modesty leads to reduced expenditure on redundancy payments, because they have cut deep into the scheme. This is one of many ways of inequality. Differences between people are increasing. We agree on that. It is documented in black and white in the message we are discussing, which the government was required by Stortinget to produce. It shows that income inequality has increased during this government. The wealth inequality has grown dramatically under this government. Measured with wealth, we have a higher inequality than other OECD countries, such as the United States and Japan. United Kingdom and France. Few would have thought so. The richest 10 percent in Norway now own 60 pst. of the wealth of the country. Three out of ten households have reduced their purchasing power between 2013 and 2017, while the richest have become richer. Those with the most have got 8.1 billion. kr in tax cuts. In this message, we see that the government does not take an overall approach to limit the many ways of inequality. The launch of the message also shows that they are double wrong about the increased differences, including: fault of reason. Before the notification was made, the Minister of Finance said that the main cause of increasing inequality is labour immigration or immigration at large. Error, the SSB said a few hours later. And the government is wrong about the medicine against the differences. No simple action provides us with the solution to this challenge. Differences that grow are demanding to turn around. For this reason, it is so vital that the policy as a whole counteracts growing unemployment and inequality, that it gives all people the opportunity to enjoy good health, education and training, work to live off, the opportunity for everyone to live a safe old age. The government's message lacks a comprehensive policy to outsource such a course. This is why the Workers' Party, working on an alternative story, has made an alternative communication of inequality concrete by 83 actions across a number of policy areas — from work to transport to health, which will reduce differences in Norway. Just a few examples: school food for all primary school children, free SFOs for first-graders – regardless of the economy, pension from the first crown – one million Norwegians don't have it, regulating the pension so that no pensioners get less purchasing power when employees get more purchasing power, more money to the Husbank, so that they are able to ensure that people get housing, and almost 80 other measures. Even with such a policy, the inequalities would not go down from one year to another. But that would make a difference. And more fundamentally, combating increased differences is about what society we want. Here I believe there is one of the most obvious differences in course and direction between a Right and Advance Party-led government and a red-green alternative. A universal welfare state that offers a good and equivalent offer to everyone is a carrier of Norwegian society. A core value is that it actively contributes to opportunities for all and counteracts inequality. We have traditionally had high trust and close association in Norway. Increased differences threaten all of this. It also weakens our ability to face changes — ranging from cutting climate emissions and major changes in the Norwegian economy to the use of new technologies. The OECD and the IMF call inequality poison for conversion. Our neighbours Sweden went from the OECD's lowest inequality under social democratic rule until 2005, to the middle of the tree under the right government. It can happen as soon as possible, and Norway must not go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1222	We are a country with great opportunities and little differences. Many are involved in the labour market, we have large natural resources, a competent workforce and sound government finances. Prosperity in Norway is more evenly distributed than in most other countries. This is probably also the reason why the representative Gahr Støre had to present Sweden as an example – because looking at the whole of Norway lacks examples. But there are groups and individuals in our society who are outside, and the greatest social difference in our society is between those who are out of work and those who are in the world of work. Another big difference is between those who stand outside of society and those who are well integrated. We find both groups all over the country, but especially in the largest cities. The big cities are Norway in miniature. By 2030 we will have over 800,000 inhabitants in Oslo. We know that education is one of the most important factors for both integration and social mobility. This is why the government’s commitment to additional early school interventions, free core time in kindergarten for low-income families, the launch of a new Oslo South bet and the strengthening of the Groruddal bet are important measures. Nevertheless, the Labour Party is regularly out criticising the area initiatives, at the latest in a debate a few weeks ago here in this Chamber. But the criticism becomes extra hollow when their own solutions rarely consist of anything other than larger appropriations. I miss the concrete solutions and a debate on how we can get as much money as possible back: how do we get more people to work? How do we get more people to finish school or learn Norwegian? How do we get more kids to know Norwegian first day of school? I experience an Workers' Party that only wants to grant itself out of the challenges, but has no clear plans for that allocation beyond pure symbolism policy. Often, there is a repetition of government policy plus adding extra funds like the news itself. In the big community, there's room for everyone. There should be room for the candidate for a job, but there must also be room for the person who wants to create a job for themselves and others. There must be room for the one who has moved to the city to study, but has his heart in the hometown. There should be room for the refugee family who, after hard work, moves out of their municipal dwelling and into their own. It is therefore the government's commitment to social housing policy, the organisation of more housing and a better housing support system help to balance social inequalities. Many of the families and individuals I'm talking about today have children. When we talk about child poverty, it is important to remember that it is not the children who are poor – it is often the family who are poor. The poor families usually have only one or no income, and they often consist of people with short living in Norway, i.e. immigrant families. This is why the government has targeted different areas to combat poverty, especially among families with children. Integration skills, free core time in kindergarten and extending it to 2-year-olds from low-income families, increased child welfare, increased single-use benefits, increased housing support, increased grants for holiday and leisure services – all contribute to raising families. It's also what makes us get kids who get through a school run, through a growth, without falling out, so that they don't become part of tomorrow's inequality statistics. That's the part of the debate I wish we could have a lot more of in this room today. We are debating an opportunity message, a communication on inequalities, but it has actually been a debate on taxes and taxes on the part of the opposition. I hope we can continue along that axis the government has proposed: addressing inequality by addressing human challenges and creating good lives for these people where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1238	There has been an interesting debate so far, and I think the representative Holen Bjørdal from the Workers' Party said it was quite right – we have been discussing inequalities for many, many years, even when the red-greens crashed. Fortunately, the differences are relatively small in Norway, that is good. I believe that the important thing here is to raise those who have the least, and those who are out of work, because being a part of the working life is incredibly good, both for the economy and to make sure to reduce the inequalities – many other things that are important for getting into work. If we're going to get it, it's important to have a business where it's good to work, and it's going well, because it actually allows you to hire people, and it helps people with holes in their CV get new opportunities and get to work. Not long ago I was in an «Inn on tunet» farm and was told about a young boy who had really given up the school, but because he came into new environments and got challenged in other ways, he managed to pass and got a tractor and machine driver's letter. This is something that will be part of making sure that the inequalities are smaller, also for him, because he comes to work and will not have to be out of work – and that is what is important. Having work is good for the economy, as I said, but it's also good for both the mental and the social, and that's why it's important to have full pressure to get more people into work. Employment goes up, and that means that more people get better. So you could say that because the shares have suddenly gone very well for a period, someone has become richer, and maybe the inequalities have increased a little bit. But, as the representative Bjørnstad said – if the stock prices fall sharply, the differences go down. And I'm not sure that's what's going to be good. So in this debate, which is always typical of this kind of debate, I see that the socialist enemy number one is the rich or the ones who do good in business. It's sad, because we should be happy that we have a business life, that we have people who want to bet, who want to invest their money in creating new things, creating growth and creating jobs that make people get into work and into activity. It's important for most people. Job is incredibly good and important. This debate has also been – as is traditionally always the case when discussing this – a debate in which the wealth tax is the big, ugly wolf. Red, SV and the Workers' Party believe that the property tax is a terrible thing. It's kind of nice that it's e.g. a family business, Isola, in my home country that has local owners, who have Norwegian owners, and who thus have to pay property taxes – and as the Workers' Party SV, the Centre Party and Red would like to make sure that they pay more tax. But international capitalist large companies, such as Their competitors, with many thousands of employees, are free to pay property taxes because their owners are not Norwegian – or perhaps even better: Lerum, who is engaged in juice and shower production, who competes with Coca-Cola, Pepsi Cola and other international companies, is required to pay property taxes, while they do not because they have foreign ownership. I think it's stupid, because I would have liked you to have been much more concerned with actually facilitating Norwegian owners, Norwegian companies, to have the same competitive potential and the same competitive power as those you compete with. Then I think that what both the Council of State and others have been in, this by facilitating to create values, also gives opportunities to get people, as I said, in activity and in work. That's really good, because then the inequalities get smaller, and that's positive. I believe that instead of dogmatizing, one should rather provide opportunities to help those who often sit at the bottom of the table, who are part of the outside world, and make sure that they become part of the interior and get help to get work, because it contributes to less inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1257	Everyone who has spoken acknowledges that the economic and social differences between people are increasing. It creates weaker communities and a more unsafe society. The project of the Centre Party is inter-ethnicism — economic, social and cultural. It requires mutual respect between people in different situations of life and different professions, whether they come from Loppa or Holmlia. In order to do this, we need stronger popular governance of capital forces and private ownership. I underline it. It is absolutely necessary for elected representatives to be able to control the most important thing. There, however, we have the EEA agreement that stands in the way. The free movement of workers weakens a well-organised working life every day. The EEA is not a matter of concern, but a social organisation that makes greater differences due to weaker population-chosen power in Norway. The EU does not have a popularly elected body at the same level as the job. That's why we have the problems. The central party parole is that the Storting must control the labour market. Today's government is systematically working to make the elected government weaker. That is why the Right Party is the Counter-Police in Norwegian Policy. The Right-Leaded Government implements this gradually, more or less brutally, depending on how strongly the opposition in the UK is to contribute, stimulate or establish counter-government policies, whether in the case of redundancy payments, which provide more social assistance recipients, or in the case of women’s poorer opportunities for a good supply of food through the closure of food departments across the country. The government had to take a tactical retreat when the armoured guerrilla succeeded in establishing 80,000 support players for its position. With regard to the government's economic policy, the representative Sivert Bjørnstad has said it exactly – the government wants to lift them up, but they won't take anything on top. If you were to lift them in a booth, it would have been very expensive, and it is not possible to get a temperament without both taking a pledge and taking greater taxes and benefits from those who have the best ability. But it is labour policy that is the most important one, and for the Central Party, a well-organized working life is what gives security to family life. We need to regulate labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries because it allows us to ensure a well-organised working life. We want to look for inspiration from Switzerland, which is a well-organised country with high and good technological development and good welfare systems. I would also like to take into account the fact that the Centre Party is in favour of better integration of refugees and asylum seekers through participation in the labour market. The labour market needs to be strengthened so that we can have more jobs for these people in both the private and public sectors. Here it is necessary to interact with what I said about regulated labour immigration within the EEA area. The centre party represents a different country that is not seaworthy enough. We will take our responsibility for refugees and asylum seekers according to the principles of the United Nations. I would also like to draw up the former government council of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, which presented a similar message to the one we are now discussing, on 25 June 1999 – the so-called Equalizer message, St.meld. No 50 for 1998-1999. That's what they said. ‘As the Government sees it, the working line is essentially a right choice, because it signals that the right to work should also apply to groups that are poorly placed on the labour market.’ Note the right to work: we are not just talking about duty, but about the fact that those who are vulnerable here also have the right to get a job. It has been further followed up in the wording of the then government that ‘others should be able to contribute to the creation of value through the combination of work and social security’. Today, 20 years later, this is an even greater challenge because we have relatively fewer jobs for people living in Norway. The size of the population can increase the demand for people with disabilities. Keywords may be allowances, for example 10 pst. public sector employees and public incentives to employers, so that the difference between the employee’s working capacity and 100 p.m. wages and salaries in the trade are covered by government, in support of the employer. This policy needs to be combined, and the Centre Party is opposed to reducing social benefits for people in such a vulnerable situation. This is at the heart of the Central Party's policy on social policy, and it is essential to bring it up here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1283	«Possibilities for all» is the title of the big message we have for treatment today. «Possibles are limited by your financial position» would be a more striking title. A small-scale title choice, however, is not the biggest problem. The problem is that this government does not take increasing differences seriously. We have heard representatives of the government parties here explain that it is not a problem that the rich are getting richer, it is just a problem that the poor are getting poorer. We've heard Røres Henrik Asheim say that we have the lowest inequality in Europe, and the Progress Party Bjørnstad said we had the lowest inequality in the world. They cannot have read page 28 in their own message. It says something else. There's nothing in the message about how inequality in wealth increases, and we've had to use other sources. In a report we have found from Credit Suisse, it says that countries like Switzerland, France and the United Kingdom are now passed by Norway in terms of inequality in wealth — countries that are not exactly known for having a balanced distribution of their wealth. We shouldn't be in this class. But instead of doing something about it, the government is talking about us having the oil fund we can distribute. At best, it's a theoretical evasive manoeuvre. I don't think anyone who struggles to get into the housing market feels that a wealth one doesn't even dispose of is for special help. Over a ten-year period, they have 10 pst. The richest in Norway increased its wealth by 14 percentage points. They now own almost 60 pst. of all assets. When one tenth owns 60 pst, the others have quite little. So there's reason to think that these numbers don't show the whole picture, for those who have large assets, have at least previously had a good part of their assets safely located abroad, and then the possibility of settling this without penalty and penalties came, stated 10 pst. of those with the big fortunes that they had hidden assets abroad. There were few houses and cars on that list. When we also know that there are many people who haven't taken out the profits from their businesses, and that part of the wealth is not included in the calculations, the real wealth is higher than the statistics can get. The amount of income determines how much you can save, and where you save, also means how much you can build up your wealth. If you don't have money, it's not easy to buy shares, and you lose more and more compared to those who are so lucky to own the capital. Who, then, is the one who loses most of the money owners leaving? For us who are concerned with equality, the figures showing the distribution of wealth between women and men are alarming. We know that women earn less than men. The average monthly salary for women is 87 pst. of man. Many people think that this figure is worrying, but the number of differences in the income of women and men is much larger. Women only get 34 pst. of capital income, and the proportion has decreased in recent years. The distribution of capital income is largely influenced by fiscal policies. Tax haven frees funds to build more wealth, which gives even greater income to those who have a lot of money, i.e. men. When we also know that women earn less than men, and have less opportunity to save, it reinforces the differences between the sexes. So the possibilities are far greater for men than for women. Power and wealth are concentrated on few and male hands. Concentration of income and wealth results in concentration of power. Economic power can also become political power. Studies from the United States and Germany show that a proposal has far more chance of being adopted if it is supported by the wealthiest part of the population. Maybe we'll see some of the same thing here in Norway, when we see who's running away with the tax cuts. The possibilities are limited by one's financial position, and that's not good. The working party will give equal opportunities to everyone, not just to the few. That is why we have proposed 83 measures to address these inequalities. Unfortunately, there are only suggestions. Had they been adopted, it would have been a good opportunity to give equal opportunities to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1302	Norway is named for the world’s best country to live in, both by the United Nations and by others, based among others. factors such as life, level of education and gross domestic product per capita. Norway is described as the world’s best mother country, the most like-minded country, etc. When you hear the rhetoric and the argument from the opposition in this debate, you might ask yourself, what is the scale, the gold standard itself? We are among the countries of the world with the lowest income inequality, the highest standard of living, high trust and good distribution of universal welfare services, providing a society with high social sustainability and stability. And there is a broad political consensus in Norway that small differences help to make Norway a good country to live in. It gives great added value, which is a goal for the government to continue. The growth of wealth will benefit everyone. All, irrespective of background, shall have the ability to participate, to succeed, to contribute and to realise their abilities. The biggest difference is between those who have a job and those who are outside. It's about income, but it's also about a social community. Therefore, it is positive when updated figures from the revised national budget show marked growth in employment. Only in the last three years have there been about 95,000 more jobs. The registered unemployment rate is now down to 2.2 pst. and has not been lower in 10 years. It's about the whole country. Many refer to the development of the Gini coefficient, which, like in most other OECD countries, has increased somewhat in Norway but at the same time ignores — or fails to mention — the fact that it does not take into account the value of public services. Transfers and taxes reduce income inequality by about 40 pst. It is estimated that the Gini coefficient will be reduced by a further 20 p.m., taking into account the value of public services such as health and care, kindergarten and education. When you see transfers, taxes and the value of public services as a whole, Norway has the lowest inequality in Europe. It is also worth mentioning that developments in the actual economic situation, i.e. the development of real income, show a strong growth in purchasing power, an increase in median income in Norway after tax of nearly 80 pst. for the 30-year period 1986-2017. Living with persistently low incomes we know increases the risk of living conditions problems. It is therefore so gratifying that there are very few in Norway who over time have income equivalent to 60 pst. of the median or less, although of course there is a demanding situation for them. The proportion of families who report having problems getting ends to meet is about halved from 2004 to 2017, from 9 pst. to 4.9 pst. That's also a good sign. So in Norway, we have a high degree of equality, and it's at a high economic level. Our high standard of living and total value creation are subject to high levels of participation. If we are to be able to maintain sufficient sustainability for well-being in the future, we are to be able to maintain a high-distribution society of well-being, more of us have to get to work, and we have to work longer. Fewer people have to switch to different benefits, and more have to leave the Nav statistics. In particular, it concerns the younger part of the population and those with a migrant background. The government has taken the consequences of this and has strengthened the economy of families with children and has launched an inclusion tool to bring more people into the labour market and an integration promise with a strengthened introduction programme. This is part of the long-term solutions that counteract differences. We have also focused even more on education, on increasing the skills of the population and on enhanced healthcare to reach vulnerable groups. At the same time, it is important to have clear expectations and to make demands. It concerns self-activity and not least learning Norwegian. It is a reasonable requirement that we should be able to make to most. The obligation of activity for beneficiaries of social assistance shall be extended to those over 30 years. It is a targeted measure to prevent people from switching to long-term benefits and to counter exclusion. It must always pay to work, both through the tax system and by ensuring that welfare systems remain a safety net – and neither prevent people from taking part in the labour market nor remove the motivation to work. Continued economic growth and stability, innovation, transformation, productivity growth and efficient use of Community resources are the foundations of a good distribution policy. We first have to create more, we're going to get more to distribute. This will help the government to continue to pursue policies to preserve a society of small differences, providing security for the well-being and opportunities of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1333	The difference that we are discussing today was presented with the title Possibilities for everyone, but the impact of government policy does not build up the title of the message. The government is running a reverse Robin Hood policy, where the tax has been given to those who need it at least, where three out of ten households have reduced purchasing power from 2013 to 2017, and where unsocial welfare has been a hallmark of right-wing government, something the Christian People's Party has protested on to this very day. The attempt to explain that the differences are increasing by the fact that we have a large common wealth in the oil fund is at best a theoretical evasive manoeuvre. At least it's a bad comfort for those who don't get into the housing market, that there's a common fortune that you can't afford. The message clearly shows that economic differences are increasing between people in Norway, measured both in income and in wealth. The Labour Party believes that increasing differences means basic values in Norway, such as high trust, relatively high and even wages, and our ability to meet the changes in the future. That is why we have tabled 83 concrete proposals for increasing disparities. Participation in the labour market is crucial for the development of economic differences between people. We have to reduce the income gap, but more people who can and will work have to get a job. Then more people who can and will work must have full-time settings. And then the distribution of wage growth has to be more fair. We have to have a more progressive tax system, where the ones that have the most, the most, the most. This has been central to Norway for many years. A distorting tax system is decisive for a smoother distribution. It means a little bit more tax to those who tolerate it. It will give more to route to those who need it. With the Worker's Party, anyone who thinks about NOK 750,000 or less would receive less tax, while those who tend more than DKK 750,000 would have to contribute something more to the community. In fact, with the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, four out of five Nordics would get lower taxes, but those who have the most have to contribute most so that we can maintain the strong community and the high trust we have in Norway. The wealth tax is the most encroaching tax and is thus one of our most important tools to stop developments with increasing differences. The difference in wealth in Norway is now roughly the same as in the United Kingdom, France and Switzerland. Do we think that's good enough? The right-wing government argued for a long time that tax cuts are self-financing, but now admits that there is no basis for budgeting with any dynamic effects of tax cuts. It is a fact that companies invest to meet increasing demand. Lower taxes will lead to an increase in surplus, and the assets of the company owners will increase. The 10 percent with the highest wealth is an ever-increasing percentage of wealth. In 2016, they owned 10 percent with a maximum of 58 pst. of the private wealth, and there's reason to believe that this is darkness so that there really is even stronger concentration on fewer hands. Tax havens are a very expensive and inefficient measure to increase employment. For example, for the cost of generating a job through tax cuts, we could get 15 jobs in the private sector by giving priority to public investment. So the eagerness of right-wing government to lower taxes is a pure experiment in economic theory and conservative ideology. The Labour Party will give equal opportunities for all, not just for them. As I said, we have proposed 83 measures that address these differences, measures that change the price – this in stark contrast to the government's message, which does not include taxes and economic distribution. Should the stow course be the target, the course must be correct. Today's government has the wrong course. The course is made for increasing differences and falling trust. This is a policy that suits the few, not the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1356	Norway is the world’s best country to live in and is among the countries of the world with the lowest income inequality. We also have high standards of living, high trust and well-developed public welfare services. So we have built up comprehensive welfare systems that provide education, health care and care for everyone. This helps create a society with opportunities for everyone. But education in particular is essential for giving children and young people good opportunities later in life. In kindergarten and school, a foundation is laid on which individuals can build further through learning for the rest of their lives, and a good school is the key to everything. Right will have a school with opportunities for everyone, where students' talent and interests determine which school you go to. Where a boron or the size of your parents' wallet shall not be heavy on the scale. A bad school reproduces social differences. For example: math we know that the characterization of students with parents with higher education is 4.4, while for students with parents with no higher education it's 2.8. It tells us that today the school does not have enough power to compensate for social differences at home. So schooling has a huge impact on the lives of individuals. Where a good school creates opportunities for everyone, a bad school can be the beginning of life outside. Last week, the SSB published what we call the school contribution indicator. It tells us how much the school contributes to the learner's learning if you take away assumptions that may affect the results, in other words, correcting the figures for parents' education levels, incomes and possible immigration backgrounds. Then it's discouraging to see how much difference there is in how good schools are to lift students. These figures, together with the character statistics from the SSB and other bases we have, show that we have a different school in Norway, where there is still too much to say about which school you go to, where you live and who your parents are. The right will fight this difference school because the fight against the differential school is the fight for the knowledge school. Norway has among the best starting points in the world to create a school with opportunities for everyone. We're going to have to use that. And the right in government has done a lot to fight the precisely difference school to create a school with opportunities for everyone. We have introduced a limit on the quality of school before being offered help, and so far 66 municipalities and 227 schools have been followed up. So we've offered 34 000 teachers further education, and we've introduced a five-year primary school teacher education at the master's level. For the right, early intervention in kindergarten starts, so this government has been concerned that kindergarten should be accessible to all. We have introduced reduced parental pay and free core time for all two, three, four and five year olds. We have put a ceiling on how much of the salary is going to go to kindergarten expenses. When we know that kindergarten, school and education are so important for social mobility, and in order to be able to live independent and good lives, then I think it's a little strange that the parties that think they care the most about equalizing social differences, almost don't talk about quality in school. Let me give you a few examples: the centre party and SV are at a lower limit on school quality. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are against the requirement of immersion in Norwegian, math and English for teachers who teach in these subjects. In its alternative state budget, SV proposed to cut 500 million. kr – 0,5 br. kr – for continuing education. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are against the absenteeism limit. The centre party is against the teacher-specialist system. There is a lot that is not related between words and action in politics here. Education is the main single factor contributing to the lasting cohesion of social differences, because education gives individual freedom of choice and opportunities to work. Then you can't prioritize everything, or cut or delete the knowledge focus. That's what our kids are losing on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1367	The notification of potentials for all has demonstrated that differences are increasing in Norway. Differences in income and wealth are increasing. And Norway is not the best in the EEA. The message says something about it. But is it that dangerous? In the message, the government is very concerned that it is worse in other countries, and life, as we all know, consists of far more than money and material values. But unfortunately, it's that money means a lot to your possibilities in life. It means a lot to schooling and education, to participation, to social mobility. There is also evidence that it means something to your health. Those who have a better economy live longer and are healthier the time they live. The rich have access to a private health service, which those with low incomes can only look forward to. 58 pst. In a survey, the respondents say that Norway has a two-part healthcare system, and 81 pst. says it's negative. The Workers' Party agrees, and therefore the Workers' Party spends more money on our common hospitals and less tax money on buying services in private hospitals. In order to balance differences, access to higher education is important, and it is also an equivalent and good school. Then it means something if the municipalities get compensated for wage and price increases, so that they have the economy to run a good primary school. We should all be able to serve the school food, which gives all the students energy and profit to learn, with a school health service and teachers who have time to see the individual. The Labour Party therefore strengthens the economy of the municipalities. For my grandmothers, born around 1910 on the coast of Finnmark and Nordland, there was no possibility of education. They were working from the 14th to the 14th. Their children had access to the Loan Fund at the end of the 1940s, and the establishment of the University of Tromsø 50 years ago, together with several colleges and later North University, has given many Nordics the opportunity to take higher education. Still, there will be a difference in access to studies for those who grow up in our largest cities, and those who have to leave home to take education. Then decentralised education services become important. The cost of living is high in the largest cities, and access to furniture must be ensured at a price that students can pay. That's why the Workers' Party is betting on student cabins. A tighter housing market in the big cities and wealth development in most of them means that more people get help from their parents to buy a place to live. It can be a wise investment and give a good start to adult life, but it creates even greater differences between those who have parents with money and those who don't. For the most vulnerable children, such as those who were not born by parents with sufficient care, this could be impossible. Access to the housing market has become one of the main drivers of economic differences. This means that we have to use the House Bank again as a tool to help young people enter the housing market. The Labour Party has therefore proposed a start-up loan scheme and more money for the Husbank. We want a society where you should be able to get where you want, no matter who your parents are, and where you live. The Labour Party has a long history of fighting for social mobility and equal opportunities for all. That is the basis of our policy and we would not cut off the tax contribution from the large foreign companies that have factories around in Norway. We were against the fact that the state fund would cover the only tax paid by these large foreign companies to Norway, namely the property tax on works and use. The government cut that fall in 2017. We have been in favour of most of the cuts in corporate tax because it strengthens the competitiveness of our businesses. But the cuts in the taxes on wealth do not create jobs, they just increase the differences. They have voted against the Workers' Party. If we are to be able to distribute the resources of society more fairly, it must be the primary objective of the policy. Because there are so many forces in society that are moving in the opposite direction, the understanding that more fair distribution creates trust, increases productivity and strengthens the ability to adapt, shape politics. Good distribution provides better health for the population and a society where power is better distributed. Distribution must then be more important than giving relief in property taxes to large foreign groups and relief in property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1392	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1397	This debate began with the recognition of tripartite cooperation by the representative Asheim, head of our finance committee. It is good that he does, but there is every reason to remind the representative of Asheim at Stortinget that we have a finance minister who says that the Norwegian model is in the way of the Norwegian people. It is of the kind of double communications that the right-hand side engages in, given that they act so seriously on the one hand and on the other hand engage in false political propaganda. I notice that the finance minister later as she does not hear this, but there is every reason to get it very clear. If this is a problem for the representative of Asheim, I don't know, but it would be interesting if he could clarify exactly this – whether he thinks it's nice to have a finance minister who says so whether what he himself thinks is important in terms of both the Norwegian economy and the current situation we're discussing here in the Stortinget today. I don't think Asheim means this, but now they agree on something else: they represent the first government in modern times to say that they recognise the unorganized working life. It is, of course, an estimate of the whole basic idea of tripartite cooperation as a prerequisite for us to pursue an economic policy that creates equality. Here, too, the right-hand side reveals its clear double communication. Representatives from the right say quite systematically that Norway is at the forefront in many ways in terms of equality and the fight against inequality. But the situation is that it's going in the wrong direction. That is the theme of this debate. And what's this about? Well, that's the result of a misguided government policy in at least three areas: it's false tax relief, it's at the moment, once they've implemented tax relief, over-exploitation of oil money in such a way that it undermines the opportunities of the future to maintain a society of justice, and it's cut for the weakest. I don't have time for much, but let me just say that cutting off the children's supplement for the underprivileged and in the redundancy money and refusing the pension from the first crown are measures of a political nature that point directly towards inequality. That's the situation we have, and I just have to say I wonder how long the Christian People's Party and the Left will be on this path. It is of great interest to see how far they are willing to go, given that society is gradually being liberalised and built up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1406	I don't think comrade Kolberg gets an answer to that question right now. Taking into account both the environment, the economy and social conditions, sustainable development is created. As a health politician, I share the ambitions of UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 3: good health. We want to ensure good health and promote the quality of life for all, regardless of age. In 2016, the overall theme of the work on sustainability goals was «Leaving no one behinder». Everyone's going, no one's going to be forgotten. I know today a responsibility to lift a group that has been the subject of debate in this Chamber many times. It has become a matter that we have not resolved. I think about the paperless emigrants and their health situation. It's okay to start talking about Norway being the best in the world. However, in this area, health services for the undocumented, Norway is in the class that provides at least — together with a few other countries in Europe, such as Bulgaria and Poland. Most other European countries offer significantly better health rights to the paperless. In countries such as Belgium and the Netherlands, more or less the same health rights as the rest of the population are undocumented. The magazine The Lancet has published a summary of the health situation among paperless people in different countries, and the message was clear: in countries like Norway, with restrictive legislation and few health rights, have paperless 38 pst. increased risk of early and more than 50 pst. increased incidence of psychiatric disorders. Paperless people may live the hardest lives in Norway, without the right to work, schooling, health care and economic well-being. The organization consisting of a group of paperless, People in Limbo, says themselves that they want to contribute and get opportunities to work white while they wait. Health professionals in Norway provide the paperless with essential health care in the event of imminent death, severe permanent impairment, serious injury or severe pain. But even then, payment is required, as many of the paperless are unable to cover. Recently, as health policy-makers, we have been very concerned about food supply. My commitment to women who are to be born also applies to the undocumented, and I know examples that paperless women must be born at home without professional health care. Representatives from different parties have asked themselves, Shouldn't public take greater responsibility? Former leader of the Church's Bymission Sturla Stålsett said: No people on Norwegian soil should be denied free and professional health care. The Christian People's Party says as the UN: «Leaving no one behinder». Everyone's going, no one's going to be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1424	Here in the day I saw again the good series The Battle of Heavy Water. One of the important messages that that story conveys was how important it was for people in Norway in the resistance work to fight for the freedom of a fair society, but also for a similar society. One of those who took part in the work of resistance and who later reflected a little on what kind of journey Norway went through after World War II said it very well: we saw the democratic work as a continuation of the efforts of the war years, for it was not only about creating freedom from oppression, but also about freedom to create a better society – and a more equal society. Ever since World War II our country has, in a rough way, become better and better. The welfare state has been developed, important schemes of popular interest have been put in place, the state loan fund is a great success, and we have made sure that most people have a wage to live on. What's happening today, on the other hand, is that a large group is going back. It's something new, and that's what the debate is here in the hall. In previous decades, we have all progressed a little – at different paces, but forwards. In recent years, on the other hand, three out of ten have become worse off. During Erna Solberg's reign has 30 pst. gone back, and it happens at the same time as the richest ones leave. So now we get the big gap and the rapidly growing differences. We have to look at the concrete issues if we're going to bring down the differences. The Workers' Party will raise the economy and future security to one million Nordics with a pension from the first crown. But then the right-hand government says no. When we suggest that all our kids get food at school, so everyone has the same concentration and ability to learn, the answer is no. And when we want to strengthen the Working Environment Act, so that we get more fixed jobs, which is the main basis for how wages are distributed, and which we can contribute from Stortinget, then the right-wing government fights against Siv Jensen and Asheim and will really have temporary posts in the law. So we need to fight hard on all fronts, because we know that there are countries with least differences that are best for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1433	Disparity is a political responsibility to prevent and reduce. As my colleague Sandtrøen said right now, we must look at the concrete measures. In these days, the Labour Party's proposal for a reform of the labour force competence for treatment in the UK is. I would like to use the opportunity to stress that a broad and comprehensive competence reform will be very central to countering the inequalities that are emerging and that are going to be deeper in the face of the rapid technological changes we are in the midst of – unless governments intervene. Knowledge and competence are the basis for our growth and well-being, and it is necessary to succeed in the transformations that Norway is going to undergo. Norwegian working life is reporting an increasing unmet need for skills, but fewer take on continuing education and training, and at least those with a low background are taking advantage of it. It is alarming that the government is not taking sufficient action to meet the challenge of competence. Unlike the spin-off reform variant they have come with afterwards, the Labour Party has a reform of competence that is strong and holistic. It is aimed at both those who are at work and those who are outside the labour market. We ensure that workers are not left to themselves in response to these changes, that it is not only up to them to keep themselves up-to-date, but that they earn a right to continuing training. We do not shift all responsibility down to the companies, but ensure that the state joins in and finances this promise. Of course, our reform is based on tripartite cooperation and the Norwegian model, and it promotes closer links between educational institutions, businesses and the public sector. We see in the Workers' Party that digitisation and automation are going to change the working and social life quickly and fundamentally. Our answer is a reform of competences that really ensures equal opportunities for learning throughout life. Our goal is to get more involved in work, more to stay in work and better results in the workplace. Equal access to knowledge and competences will be essential to prevent social inequality, promote the security of labour and social participation and ensure that Norway is able to meet its future competence needs. We in the Workers' Party work thoroughly and systematically to ensure that new technologies do not create more polarisation and inequality, but instead contribute to increased well-being and new growth for all – throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1444	I'll say a few words about the relationship between inequality and crime. There's a hidden challenge here, as I feel in Norwegian politics we've taken a little too little seriously, and I think we're going to have challenges with that in the years to come. I would first just say that I had a beautiful experience here by day. I drove ferries in More and Romesdal and liked coffee and howling. I discovered that I could get it, but there was nowhere to pay. There were no people there. I gradually realized that it was self-service for coffee and dizziness. I looked around and found out that I could steal as much coffee, food and chocolate as I wanted. Of course, I didn't just do that because this was a system based on trust. It is absolutely essential that we have it like this in Norway – a trust-based system. The trust between people in Norway is high. It's low crime. In fact, crime in terms of profit and violence does not increase. For most people, this is a safe society. But it's dark clouds. From international studies, we know that increasing inequality in countries has major adverse effects. In such countries, trust among people has become worse. There will be more violence, more violence, more crime, and more people in prison. Why is that? Scientists say that when inequalities increase and people see others drift away, run away with good things and take advantage of the community, they experience themselves as losers in the inequality struggle. This leads to increased risk behaviour — in total from gambling, irresponsible borrowing, risky health, more crime and violence. So this is not about poverty. It's about differences. Fortunately, despite increasing inequality in Norway, this has not yet taken place — so far. But can we be sure that this will continue? If we look at other countries, the answer is no. If we are to secure this trust-based society, prevent the blossoming of crime, juvenile delinquency, recriminalism, attitudes like it's okay to break in, etc., then we also need to ensure for the future that the development of increased economic inequality does not continue. It is not certain that in ten years I will have the same good experience on the ferry that I had recently. If this government and the next government are not able to reverse this, governments will also have to assume responsibility for the fact that crime in Norway will increase. It's a serious responsibility to take, and then it doesn't help to try to prevent crime with increased penalties, double penalties on Holmlia, etc., when you've put yourself up to structural conditions that make crime increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1457	Six out of ten Nordics believe that we now have a two-part healthcare service, where your wallet determines what kind of help you get. We see that the economic differences between people in Norway are increasing, measured in both income and wealth. At the same time, we know that inequality is bad for people's health. Countries with large economic differences between people also have more mental and physical illnesses. Fighting inequality is a struggle for people's health. That's why we've always fought to strengthen our common health care. That is why we have also for six years warned against the privatisation that Bent Höie and the right-wing government have led. In the United Kingdom, authorities have gradually facilitated commercial companies, while under-funding their public health service, the National Health Service. It is now in crisis, with a lack of health professionals while offering ordinary people becomes worse. There has been an increase in the use of private health insurance in Norway. We're now up to 550 000 insured persons. There is an increase of more than 170 000 since the elections in 2013, when Bent Höie said it would not be a market for health insurance after the Right privatisation reform. A society in which insurance companies play a greater role is an Americanisation of healthcare. That's the wrong way to go. On Friday we could hear on TV 2 a doctor from Aleris say that the insurance companies that cover a greater degree of experimental cancer treatment will gain market share. This means that the health care security is becoming more and more something that people experience having to buy through insurance. So far during this period of government, the Workers' Party has prioritised more than 10 billion. kr more to hospitals than to the government – because we fear a two-way sharing of our common healthcare. We could afford more clinical studies and more treatment, and we could prevent the need for private health insurance. Who you are and where you live should not be able to decide if you get help when you need it. The growing inequality we are discussing today is also the engine for a further two-way sharing of healthcare. The Labour Party will have an active policy against it, not an active policy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1472	A place to live at an affordable price is crucial to being able to live a life of independence and good living. The working party believes that as many as possible should own their dwelling and that it should be of good quality. The difference between owning and renting owner-occupied dwellings is becoming one of the inequalities of society. Those who can afford to buy a dwelling sooner than before. BSU is a good arrangement for those who have good finances and money left but do not work to meet all young people's housing needs. The quarter that makes the least money is less tax credit for BSU than the quarter that makes the most. It is among the young people with the highest income and young people from high-value families that we find most who save the maximum amount of the scheme. First-time starters are getting older. Fewer of those receiving housing support own the owner-occupiers. This is what we politicians have to take for granted. Once again, the government reduced the lending framework of the Husbank in its budget for 2019, and with the weakened government the Husbank as a housing policy tool. We do not support a reduction of the House Bank and believe it is necessary to increase the House Bank's framework by 9 billion. kr. So we increased the Loan Framework of the House Bank to 25 billion. kr in our budgets. Housing is essential for people with low incomes to have a home or stay at home. The problem is both increased housing prices in cities, and there are many thousands fewer who qualify to receive housing support compared to the past. That is why we have increased the housing aid by 100 million. kr. The government has weakened the housing support, so that almost 300 million were paid in 2017. kr less in housing aid than in 2013. This goes beyond the very weakest of us. The government is now coming after, but we're not yet where the red-green government was in 2013. We will provide municipalities with more tools to build good quality housing for everyone. Municipalities must be given the opportunity to give people new roads into the housing market. The government is too passive on this issue. Look what the Oslo City Council has proposed. Now we have to give Oslo the tools they need to give more opportunities to go from renting to owning a home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1485	For the right-hand side, the inequality debate is a marathon in explanation. They will do everything they can to avoid talking about the main reason why the inequality in power and wealth is increasing. They want to talk about immigration, like it's those who have the least in Norwegian society, who have the primary responsibility for increasing inequality, and about school, as if it's the teachers' fault that inequality is increasing. But despite all the excuses, I think this message is very good, as the government – reluctantly – was ordered by Stortinget to make. It describes how the inequality of power and wealth is increasing in Norway, that it is moving quickly, that the consequences can be serious, and that the main reason is that the richest in Norwegian society are withdrawing. Today we have had many attempts to challenge the SV and the left in the issue of poverty. It's really brave of the representatives of the government parties to start a poverty debate, because it's these parties that have conducted one after the other that have made them, with at least in the Norwegian society, stand weaker than before. I'm thinking of the cuts that have affected the poorer dependants, the pensioners who, for five years in a row, experience underregulation of pensions, the single parents, the chroniclers, who have gained increased prowess, and those who have been thrown out of the redundancy scheme, and who are referred to social assistance. That is why the poverty debate is an important part of the inequality debate, but the main reason why inequalities are increasing is that the richest are leaving. Then we'll hear that there's no problem. Well, it's a problem when power and money come together on fewer hands than before. The inequality debate is about the distribution of power in society, about who to decide, and it is about how to distribute power. So when two thirds of the 100 richest in Norway are heirs – they've inherited wealth instead of creating wealth – it says something about a power concentration in Norway that we don't want. The inequality debate is about the social glue in our society. It's about trust between people. It's about the need to experience that people get what they deserve, that we stand together, that we have working communities. Therefore, the growing inequality in power and wealth is a threat to the best of Norway: the small differences and the strong communities. That's why the inequality debate affects us all and the quality of this society – not just the poorest and the richest, but all of us. We need the opposite of the policy pursued in Norway today. We need a distribution policy that is for the many and not for the few on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1496	The most striking thing when the right-wing party is going to discuss differences is that they're just talking about raising them to the bottom, about poverty, immigration and low-income families. It's important, but it's only half the image. If we're going to reduce the differences, we also have to talk about the ones on top, the ones that the government has contributed to subtract from the rest of us. But it's probably more unpleasant to discuss, because then we also have to talk about taxes and redistribution, for example. that it has become more and more profitable to be capital owners and the correspondingly less profitable to live only on their own labour force. Time and again, it's easy to get rich in Norway, that we have a high concentration of millionaires and billionaires. It's not a problem for the Workers' Party that someone in society has capital. What's the problem is when the distance between the top and the bottom of the table becomes too large, as we see the contours of. The 10 pst. with the largest property 58 pst. of the private property of Norway in 2016. Differences in wealth in Norway are now in line with the United Kingdom, France and Switzerland. We have to do something about that. Tax and redistribution are part of the answer – a little more tax for those who tolerate it, giving more to route to those who need it. That even those on top have to contribute to small differences, the right part should stop raising itself above and rather start to embrace, because small differences are good for everyone, even for the rich, and the reasons for there are many. I can list four: People who have big fortunes, like to own a business. Then it's stupid for them that more and more people get bad advice and can't buy their products. Increasing differences weaken trust in society. It is negative for the economy because we need to spend more time and money controlling each other – both authorities and businesses. When trust disappears, the resistance to trade increases. It is particularly stupid for business owners who need markets to sell their goods on. A society of great differences reduces social mobility. It's also stupid for companies, who can miss valuable talent and have problems recruiting the right skills. Right is the foremost interest of the people of Norway. My clear recommendation to the Right Representatives here in the Chamber is to spend less time on short-term interests to pay a little less tax and more time to explain the rich why they also tend to contribute to the effort needed to create stronger communities and smaller differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1520	Money is power and gives power, and if you want to see what's important to a government, you can keep your eyes fixed on the money and see who gets, and who loses. I have listened to this debate today, and I have, among other things, heard from the government parties that they have strengthened the housing support. I brought with me the annual report from the House Bank for 2018. I've been going through the numbers carefully, and I've been looking at these numbers over many years. There are some of the few who get – and there are therefore thousands who have lost the housing support since this government took over – getting a little bit more in housing every month. But you have to look at the other numbers, too. How have the bout poisons of these people been? Well, the average bout charge per month has increased by $114. How has the income of these people gone – for these are people who really have low incomes? Yes, it has decreased by 420 kroner the month from 2014 to 2018. Then it helps very little that the housing support has increased by 350 kroner. So this is going to be $118 to the negative. You have to be quite poor to get housing support in Norway. The average income of those families is NOK 130 000. So the government in the revised budget says that there are even 3 100 fewer people who are going to get housing support now, and that's because they have increased income. Yes, it is because they have just reached the limit that is so low today that almost no families with income of over 200,000 kroner have received housing support. What do they lose to the families? What are the families that just go over that income line? Yes, the average payment for housing aid is approx. NOK 31000. It's a disaster for families who have such bad advice. This is some of the very serious things that this government has not corrected. So we're spending less money now, according to the Husbank's annual report, on housing support than we did in 2014, even less than we did in 2009. It's just to follow who it is that government can afford to assist. It's them with the biggest houses, the biggest properties and the biggest incomes, while the people who struggle the most to be safe in their homes and to see their kids in their eyes every night and tell them that we're going to live here, this government can't afford it. Then the differences increase, and differences are poisoned in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1531	It is not only money that is disparately distributed in Norway, but also health. In Norway, social disparities in health are increasing, and social differences in health are greater in Norway than in many other European countries. A short time ago, we were presented with new research showing that men with high incomes can expect to live up to 14 years longer than those with the lowest income. I think there is something fundamentally unhealthy about the fact that people with lower education and lower incomes should be able to expect to live shorter and poorer health than those with high education and high incomes. Health inequalities are fundamentally unfair. As a community, we cannot accept that background and income should determine how long people live and how healthy they are. I miss the government's response to and commitment to just this inequality in health. A good childhood says we stay out of life, but it does the jam a bad one too. If we establish healthy habits early, we know they last life. The parents' background and income should be as low as possible as to whether children will have a good future. In common, we could do so much more for children to have just a good future and a good health. The working party will introduce one hour of physical activity at school and a single school meal. There are simple measures that can erase the social differences in health. Research on school food systems shows that just children who come from a few resources are the ones who benefit most from this scheme, but we also know that all children, no matter what home they come from, can get a better starting point for both learning and health with school food. The school has an unused potential for eradicating differences in health. By going to school, we all reach children, regardless of background. The size has made important decisions to ensure physical activity in school, and we are eagerly waiting for the government's follow-up. It's just a little bit of a shame that we've been waiting quite a long time now. It's dramatic when evolution goes in the wrong direction. When health inequalities increase, it should motivate the government to act and to convert public health policy. In these days, we are discussing the public health communication in the Health and Welfare Committee, but we are not seeing any evidence of concrete measures that could have done anything about the increasing differences in health. It's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1546	Politics is nothing but health at large. These are the words of Rudolf Virchow, who was a German politician at the end of the 1800s, and he is considered the founder of social medicine. For how we distribute conditions and framework conditions in society – such as income, work, education, housing and the environment – the framework for health also determines. A society with small differences, which provides security for everyone, and which has a fair distribution of income and work, is policy, but it is also a fundamental health policy. In Norway, differences in income and wealth are increasing. The richer will be richer. In Norway, social health inequalities are also increasing. It has a context. There's no reason for us in Norway to have an increase in differences or increase in social health differences, but that's the situation. There are five to six years of life difference between people with high education and income and people with low education and income. Years of good health vary the same way. This big message has the title Possibilities for everyone, but it doesn't provide a recipe for it. When the Center Party's Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa presented the anti-dithering message in 1999, it was based on important strategies. The main point was to give security to those groups that had it most difficult in society. It was about targeting the social security and welfare system even better against those who were the worse off. A smoother workspace was proposed. Today's government is tightening up the scheme instead of being more flexible, evening out the debate on redundancy money. One suggested better public services as a measure to smooth out. Today's government is doing the opposite. One can look at the local economy, what happens in our healthcare businesses. Half of the population now think that we have a two-part health care system that doesn't provide help as needed, but helps with the size of your wallet. It's pretty serious. In 1999, one proposed a fine-grassed safety net. The government is now doing the opposite. One suggested a more social housing policy. The government does the opposite - take the debate on bus pay. In terms of area by area, we see that what happens politically is a policy of increasing differences, rather than having a policy where we take extra good care of the poorest. Therefore, this message does not have the great value today. We need a new policy to have a society with confidence, small differences and good health policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1561	After the suspension and debate to judge, there is a cross-political consensus that it is important that differences are small in a country. It builds communities, contributes to high trust and is good for the economy and the ability to convert. What is then a sin is that the government does not conduct a policy that systematically builds up under this objective. The fight against increasing differences is not primarily about helping those who are struggling, as the representative Hoksrud expressed it in a reply. It is about securing the structural and political pillars of society, which underpin the preservation of a society of small differences and high trust. One example is tax policy. Another example is wage formation. Since the 1970s, the share of capital holders in value creation has increased at the expense of employees. Also in Norway, we see the trend, but less than in other countries. The counterpower has been in our way of organising wage formation and our tripartite cooperation. Once again, we see that the government's policy weakens this counter-power. A high level of organisation is a key in tripartite cooperation. The Government recognises the unorganised and weakens incentives to organise itself by freezing the quota deduction. The working party will double it. The Progress Party has been a louder target of a stronger individual wage formation, and Siv Jensen built its entire national meeting speech in 2013 around the fact that the Norwegian model stood in the way of the Norwegian people. Does she still mean that today, after six years as Minister of Finance? I think the Minister of Finance should respond to that in this debate. The weakening of the trade union movement has always been a goal for the right parties because it will weaken the political counter-power of the right-hand side solutions to the societal tasks. It will weaken workers' influence and vote in the social debate. Then the larger room for the capital. Shuffled distribution of income and capital is not just about money; it is of course also about power. Let me add that around this country we are blessed with capital owners who have strong foundations in their communities, who have built their fortunes based on local resources, and who give much back to the community – jobs, of course, but also sponsors – and who thus share their values with those who have helped build them. There's a lot of patriotic capital. This also stems from the value of a society with small differences. There is yet another good reason to paralyze these values and focus on the policy solutions and measures that are countering the forces that are drawing in the wrong direction. The Labour Party offers 83 concrete actions across the board of policies. The government should embrace them, take them to it and join in putting them into life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1579	Differences in power and wealth are increasing. It hits the many who are hanging again, while the richest ones leave. But the differences also affect the small ones. It affects the children and the families. The economy of families with children is under pressure. An increasing number of families are living under persistent low incomes, which increases the risk of child poverty. Over 100,000 children now grow up in poor families. There are 100,000 children who don't get as good opportunities as the other kids. How does the government choose to meet this shameful development? Yes, by making more remedial and need-tested schemes. Instead of doing something about the increasing differences, Erna Solberg says that those who have the least need to apply, document how little they have, and ask for alms. At the top of it all, growth is driven forward by large tax gifts to those who have the most, combined with cuts in welfare for those who have the least. But maybe the worst of all is how Difference Norway hits the really vulnerable children. Child protection shall provide care and protection for the children among us who do not receive a safe upbringing at home. But in recent years, more and more attention has been paid to the store, not to children, in this service. A few commercial companies have also begun to dominate a private child protection market. Rather, the funds that the community grants to care for the children are placed on the market for the economic elite. At home in Østfold we also have examples of a commercial child protection baron that has sold its company and cashed in almost 60 million. kr – our tax money that should have gone to the child’s protection. It affects the children, and it affects the employees, as it did in another example, also from Eastfold, where the child protection barons demanded that the employees pay for furniture on the institution of their own pocket, while — once again — casing out the surplus. It's also part of the story of Difference Norway: how the community's money, which should have gone to the welfare of the many, is going to build fortunes for the few. But fortunately, the growing differences are about politics. There is no natural law; it is possible to prioritize differently. We can choose care before placing on the market in child protection. We can put kids in front of the store and say no to the profit of our well-being. We can put people in front of markets and make sure it's good enough staff, so the employees have time to see each and every child. And we can raise the economy for families with children by increasing child welfare, also for those over six, also for the 60,000 children from families on social welfare. Then we raise the little ones among us, not just those with big wallets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1596	Work gives less inequality. Norway shall be a country where everyone has the opportunity to participate and succeed, irrespective of background, gender, ethnicity and functional level. It is important that everyone who can and wants to work should get a job. But at the same time, we have to make sure that we have good arrangements that take care of those who cannot work or who need help to get into work. Work is the basis for well-being, both for individuals and for society. For most, work is the main source of income. Work makes individuals financially independent. Work provides opportunities for self-realization, and work provides social inclusion. The Right will ensure that people are not pushed out of the labour market and that more are included, through inclusion opportunities, the commitment to integration and new skills policies. More jobs will help to counteract economic and social differences, and a good work environment promotes both health and inclusion. One often gets fresher from being able to work. The inclusion virtue is about seeing opportunities. We have to work so that people do not get sick out of work, and that we help those who have the opportunity to work. The longer a person is away from work, the less likely he is to be able to get back to work. We have many tools to achieve the target of more at work and fewer health-related benefits. Nav offices have improved professional environments and the response system is simplified and made more flexible. In addition, a youth effort has been put in place to deliver good results, while at the same time strengthening cooperation between Nav and the business community. Individual job support has proved to be a good measure, and the new IA agreement has become general and is now taking full employment with the testing of new instruments. We must succeed in integrating. It is important that we be able to include, both in working life and in social life, and the way from new arrivals to workers should be short. The introduction programme now focuses more on the work dimension, improved language training and faster inclusion. On the right, it will counter exclusion and facilitate a socially sustainable society, where it can contribute as much as possible as part of the community. Our efforts to combat inequality and to continue a society of high well-being are aimed in particular at education, integration and work. And work is important for the individual. A member of the Church's Bymition said to me last year that the best measure they had to combat poverty and inequality was Frtex and that one has the opportunity to get a job. The right and government inclusion rates have ambitious objectives of including more people in work, and the social partners contribute to this. The goal must be for everyone who can and will work to get a job, but that we also have good arrangements for those who fall outside. It creates a society of less inequality, and work creates less inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1613	Differences are increasing in this country. Those who have the least, get even less. Work life is one of the arenas that contribute to increasing differences under this government. I would like to site Jan Olav Andersen, who is the leader of the EL and IT Association, who said in the VG in March this year: ‘I’m afraid we’ll get a new subclass in Norway. It consists of hardworking people without a good salary to live on. I also fear that today's government will sit still and watch this grow." Jan Olav Andersen is concerned, the workers are concerned, and I – in line with them – am concerned about this. The government has opened up for temporary addition and for new and shorter contracts. Social insecurity is growing and spreading. When I'm out visiting people at the workplace, it's just this insecurity they tell us about – about short contracts, about rents and about part-time. People are embedded in a project, but don't know if they get a job after the project has finished. Many women in the care and care industry receive part-time pay for part-time work. These are ladies working in sectors that are organised around part-time. The resolution does not consider anything to be done with this. These developments result in an even more uneven balance of power between workers and employers. It is simply not possible to take a great deal of responsibility for the union work when working part-time, as these women do. SV wants a work life where employees can be safe in their jobs, with strong unions. Wages and salaries in the Norwegian labour force are increasing. The groups with the highest wage level simply subtract. The real growth of the 10 percent richest is 15 pst. in the last few years. Wages and salaries to those with the 10 percent lowest wages and salaries have remained completely silent or have fallen. The implication of poor workers is something that we hear more and more about. These are very common people, like, for example. to be added to industry, construction and construction, transport or trade and service, which simply does not make it go round with the wages they have. Now I see that my time is about to go out. I wasn't quite finished, but I'm very critical that the government actually doesn't do anything about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1635	I agree with those who today have pointed out that we must not confuse inequality with poverty, because although it may be related, the debate and solution will be different, so I will try to raise them a little bit. An example of this is the increase in child welfare by the government, which SV believes is the most effective means of combating poverty. Increasing a universal system that strikes both poor and rich increases the differences between the many families that save this money for their children, and the families that need child welfare, where it goes into monthly consumption. The children who receive money on the book make a head start on the other children when they enter the property market with over 300,000 kroner. In fact, the action taken by the SV against poverty can help to increase inequalities, but they do not have to be wrong about it. Socialist economist Thomas Piketty says that inequality itself is not a problem if it is perceived as reasonable and can be explained. Most people accept that people at work have more than those who are not at work, and that corporate owners who create jobs and values for society also create values for themselves. The main measures to reduce inequality, says Piketty, are to invest in knowledge and school and ensure that everyone has access to good and reasonable healthcare. Redistribution not only via taxes but also via public services — we do so in Norway. The left-hand side should therefore also understand the difference between income inequality and giving opportunities to others. Globalisation has shifted the output of your goods and services cheaper, which has hit them primarily with low education and low wages in developed countries. Digitisation and automation lead to fewer jobs requiring medium-sized competences, while the share at the top and bottom of the distribution of skills and income has increased. It contributes to a more biased distribution of income and a polarisation of the labour market, which we also see outside Norway. Part of the solution is a reform of skills, which the government is already working on, but we also have to make sure that ordinary workers do not experience increased costs and fewer opportunities in the labour market, which leads to a polarization of the economy, as we have seen in England and the United States. That's why we need a better debate on taxes and distribution than the left-hand side adds up. Internationally, we see companies that organize so that they almost don't tax where they have income. This needs to be changed internationally, but in such a way that it continues to promote value creation and trade. Nationally, too, we need a debate on taxation of labour, capital and investment to straighten us out for the future. Our welfare systems provide education, health care and care to all. These contribute to the reduction of inequality, they contribute to the creation of a society with opportunities for all, and they constitute the social sustainability of our welfare society. Trust in institutions and political processes contributes to stability, which in turn increases the willingness to innovation and economic risk. It is also worth including in this debate. That's exactly what society this government wants, with opportunities for just everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1650	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and most people have a good life. Differences in Norway are small, and the vast majority of the population are well off. But it's a skinny comfort for those who fall outside. There are two angles of incidence to help those that fall outside. You can, as the socialist and communist side of this room, patch up the challenges and help people temporarily through social benefits and transfers. Or you can get on the line that the Progress Party wants – help people who are struggling, through a decent, good and safe welfare system, while at the same time doing what you can to get the best possible opportunity to stand on their own. The Norwegian safety net will help people who fall, but at the same time it must be a trampoline that brings people up again, not a yarn that catches you forever. We know that there are three main steps we need to take to help those who are struggling: to improve integration, to increase the skills of the population through education and, not least, to help more people live off their own jobs. But it's not like politicians create private jobs. It's business that creates the jobs we need to give more people the opportunity to live on their own income and get out of poverty. Our job as politicians is then to facilitate business in many fields. And we do that with this government. We have e.g. increased the transport budget by 41 billion kr to over 73 br. kr in our time in government. There is a grip that helps those who fall outside, because it increases business opportunities to grow and expand. We know that absenteeism and drop-outs from high school are falling, and that business has been reduced by red tape and, above all, tax burden. What's also important to look at is, are we raising the ladder after us or not? I am therefore proud that the Progress Party and the government have been modernised by the Labour Environment Act, making it more flexible, so that more people have a place in the labour market, so that more people have the opportunity to try their way into working life. Because it's not like all people are completely A4. Everyone has their own challenges in life. There may be health or other challenges. Then we must have a working life that actually takes care of both the individual and the flexibility of the businesses. There's something this government has made clear, and we see the results: the unemployment falls, more and more people now have the opportunity to try their way into work. The ideology of envy does not help anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1663	One of the best things about Norway is that we live in a society with small differences and high trust. As several have repeated in this debate, where I think it is important to stress why we are talking about differences and not just poverty, is that small differences and low inequalities are good for everyone. It gives rise to greater economic growth, less crime and higher life expectancy. We also know from research and from experience from other countries that when inequalities grow and become too large, inequality results. The emergence of welfare schemes is weakened when inequalities become too large. The wealthiest are getting more and more power and are able to fight policies that would be redistributive. We have seen this from experience in other countries. Therefore, there is just reason to warn that inequalities in Norway are too great today, and if we allow them to grow, policy measures that will reduce them will also be more difficult. We have heard that the Minister of Finance believes that the differences are too large in Norway today and that they must be brought down, but then one must actually have a policy that leads to it. Today's government policy doesn't work. Differences in Norway are increasing. It would have been refreshing with some humility from the government parties, that they could acknowledge that the differences are increasing rapidly on their guard, and that the policies they run are not actually working to bring down the differences. I have tried to challenge the government parties on this today. If we're going to have the inequalities down, we need a safe working life. We must have redistributive taxes and broad welfare arrangements. That's what the inequality researchers say is the most important thing we can do. In working life, the government will not increase the trade union deduction, and they will not strengthen the right to full and permanent jobs. However, experience from other countries shows that there is a clear link between lower levels of organisation and greater inequality. So it doesn't just help get people to work. Having poor workers has an example of this in many countries, including now in Norway. We need a work life that's organized, where it's safe. That is what is essential for small differences. Nor does the government have any professional evidence that a less redistributive tax system generates greater growth, but when the tenth of the largest wealth in Norway has received one third of the tax cuts, it can be asked whether it increases or decreases differences in Norway. My claim is that it increases the differences in Norway. We've been talking about the unsocial cuts in welfare, but we need to extend the well-being of universal welfare systems that hit more people than today, not tighten it up. It is the key to small differences in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1676	The aim of the Workers' Party's policy is for everyone to have equal opportunities. Therefore, it has a self-esteem that the warehouse worker and the director are next to each other in the same hospital, that they are in the same class at the common school and in the same nursery. It has a very own value because it develops our common social understanding. It creates acquaintances across economic and social differences. It gives deposits to the trust bank, which is so important to ensure a good community. The government is doing with the trust bank as with the oil fund: they're closing the account. Slowly, but I'm sure we'll see that the differences and the inequalities are increasing. The government's concern for this development seems to be quite proportional to the commitment they show in this debate – very small. For this government has other goals. Differences aren't that important. If they get too big, we're going to have to put in remedial measures, just like before. If you get poor enough, you can have a few needs test. Those with large assets receive more, while the unemployed are deprived of redundancy benefits and have to go on social welfare. Women get reduced freedom. They increase child care expenditure for everyone, which means little to those with the greatest wealth, but which means large extra costs for those with medium and lower income. We have child protection screaming for people, for employees, and child protection measures have a biased distribution, depending on their economic and social status. The government does not take responsibility for this development or lack of resources, and this increases the inequalities among children in the most vulnerable situations in Norway. In these years, inequalities have increased, and differences have increased. It's a wild policy of this government. The representative of Nordby Lunde said that fiscal policy is important. Yes, tax policy is important. Every year, the Labour Party has had an alternative budget that has been distributed differently, so it is not useful to stand here and say that it is important to distribute when the distribution is wrong. It only goes in one direction: those that have more, get more. It's about redistributing. This is why the Labour Party has put forward 83 proposals that contribute to a different distribution of our common budget than that proposed by this government: school food and school fruit, low-threshold facilities for children and young people, more BUA schemes and not least more child-restraint workers for the most struggling children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1693	We are now discussing a big message that the government really would not have, which has shown that government's policy is increasing the differences, and then, of course, the government parties systematically vote against all the proposals in the vote to document how the policy works. This government and the majority have done it all the way. We have suggested looking at the effects of the social cuts. The government doesn't want to know. We are promoting proposals to look at the impact of providing large, huge, tax havens to Norway's richest, strongest and most wealthy people. The government won't know about it. We will probably have to re-submit these proposals in order to obtain evidence, because it is very clear that the government will not document how policy works. I've heard more representatives stay up here today and talk about the integration promise. I've seen that a little bit more, to be completely honest. SV has put forward proposals on what all research says: that people should get to work, whether they go to Nav, or you go to the introduction system, you have to close the gap between what people can and what they need. Therefore, the SV has proposed that those who have fallen out of work and those who have come to Norway and have no competence or no knowledge of Norwegian working life should be able to complete their skills through these schemes. That's the proper line of work. The line that the government has is the poverty line: if you don't make what we've decided, we'll take away your benefit, and you'll be without any benefit for a year, sail if you're sick and don't own the needle in the wall. It makes people sick, and people don't get a job. SV suggests that proper action should also be taken by those who go to Nav – the National Audit Office has demonstrated that we are throwing billions away on measures that do not work. The government should take this on board if you think more people are going to get to work. Because that's what works -- it's that people can complete a competence they've begun, a competence that some people in work need, and maybe at a speed that's related to your health. For everyone also says that people should work sails if they have some poor health. But then we have to make sure that the arrangements to give people the opportunity to acquire their skills are rigged so that they can complete at the same time as they have poor health. There are a lot of proposals we have promoted that the government has voted down, which are good integration policies, which are good employment policies, and which would help to bring down the differences in society. Because there is no doubt that it is better to be at work than not having a job. Nor is there any doubt that it is better to be rich and healthy than to be sick and poor. But the government doesn't want to document and see how the effects of their own policies are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1704	There are societies where systemic and systematic injustice keeps people down by legislation, miserable taxation and even worse distribution. Norway is not one of those countries. But that a lot is good, doesn't mean that everyone's fine. Nevertheless, we have to be aware of the difference between inequality that arises through personal choices and inequality that arises if we tax, distribute, or regulate errors. The latter is a political responsibility. We have that responsibility, and we take that responsibility. But a society without inequality is a unified society where we ourselves are not allowed to choose our lives, or a society where no one anymore takes the consequences of their own choice. The 10 pst. The richest in Norway now pays about 40 pst. of all personal taxes in Norway, more than under the previous government. Those with the widest shoulders carry the heaviest weight. I remember that when the red-greens promised to eliminate poverty, the result after eight years was 15 000 more poor children, even with inheritance taxes, higher corporate taxes, higher property taxes, higher personal taxes and an oil price up to $120. Clearly, there is not necessarily a link between increased taxes and increased welfare. But there is also not necessarily a contradiction between tax relief and well-being. Under this government, the overall level of taxation and taxation has fallen, and despite the fact that the oil price of the 29 dollar barrel in the last period and 50 000 jobs disappeared, we now have less unemployment than in ten years, fewer temporary employees than under the Workers' Party in government, and employment on the way up. We use this rise to include more in the working life. Work is and will always be the main factor in poverty reduction. Therefore, the government has started a inclusion process to lift more people up and in. The government has had to do a lot to close the holes in the system that the previous government left behind. The new agreement on inclusive working life now includes the whole of working life. We measure after efforts against sectors and sectors that have the potential to reduce sick leave and non-response. We have escalated wage subsidies for disabled workers, increased individual job support for those who are struggling with mental illness, created several long-term organized jobs and introduced social assistance requirements for young people, so that they get into work, activity or education. We make demands, but we also make demands. This comes at the top of early school interventions and the introduction of a threshold of absenteeism to prevent young people from falling outside – which was opposed to SV – reducing the age limit of the qualification programme, introducing skills-enhancing measures at the workplace and opportunities for professional letters at work. And we are in the process of reforming the introduction programme to ensure that new people in Norway get into society and get into work, thereby reducing the number of families and children with persistent low incomes. The ones that have the least, get the most. No, we're not going to take small differences and high trust for given. That's why we need to change to preserve the welfare state, so that it's designed to be a lot for those who need it the most. That's what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1719	This matter and this debate will be about the differences in Norwegian society and how we can contribute to reducing differences through policy decisions. If we're going to reduce the differences in Norwegian society, one necessarily has to reduce the differences between those who have the most and those who have the least. Then those who have the most, and who have good back to carry, must contribute something more to the community than they do today, and then we must help to facilitate those who have the demanding. When you hear representatives from the government parties talk about lifting at the bottom, it sounds like they've made a huge effort to lift them up in the society that's weak. For very many in the Norwegian community who have experienced more hardships, I think it would be very provocative if they heard the contributions of the government parties to this matter, for example all the pensioners who have had less to live for than they had before, as a result of a number of costs they have, among other things. electricity costs, have gone into the weather – at the top they have thus received record high electricity charges. There are many sick people who have had fewer lives to live for, both through the removal or reduction of different support schemes and through, among other things, tightening up. redundancy pay. There are many who are in full-time work who have less to live for, because there is pressure on pay and working conditions, through that approx. 30 pst. of those in paid employment, have had a decline in real wages under this government. Then, through political decisions, through the work we do in the United Kingdom, one must have elected labour market governance, regulate labour immigration and contribute to raising and reducing differences. It's the same way when you're talking about the tax system. Each time, the answer from the Minister of Finance and from the representatives of the Government Parties is what one in total has reduced taxes and taxes. When we talk about distribution, of course, one has to ask: Who has received the great tax relief? Well, they are the ones who have the most from before, while ordinary people have received record high fees and record high toll costs, as well as tightening up important schemes for, among other things. commuters and other workers. It means something about how to organise policies and how to organise access to public welfare services. Very many people have received a welfare offer that is worse and worse off. There are – too many – fewer services near people. Therefore, there is a need for a change in policy that facilitates smaller differences in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1739	The debate today shows a very clear difference between the Progress Party and the Red-Green parties. From the Workers' Party, we have almost just been told that they are merely quoting to come back to power to increase taxes and taxes and have even more public governance of people's income. The Workers' Party has taken on board the fact that the 'rich' is a shell word – the rich, the bad people who have succeeded in believing an idea, which has created jobs in their local environment, so rich that they waste money, which they roam to local sports clubs, to corps or to build community houses. I'm sorry that someone's succeeding, this is not something the Workers' Party should have done. I thought politicians should concentrate on doing what they can to enable us all to have the same opportunity to succeed, to use the abilities we have, to use our thoughts, our ideas, our visions, our energy and our time to succeed – and also to achieve wealth, completely independent of personal background. Envy and high taxes on the rich are not the key to success for others. In the debate, the Labour Party has not been concerned that more people will be happy and have a good life. They have used their energy to establish that a society of rich people is a bad society and just a sign of great inequality. Happiness may not be possible for money, but economic freedom is, in any case, the result of one's doing something right, that one's been successful. If no one could make money to succeed, then who would spend their time starting new ideas, developing new ideas, establishing more private jobs? The party of progress opposes the State's ownership of everything. We want ordinary people to be able to realize their dreams, and are not concerned with punishing people because they have succeeded. Our goal is for even more people to succeed. Yeah, we're involved in equalizing differences. Yeah, the rich have to pay, too. But in any case, the goal must be to make sure that even more people get a good life, regardless of someone's having something more. Then we are to be very proud that Norway is and – at least with the Progress Party in government – is a country where everyone should be able to achieve their dream and where everyone should have the same opportunity to become rich. In the debate, the Central Party has called for the government to govern the labour market, for industry to be required to have quotas by people from different walks of life with different challenges. Yes, the representative Lundt owns the right that the Senterpartiet has become a guarantor for the Anderledesland, but it is a guarantee that I hope our residents and our companies will not be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1754	Over the last few weeks, we've been serving a large dose of crocodile tears from this government. After six years of unsocial politics, where they have deliberately rewarded their supporters at the top and punished those sitting at the bottom of the table, they are concerned that the tolls are becoming unsocial. After they spent 25 billion. kr on tax bills to those who are already sitting well in it, while the rest have become hung behind and less to live for, they take on the worried mine and talk about how bad it is with all the new toll stations. It's not nice for people to protest. If the government had listened to SV, we could get a tax system that gave tax relief to them with NOK 600 000 or less in income. We could invest more in school, in health, in SFO and in kindergarten. But the elite in the government doesn't want that. For the money, they have spent on the richest – the richest – who have received more than 300,000 kroner each in tax credits from this government. When this happens, and when the inequalities increase, we can understand that there are many who are protesting today. And that's when the government parties come with their crocodile tears. For what do they do? Yes, one day they say they want to tear down the bombings, and the next day they vote to create new ones. Only today the Progress Party and the rest of the government parties are going in for eight new toll stations in Trondelag and also more in Telemark. Only today the Progress Party and the government parties are providing to increase the toll by over 10 billion. kr to finance giant motorways in Telemark and in Trøndelag. Instead, they could have followed the SV and asked for a severe downscaling of these developments. It would have saved the climate for emissions, it would have saved nature for intervention, and it would have saved people for excessive costs. The party of progress leads people beyond the light when they come across the toll stations with their crocodile tears. The truth is, they've voted for every single meter of new highway and every single new toll station in the last few years. If they don't want to tell the truth about their profoundly unfair policy, they'll at least stop serving us other crocodile tears and leading people behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1765	The debate we have had today shows that the government parties – at least the Right and the Advance Party – do not take into account what this debate is really about, because it is not about poverty, it is about the allocation of economic power, about equality, and about the ability to give all equal opportunities, as it says in the title of the communication. We have heard representatives from the government parties being quite self-sufficient. We are best at inequality in Europe, said the representative of Asheim. And the representative Bjørnstad from the Progress Party went even a little further: we're the best in the world at inequality. Where do they take it from? Have they read their own message? It actually says something completely different. We were best in the world when it came to inequality measured by income in 2012. In 2015 we had dropped to second place, and now we're in seventh place – and the government hasn't bothered to measure how the wealth inequality is. I don't know what word I'm going to use, which is parliamentary, but it gets quite strange, I think, to hear the representative Nordby Lunde say that it's not so bad, because the richest people pay as much in taxes now as they did under the red-green government. But you skip, the same people have increased their wealth by 14 pst. If you don't also pay taxes, you'd have no choice. There are few measures in this Communication that build on what are now the challenges we have tried to describe. There are many aspects of numbers and descriptions, but very few measures pointing to the future. For the Workers' Party, it is important to take action. Over the last year, we have proposed many measures that would have reduced inequalities between people in Norway, but the proposals have only remained proposals. Now there are forces that pull in the direction of even greater inequality. It must meet with politics. Unfortunately, the government's policy is speeding up towards greater inequality. That should have been even more the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1776	I fully agree with Mr Aasrud that we must meet the challenges we face, with policy. That's exactly what this government is doing, while we have an opposition that meets them with rhetoric. When you hear the debate, you almost get the impression that Norway was a fantastic country in 2012 — and in 2013 also, until the elections — and that everything is now turned upside down. I think it is important that we try to make a reality-oriented debate, because I think it is quite distant from many of those who sit and follow it. But I particularly noticed that the representative Kari Henriksen, and so far several others before her from the Workers' Party, have criticised the government in terms of redundancy payments. I think it illustrates some of the challenges you're actually facing, because we're actually addressing a challenge in a way that we think will help more people out of work. I want to read a quote: "We have no time to lose. There is no reason for young people to go on redundancy pay for four years.’ [[AAP]] That quote is from the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, from when she herself, on behalf of the Programme Committee of the Workers' Party, proposed to change the redundancy period from four years to two years. This government chose to go from four years to three years. We fully agree with the representative Tajik and the Workers' Party from that time on that it makes sense to clarify people as quickly as possible, so that those who do not have the ability to work can have the predictability and security of transitioning to disability – while all those who actually have the skills to work should receive the help, support and assistance they need as quickly as possible in order to get into working life. I will continue on what I said instead: this is about what kind of work life it is we have. This government has received a lot of criticism that we have made it a little easier to become a temporary employee. Now we see the result. More than half of those temporarily employed end in permanent employment within a year. For this government has also stated that fixed employment is and should be the general rule – we have also tightened it up. But we've said that for some people it might be better that you get one foot in the world of work than not having one foot in the world of work at all. And we see that the government's policy in that field actually works. We see that people who were not able to test themselves in the workplace in the past now have the opportunity to show up, and show that despite the fact that you may have some reduced health, you still have a working capacity, and you can become good workers anyway. But then, as politicians, we must not create a rigid A4 system, or a work environment law adapted to the 1970s.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1792	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1797	The representative, Engeli Johansen, tried to chat with the Central Party's wish for popular governance of the Norwegian labour market, which also addresses the regulation of labour migration. What Lundteigen specifically pointed out was Switzerland, a country that I thought politically was not so far away from the Progress Party. There are two specific conditions. One is that the Swiss company that wants to use foreign labour must report from eight days in advance and guarantee that it gives them Swiss pay and working conditions. The second condition is that a non-resident company to carry out a mission in Switzerland must pay up a guarantee sum that a person will be refunded afterwards if he has complied with Swiss labour law. For serious companies this is not a problem to implement at all, but it will clear away unprofessional actors and contribute to a more orderly working life and better conditions. Does the President allow me to give a brief explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1804	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1809	We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 14 if proposal No 17, which we're in, falls. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 13, although we think it would be better to get a statement like that in Sweden at another time. We shall vote in favour of the motions for resolutions. 11-16.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1814	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1819	What we're now discussing is what we're doing in the future when we see that the differences are increasing. The government systematically cuts holes in the safety net of the most disadvantaged and sewing silk cushions under the arms of the very freshest and richest. That's the truth. I hear some of the representatives of the Right go up to the pulpit and talk about maritime poverty. Yes, there are many who do stupid things in their lives, and some get dizzy hard. Someone's going completely unharmed by it. Someone even makes money on it and comes from it without a scratch in the paint, because it's unfair. Some of the things that are skewestly distributed, and that are most important when we're going to see how things are going with us in life, is health. Very little of that we can do something for seagoing, and it's completely systematicly divided between those who have a lot, and those who have little. Therefore, SV wants to reduce differences in order to make it possible, even for people with poor health, to cope better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1826	What I think is good about this debate is that at least it seems that most people agree that it is good to live in a society with little differences, that it is an objective to reduce differences, and that it is a goal to have great trust between people. But such debates in the United Kingdom are often a little nearsighted. We're talking about measures here and now, we're talking about next year's budget, we're talking about decisions we can make that have a time horizon of a year or so, instead of seeing what happens in the long term. One thing is to disagree on whether tax policy is currently redistributing or creating greater differences, whether the cuts in zero pay for dependants or other schemes actually affect those who have the least, but what do we do to ensure that the small differences in Norway can continue over the years? What do we do with the young people on the outside of the SFO, who might prefer to be there and have language training, homework and social training? What do we do with the 15 000 young people who still, every year, do not complete secondary education — one in four? We know that if your parents have long higher education, you're almost guaranteed to complete high school, but if your parents only have primary school, it's 40 pst. completing secondary school. I sometimes use to ask teachers, had you sent your kids to a school where they had 40 pst. a chance to implement? I have not yet met a teacher who had done so. I would like to meet a big-time representative who would do that. What do we do with the 30,000 young people under the age of 25 who are still unemployed? We listen to the Minister of Finance that everything is happy and old in Norway. For the 30,000 young people, it's not. What do we do with all those who have a loose relationship with the world of work – without regular employment, without regular working hours – and thus can neither get housing loans nor a good family economy? What do we do with the 50 pst increase in young people in Norway during this government? There are 5,000 more people under the age of 30 who are unemployed. It's calculated that the present value or the loss of it, compared to if the 5,000 had gotten into an active life, is 60 billion. kr. That means that what we had invested was less than 60 billion. kr, which helped these young people to get into work instead of becoming pregnant, is a profitable investment. The four bourgeois parties have no policy that takes it into consideration. This also applies to the housing market, where inheritance and parents are absolutely crucial if you can establish and hold with the equity that was required by Siv Jensen to remove when she became Minister of Finance. The differences are going to increase with the next generation, and the government we have has no answer to how we're going to prevent the future generation from experiencing a greater difference Norway than what we've been lucky about, with the small differences that we've experienced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1838	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1843	Perhaps the most important debate in Stortinget this spring is coming to an end. It's not important because the government with this message has given us a basis to fight differences, rather the opposite, but because we have seriously seen the differences in Norwegian policy as well. Where the right party only wants to talk about poverty and immigration, the Labour Party understands that we also need to talk about the richest at the top, the ones who drew away. Where the right-wing party wants to talk more about doing better in Norway than in other countries, and even misinforming about how we relate to statistics, the Labour Party takes seriously that the differences are increasing, both in income and wealth. And where the right-wing party is totally opposed and powerless, the Labour Party has put forward 83 proposals to reduce the differences between people. In addition, the right-hand side systematically disagrees with the suggestions in the settings and shows that they have not taken into account that the differences increase, that there is a problem, and that the policy can help reverse the changes. It's a shame, but it's not surprising, and it's probably a signal to the voters that those who want stronger communities and smaller differences can't trust right-wing government, but they have to turn towards a clear red-green option.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1850	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1864	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party and Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Centre Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Left, Christian People's Party, Green Party and Red Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1877	I would like to thank the Minister of Development for a broad presentation with a particular focus on climate and poverty reduction, and the link between them. It's great that we get these perspectives into the discussion as the Biggest's allocations for development aid are growing, year by year. This discussion was rather absent during the previous ageing period. Now we've got a decision in Stortinget that we're going to give 1 pst. by GNI in development assistance, and it is important which priorities we make, what requirements we set, and whether aid is related to Norwegian foreign policy. I am therefore pleased that we have got our own Minister of Development. There must be a clear link between our policy on human rights, distribution, equality and the environment and what we contribute to our development policy. Help is not neutral. It has a purpose: a desire for political development. The Minister for Development was particularly concerned with combating poverty, and it has some connection with the discussion that took place earlier in the Chamber today. In the fight against poverty, the seventh and last thing is about what kind of policy is being pursued in the countries with which we cooperate and provide development aid. Norwegian development aid cannot compensate for some countries choosing an unfair distribution where the rich run away with the money. Because we can't fund development aid if the rest of the country's policies are moving towards increasing differences. Therefore, we should have the goal for our partner countries that they should have progress in terms of economic distribution. The so-called Gini coefficient is one way to measure this, but we also have to look at other measuring instruments. Combating poverty depends on the country’s own ability to pursue an active policy of distribution. Nor is it beneficial for large donors to run the country’s health system or educational system over time. In that case, the country in each country loses control of its own development. Help can be important enough, but at the same time it can help to make the government of the country weaker in each country, making it more vulnerable. It is not the task of Norwegian development aid to compensate for the lack of distribution in each country. That is why we need to make demands for distribution, for common schools and health care for everyone and for a tax system in which everyone contributes. The Minister for Development spoke about Gavi. The initiative is based on the responsibility of the recipient nation when they reach a certain economic level. This is a principle that we should perhaps introduce for more programmes. In parallel with economic growth, several development projects have to be taken over by national authorities. For each development project, we should perhaps have our own exit strategy, where the authorities take responsibility for it. Governments also stressed that half the world’s population does not have access to basic health services, which means that even simple diseases become dangerous and cause much unnecessary suffering. There are just programs to counteract this effect, the Americans are now cutting in as a result of the global gag rule. So if a health organisation cooperates with someone who gives access to safe abortions, the entire health programme will be cut, even if it is about HIV-infected, tuberculosis or malaria. That is why I was quite surprised that the Development Minister, who, after his first Question Time, did not condemn this practice, chose not to mention ‘the global gag rule’ in his statement on Norway’s position. In other countries, active development ministers address the issue. As far as I know, the work in this country is the responsibility of the Minister for Gender Equality. However, as little as family policy can be distinguished from gender equality policy, the Council of State may delegate to the Minister for Gender Equality or to the Foreign Minister Norway’s attitude to the ‘global gag rule’ and abortion. I agree with the Minister of Development's words that reproductive rights are deeply concerned with human vision and human dignity. Who has the right to reject a woman in distress — subjected to sexualized violence — in a refugee camp? What kind of human vision lies behind if she is to be forced to bring forth a child she does not want? In recent times, we have seen more and more attacks on women's right to good health and access to knowledge of their own bodies. An alliance of both Catholic and Muslim countries has received increased support from the United States. In the U.S. aid work, the rule is based on a binding commitment from recipient organisations to refrain from providing advice on abortion issues. In the past, this policy has only affected organisations engaged in information and fighting for women’s right to control their own bodies. Now President Donald Trump has extended the decision and thus triggered a massive cut of 6 billion. dollars in US aid to various health organizations. One of the organizations that has been jammed on the basis of American attitudes is the International Planned Parenthood Federation, which alone has lost 20 pst. of its resources because of the decision. These funds affect their efforts to ensure prevention in developing countries, to prevent unsafe abortions, to treat pregnant women living with HIV, and to operate several mobile health centres. If we just look at the cut they've been through, that money could prevent 20,000 children from dying in childbirth, they could prevent 4.8 million unwanted pregnancies, they could secure the treatment of 275,000 pregnant women living with HIV, they could secure the distribution of 70 million condoms or 750,000 HIV tests or over half a million treatments for sexually transmitted diseases. It says something about the extent of this cut. Last week we received a visit from the Secretary-General of the UN Population Fund, Natalia Kanem, who told us about the consequences of the cut in American aid. She told about debilitated health centres, basic health services that do not extend to vulnerable areas, and a new and more disturbing state for women in the world. She has seen organisations that have no choice but to sign Trump's agreement that they should refrain from all abortion counselling in order to receive decisive aid to the world's poorest. Too many workers live below the poverty line. Modern slavery should become more important when it comes to developing a group of working poor people. The powers of the West make the mistake on several occasions to forget the people who have work today, but who nevertheless do not earn a wage that enables them to live on it. For them, working life often consists of physically heavy work without requirements on safety and protective equipment. It's almost like slave-like work. The result can be irreparable damage and a wage that does not satisfy the family. International cooperation needs to improve conditions and ensure continued growth and a decent working life for all. The best instrument is the UN Labour Organisation ILO, which this year is 100 years old. The ILO was formed because it was a fundamental idea that social justice was necessary to create peace. Norway has ratified 110 ILO conventions and three protocols. But there are still some conventions that we haven't ratified. One of them is the Housekeeper Convention, from 2011. On March 8th, I got the opportunity to talk to an impressive woman. Her name is Myrtle Witbooi and she is president of the National Association of Housekeepers in South Africa and of the International Organisation of Housekeepers. She was a domestic servant under the apartheid regime and has now been trusted by all the domestics of the world. She is deeply concerned with the fundamental values of the ILO. I believe that Norway must help to make this convention more effective, because it is the only legislation that protects this group of workers in very many countries. Norway has to continue to take a leading position in recognising the working poor group. Throughout history, we have raised Norway's population out of poverty and into a working life to ensure full life, decent working conditions and the right to support our own family. This should also be Norway’s global vision. Norway has a very important role to play in relation to the Palestinian refugees. The UN organisation that contributes, inter alia: health care and schools for Palestinians, UNRWA, need to be strengthened, and we need to use our international leadership role to influence other donors, such as China and Middle East countries, to increase their contributions. The situation is very serious now. If the Palestinian authorities collapse, we're no longer on the way to a two-state solution. Then there is one state in which Israel must take responsibility for all the inhabitants of the land. The OECD and DAC indicate that one of the countries receiving the most assistance from Norway is Palestine. Before the Christian People's Party entered the government, occasionally resulted in negotiations between the Solberg government and the Christian People's Party here on the house in that UNRWA budgets were cut. I hope that the Minister for Development understands the importance of UNRWA, and that these budgets need to increase in parallel with the collapse of the United States. There is a greater need than ever to strengthen the multilateral system. The Ebola crisis showed that we did not have an international system that was ready to deal with the crisis. Such crises may come again. One of the recommendations of the Development Assistance Committee is that we use our influence as a donor in the various UN organisations to promote one UN working together to promote a well-functioning multilateral system. It would have been interesting if the Development Minister could say something about what he thinks about the OECD and the DAC recommendations, and how he intends to follow them up. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1917	There is little disagreement in this room that development policy should contribute to a peaceful and fairer world, and without extreme poverty. On the other hand, there may be a greater basis for disagreement — naturally enough. The UN's sustainability targets have been a stronger framework condition for Norwegian development policy in recent years, in addition to the traditional commitments that Norway has already undertaken to fulfil. At the same time, we see that the boundaries of foreign and development policy are more today than before. A systematic effort to provide more people in the world with access to education, health care and jobs, and to combat climate change is in our interest as well as for those targeted by the relief measures in the first place. The government is now presenting an annual report of agreement in Prop. 1 S to Stortinget, which analyses the coherence of Norwegian policies for development and the impact of the various policy areas on world development. And there's also a relatively new instrument to see if there's really any relationship between what we're doing and what we hope is going to be the effect. The Foreign Affairs Committee of the European Parliament, as was also the case in the previous speaker, had a meeting today with the management of the OECD DAC, which is responsible for the Development Assistance Committee. They have carried out a so-called peer review, or in Norwegian an external peer review, of our u-help, measured against an international benchmark. Norway is coming out very well — that is the main note of this report — not only measured by what Norway provides, but also by what we achieve. Norway is in the tenth place in absolute terms in terms of appropriations, and among the three largest donors in terms of transfers as a share of national income, the so-called GNI. However, beyond money use, the ability to make development policy work in the same direction as the sustainability objectives are at least as important, and also the ability to provide in a way that contributes to resource mobilisation in the recipient countries. In this context, I would also like to express my support for the previous speaker, Mr Huitfeldt, who said that we cannot transfer funds to countries that can do better and that are replaced by a lack of will for social cohesion in each country. It's part of keeping separate and keeping track of it. DAC says that Norwegian development policy is largely very successful. But that does not mean that it is not possible to reinforce the effect of what is granted for development purposes. The peer review also contains concrete recommendations on how to do so. I am sure that these recordings will be carefully studied by the Minister for Development and his ministry, and I also believe that the Minister for Development's presentation has already touched on some of these issues in a good and interesting way. Norway receives recognition for technical assistance and cooperation at project and programme level, e.g. ‘Oil for Development’ and ‘Tax for Development’. It has also been noted that we have developed a good and leading system for evaluating the measures. However, a stronger institutional follow-up to the convergence processes, including more systematic feedback, is called for. Similarly, a defined responsibility for strategic overview and co-ordinated basis for decision-making is desirable, so as to ensure that projects and programmes always support under the overall policy objective set by Norway for development cooperation. The last thing I want to highlight here is that we are recommended to focus on further performance-oriented management, among other things. with clearer and thus more easily verifiable target formulations at portfolio level, and as part of this, collect and compile data on the results. However, as before, there will be a need to focus attention on the danger that institutional relationships can lead to overlaps and inefficiency. It is still important to continue work to concentrate and simplify assistance and to make it more targeted. A stronger concentration has already been achieved in fewer partner countries and in fewer programmes. Norwegian assistance shall result in the receiver becoming self-driving over time, a so-called ‘exit strategy’, as it is now called. In order to achieve this, a viable, profitable private and local business is not excluded. In a modern society, it means knowledge of capital management, that means value conservation management of real resources, that means control of and with illegal cash flows, and that means a functioning tax system. It is timely when the Minister of Development explicitly refers to the Addis Tax Initiative in this context. In our opinion, the Minister of Development has good reason to be satisfied with the first statement of development he has made for the Storting in this Chamber. We can also see broad support for the government platform. It's a force for all those who work daily to lead the visions out into life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1949	Thank you to the Minister for Development for the presentation. I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear that development is the responsibility of national authorities. It is the locals who own and manage development, and they themselves have to take responsibility for developing social infrastructure and basic services such as health care and education. It is therefore right that the government should aim to support its own policies and institutions. In line with this, it is now working on its own strategies for each partner country to ensure that our contribution is adapted to the country’s own plans and developments. The impact of our assistance is measured by the capacity of the beneficiary countries to develop themselves. The beneficiaries, who are now able to cope on their own, can be defined as a success. Unfortunately, there are still too few of these. But it is a point of light that we see several developing countries with clear goals of being able to cope without assistance. We must support these countries. Successful individual countries can become catalysts for an entire region. 1 pst. of GNI is a lot of money, as the Council of State also pointed out in its statement. The Progress Party would like to have a debate on the level of Norwegian aid and not just the device. At the same time, we are realistic and realise that, at present, it is not politically possible to reduce the level of Norwegian aid. In such a situation, it is important for us to ensure that the funds are used as efficiently as possible, and that we learn from the mistakes that have been made in the past. The assistance must be result-oriented and non-intentional. As mentioned earlier here today, by both previous speakers, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence met with the OECD Development Committee today. Norway then had a lot to boast about — almost just lack of as much money as we use — but there was also some open criticism and some criticism that should be addressed via the signals given. Among other things, it was said that Norway is involved in many projects, but few programmes — in other words, that the projects are not part of a larger programme, which is important for development. Then it was also said that we have a little bit of a willingness to quit programs or projects that don't work. I guess it's because you fall in love with the projects, because the people who work with the projects are going to be very happy with the projects they're working with. The last thing that's important is that you say you have to be result oriented, but then it's important that you have a goal, because if you don't have a goal, you can't measure the result either. It must not be a moving goal; it must be a clearly set target before launching programmes. This government has strengthened its focus on results, among others: by creating a web portal where you can go in and check concretely what the results of different projects are. It is important to get legitimacy in the population. The role of private business in development policy is very important. The Council of State pointed out that Norway’s total aid to Bangladesh during the 10-year period 2009–2018 was 799 million. kr. In the same period, telecommunications companies in Bangladesh, which have Telenor as a majority shareholder, have paid more than 60 billion dollars. kr in tax to the bangladsh state. Values created by private companies provide income to the country, which in turn forms the basis for the development of welfare services. I couldn't stop mentioning it, because we had just, a few minutes ago, a debate in the hall on balancing inequalities. It is obvious that what contributes tax revenue to Bangladesh here is precisely contributing to development, but also to equalising inequalities – this time in Bangladesh. Private business is absolutely the most important facilitator if you have ambitions to equalise inequality. Tax receipts from private business can also be discriminatory. A responsible State attracts more investment and enterprises than an irresponsible and corrupt state. Enterprises are engaged in performance and profits, but can at the same time contribute to the development of good governance. Capitalism works. In particular, private business will play a key role in Africa’s biggest challenge, the rapid population growth. Large youth coal will enter the African labour market. 20 million new jobs are needed annually to keep track of population growth. Increased productivity creates increased prosperity. Europe’s industrialisation and development of profit-driven private companies should also be a model for Africa. Much of the driving force behind migration towards Europe is precisely the desire for a better life and a better future. The possibility of work and democratic development in which they live will help fewer young people embark on a dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. The government has done a lot to turn the aid in a more entrepreneurial direction. Efforts to create jobs have increased. Norway shall continue to work towards a safer and more attractive investment in developing countries for both local and international actors. Norway, in cooperation with local authorities, shall also contribute to the development of better and more predictable framework conditions for the private sector. Not least, Norad plays an important role here. I had a meeting with the new leader in Norad today. He briefed me on what plans Norad has, and how the system works, and there's no doubt that private business and building jobs are the future. Aid in itself will, of course, save lives, but if you look ahead in time, you have to have business in place again. Uncontrolled migration, as we have seen in recent years, is unsustainable, both for migrants themselves, for Europe and not least for poor countries that lose young labour. We must put in place a system in which those who do not need protection are sent back quickly. It will also have a preventative effect. This is related – it is not a separate debate on migration flows to Europe, but it is also a debate on development and how African countries can take care of their own populations. This is related. It does not help to take 10,000, 20,000, 30,000, 100,000, 1 million, 5 million to Europe unless Africa itself is able to take care of its own people in the long term. That's the only way this can work. The Government Platform states that the Government will ensure more return agreements and work for greater acceptance of the principle that all countries are obliged to receive their own citizens. Norway has established close cooperation with many countries through a long-term aid exposure. It is natural to use this opportunity also to establish good return agreements. I would like to stress that the Progress Party is not opposed to assistance. We are not against helping other people, but we are against the aid that creates addiction and does not create development. It is worrying, for example, that a country like Ethiopia, which in the 1980s had 38 million people, today has 105 million people, and that only in Somalia, part of Somalia, today there are 30 million people, where 15 million simply have not fully met the basic needs. It can't go on like that. It doesn't help to make it 35 or 40 million in Somaliland, it's better that they themselves are able to take care of their own country and their own development, further development, jobs and what makes business work. Now I have two minutes left, but I'm not going to bother you anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e1983	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for a broad and good deal. It is important that we address the assistance to those who need it the most. The Central Party believes that democratic nation states that are willing to take care of the inhabitants are a surefire for stability. Helping countries to help themselves must be the basic idea of Norwegian development policy. It is good that the government sees the possibility of more directing assistance through the Party's regime. By 2030, the world must have achieved its 17 ambitious conservation goals. For several years, Norwegian organisations have asked the government to develop an action plan to ensure that we reach the targets, both outdoors and at home. Also the biggest plural bath in Innst. 440 S for 2016–2017 The government to submit to the Stortinget a plan for how Norway will implement the sustainability targets, national and international. In comparison, both Sweden, Finland and Denmark have national action plans in place. When asked about this, the government would like to say that the follow-up to the sustainability targets in Norway is integrated into the government's regular political work and not as a private project with a private secretariat. But it does not answer the question of why Norway does not need an action plan. On the contrary, this would mean that the trough for a comprehensive plan across departments and sectors is even greater. As a former government council for eight years, I know that cooperation across the ministry is not always so easy to implement in practice. For each of the 17 resource targets, the Ministry is responsible for monitoring, and the reporting is done through the budget documents. Often a pre-existing policy and action is mentioned, now categorized under a specific resource target. Concrete measures are rarely linked to intermediate targets and so to say never to indicators, and few concrete figures have been used. The lack of an action plan combined with highly overarching reporting in the budget papers makes it difficult for both population growth and civil society to hold the government responsible for the progress towards the sustainability targets, which are, of course, the basis of all Norwegian development policies. Together with Germany's Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel and Ghana's President Nana Akufo-Addo, Erna Solberg has taken the lead in achieving a global plan of action on conservation objectives No. 3 on good health for all. According to Solberg, it is an important point with the plan to be able to establish the status of where we are on the right track, and where we need to intensify our efforts. Some of the biggest gaps between ambitions and reality are linked to the intermediate targets that require cross-sectoral action, at the Grand Challenges Conference in Berlin in 2018, and once again concluded that everything is related. It's high time that Solberg used the same energy to drive a stronger systematic in Norway's efforts to reach the yield target. Unlike many other development areas, the arrows point to the wrong path when it comes to carrying force target No. 2, about eradicating things by 2030. A total of 20 million more people go to bed today than 10 years ago, and 150 million children in the world are never fully awakened due to under- and/or misnutrition. When the government comes in a short time with its action plan on sustainable food systems, it is important that the plan be relevant and targeted. One must maintain the focus on peasants and, in addition, focus on youth. The plan should contain a strong bilateral component, and it must not only create many but also decent jobs. About 54 pst. of the working population in Africa depends on agriculture as a basis of life, income and work. About 1.5 billion people have small - scale agriculture as a living. The action plan must ensure employment, especially for the large youth school to be placed on the labour market in the African countries. It is a paradox that self - saving agriculture is often regarded as unproductive work, despite approaching 80 pst. by sub-Saharan agriculture may be referred to as self-storage agriculture. A large part of job creation can be achieved by scaling up self-rescue farming by providing several small farmers with access to favourable loans, insurance schemes and, not least, training. Self-rescue farmers and young small users must be seen as self-employed and efforts must be made to give them the right to land, financial support and access to markets. The forthcoming plan will have a wide impact field, according to what has come out in advance. He will cover production, the market, food chains and nutrition, and policies and governance. The centre party believes that one of Norway's most important contributions is knowledge of the Norwegian cooperative model. Good food systems and strong national agriculture require an active and well-functioning country. In that perspective, Norway should increase bilateral support in favour of the increasing part of the assistance to be channelled through large international funds. The focus of the business effort must be on the decentness of the work being created – that is fair income, dignity of work conditions, a safe and secure working day, social well-being, labour rights, the right not to be exploited and a resilient basis of life to be provided for future generations. Humans and resource management must be at the centre of development. The World Bank has clarified that small-scale farming is the grip that will have the most impact on poverty reduction. Each state must be able to guarantee its people basic security and preparedness. Food, water and safety are fundamental provisions for stability and a fundamental commitment to the sustainable effect of our efforts on knowledge and health. The world has been plagued by many conflicts, and the long-standing conflicts often have in common that they go into developing countries. Together with the climate crisis, which, unfortunately, most people in developing countries also suffer the most, this is the most fundamental cause of poverty and food shortages. Unfortunately, today’s government is far more important in channelling development funds through multilateral funds rather than bilateral aid. In bilateral assistance, funds are more likely to be deployed where they are most effective, and there is much greater transparency and openness than in global funds. Do we have enough control over how the money is spent today, and the benefits of it? The National Audit Office recently produced a report that criticises the priority given to global funds. The central party pointed the same way in connection with the state budget for 2019. It is also important to get on the table the amount of transaction costs. The use of funds is an easy way to reduce annual work in the state, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't care what the money goes to the farmer. And how many annual works are replaced by several red tapestries of work for example in London City or other financial environment? It's also an important question to get an answer to. That being said, the Central Party wants us to support multilateral cooperation through the UN. It is important, and it is also important to coordinate better than what has been done today, and it is important to move forward with the reforms that have been discussed and that have been tried for a long time, but perhaps have not yet given the intended effect. We need to ensure that funding Norway provides assistance, has effect and goes to the right objectives. We also need clear indicators, so that we can measure and sew so that we can measure the measures we have seen in development aid. Unfortunately, these indicators are not sufficiently clear in all areas of development policy. Knowing which specific sub-measures to try to achieve will give you a clearer indication of what works optimally and not. We will also be able to guide better within areas that do not function optimally at an early stage. It will be able to ensure better management of the funds provided. Norwegian assistance is under this government turning something against the focus on self-interest. It's enough to identify the Granavolden platform to connect assistance and return agreements. It is also interesting to right how a government council from the Christian People's Party will ensure that there is still the concern of the poor who govern the aid, not the cooperation with the Progress Party. The distribution given by this Chair was a very good start. There was a great deal where the Central Party has agreed with the Council of State, and we look forward to a good cooperation on development policy in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2027	I think it's important that we are very clear on the concepts when discussing development assistance. Development aid is divided into two. We're talking about humanitarian aid, which is going to be short-term and focus on saving lives. It's also going to be neutral. We're also talking about long-term development assistance. It shall change policy and be absolutely non-neutral. What the speakers before me here have been talking about, has essentially been about the last. SV is concerned that the government should focus on the causes of poverty and that we should do something about the causes. Then we have to ask ourselves some basic questions: are people poor in poor countries because there is too little resources there, so that our job is to provide services there? Or is poverty due to a lack of distribution, delinquency, corruption, repression and human rights violations? Essentially, I think that's the last thing. I was in many so-called poor countries in my past life. What struck me was that of the political and economic elite – call it – humiliating wealth in contrast to the extremely poor lives of people. I can mention Nigeria, Angola and Cambodia – those who have not been there will hardly believe what it looks like. There are stifled heads of state in such countries, who are very happy with development aid, because they do not have to contribute themselves. When many are poor in these countries, it is because someone else wants it to be that way. So it's a wild policy of oppression and bias. So the development aid that we're going to drive and control from this space is going to be about changing the basic conditions that are the cause of this. Then we have to dry to discuss politics around this. In its statement last week, the Council of State said that the country's own authorities should take responsibility for themselves. That's what you add up to. This is a little bit unclear to me. The national authorities have – at least formally – responsibilities. It is not that they cannot take responsibility, because they have this responsibility, but they do not. Most heads of state in the poorest countries of the world are more concerned with enriching themselves than with taking responsibility for their own poor. Maybe that's the most important problem. So effective assistance is for Norway to strengthen policy mechanisms in these countries to change precisely this. We need to channel assistance to ensure better democracy, less corruption, accountability for human rights and that kind of case. We need to discuss whether there should be a link between Norwegian foreign policy and Norwegian development policy. For example, we have to. We have no choice but to ask ourselves about the Norwegian arms export, for example. the parties to the war in Yemen contribute to the deterioration of the humanitarian suffering in that country. Norway continues to export arms to some of these countries — Jordan, Egypt and Kuwait — although we have cut exports to some other countries. If the government believes that there should be a coherent policy for development in the world, and will do what it will and must to prevent humanitarian crises, we must settle this type of arms export. Here, the Minister for Development has definitely a task to take care of. I fully agree with the representative Navarsete, who addressed the problem of Norwegian interests related to return agreements. The Granavolden Declaration states that the government will ‘use Norway’s position, including as an aid provider, to ensure more return agreements and to increase acceptance of the principle that all countries are obliged to accept their own citizens’. This has been used, for example: in Ethiopia. SV is not against our conditionality or conditions relating to long-term development assistance, but those conditions must be such as to require government leaders to secure fundamental rights for their own population — ensuring distribution and human rights. The conditions should not be there to safeguard our interests in Norway. There's a completely fundamental and fundamental difference. I understand that the Council of State has a rather positive agenda, but he is stuck in a government where there are very many cracking interests. It remains to be seen whether the Minister of Development and the Christian People's Party have the power to challenge that course internally in their own government. He'll get my support for much of it. I wish him luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2048	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for a very good report. It may not be so surprising that I found it, but it also seemed, among other things, to me. Secretary-General of WWF, Board Vegar Solhjell. He said it very well, on Twitter: ‘Strength and precise argumentation for the strong connection between #climate and #poverty from @dagiulstein today. Very strong policy statement.’» That seems to me to have summed up very well Ulstein's interpretation, which quite clearly puts in place the strong link between the climate challenge and our development policy. It was a red thread through the distribution that Ulstein and the government will work to increase the poverty orientation of Norwegian aid – i.e. that aid should be more targeted at those who need it the most. It's important. OECD statistics show that aid to the least developed countries in 2018 fell by 4 pst. This means that for six of the last seven years, we have experienced that aid has fallen to those countries that need it the most. It's very serious, because we know that to reach the 2030 agenda it really has to be the opposite. We must win the fight against extreme poverty. That is why it is particularly important and good that the Norwegian side goes in the opposite direction, and that means, among other things. enhanced efforts in sub-Saharan Africa. State council Ulstein also pointed out the need for marginalised groups, and he brought out poor children, poor women and not least the poor with disability. Councillor Ulstein pointed out that around 800 million people with disabilities live in developing countries. We didn't succeed in giving this opportunity to rise, nor did we, Ulstein, say, "and it's quite right. To the connection between development and climate: We are now facing a force that works against us, that threatens to destroy much of our development effort, and that will undermine our ability to achieve the resilience goals. Climate change is often referred to as ‘the great development destroyer’ — the major developer — and with good reason. I am therefore very pleased that Minister of Development Ulstein warned to increase his efforts in this field. He also showed that solid and uncertain access to food again is a growing problem globally, and that he would come back in connection with the state budget in the fall just about climate adaptation, prevention and the fight against silt. I look forward to it. I have registered that the Labour Party asked questions about the Christian People's Party is against the 'global gag rule'. It must be allowed to ask questions. It also gives me the opportunity to answer – and I would like to do that. When Trump came with the global gag rule in 2017, I made a clear statement on behalf of the party, and I want to quote what I said at the time: ‘KrF does not support Trump’s proposals, which in the worst case could mean large aid measures that will affect both the fight against HIV, prevention, the fight against malaria, the fight against unsafe and fatal abortions. It is still a little too early to say to what extent this will actually happen, but the KrF is strongly critical of the proposal.’ Nothing has changed since then. We know that this can lead to the loss of more lives – and not the opposite. The work for sexual and reproductive health and justice is literally vital, and of course we will also follow up and strengthen this field. The Christian People's Party also put in government when the Bush administration in its time did the same. Then we also had the Minister of Development, and we fight it. I would therefore like to be clear about the challenge that the Labour Party can give us, but our answer has been clear – and I hope it will. ‘The government also strengthens efforts for sexual and reproductive health and rights’, said Dag-Inge Ulstein in the good report.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2071	Agenda 2030 and sustainability targets are the road map for government work. The targets are only ten years away, and if they are to be achieved, efforts need to be intensified in a number of areas. Let me summarize three of the main challenges. Mobilising national resources for development will be crucial. 70 pst. the cost of achieving sustainability targets must be borne by developing countries themselves. Key elements of government’s work are fiscal efforts, the fight against illegal capital flows and corruption and the development of a productive and competitive private sector. Our work on national resource mobilisation is also highlighted by the OECD DAC in their assessment of Norwegian aid, which was presented earlier today and mentioned by several of the representatives. Here I would also like to stress that it will not be possible to achieve the sustainability objectives without functioning countries and institutions in developing countries. Responsibility for ownership and management of developments must lie with national authorities, and a main objective of development cooperation is to strengthen this precisely and to contribute to their long-term independence from assistance. Therefore, national capacity and state institutions in the countries themselves are so important. It must apply to Norwegian support through multilateral channels as well as to Norwegian bilateral cooperation. We want to work more on this, and that's why we also make it clear in the partner country. The second challenge is climate change, which threatens to hit the ground under much of the work done in relation to development. The government will continue its efforts to reduce expenditure, but in addition we will make climate adaptation, hunger reduction and prevention of natural disasters and crises a major area of Norwegian aid. By doing so, we may be helping to respond to the poor country most of all: how to adapt to the climate change that has already taken place. Here it is to contribute to a climate-smart and more productive agriculture entirely central. The third main challenge is about the fundamental principle throughout the 2030 agenda: that no one should be left out – «leave no one behinderd». The least developed countries have received an increasing share of world aid in recent years. The government is going the opposite way and will help reverse the trend — more will go to those who need it the most. Through new programmes focused on combating modern slavery, strengthening the efforts of people with disabilities and combating harmful customs, we place work on vulnerable and marginalised groups at the centre of Norwegian development policy. Again, no one should be left out. The work for sexual and reproductive health and rights is literally vital, as it is said here. It embraces a wide range of rights, such as access to sexual education and contraception, safe pregnancy and childbirth, the prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, and family planning. These are measures that all help to avoid dangerous abortions for both mother and child, and that are life-saving. The government takes a sharp distance from, and strongly disagrees with, the line the US administration has put on with the global gag rule, and we have recently expressed our concern in two written recordings to the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs. This situation is reinforced by the fact that the SRHR is being weakened in other countries as well as in international forums. It can lead to the loss of more lives, not the opposite. In addition, Trump’s policies contribute to the weakening of the work referred to here – related to both HIV and AIDS, prevention, the fight against malaria and the fight against unsafe and dangerous abortions. That is deeply worrying. It is important that Norway defends and strengthens this. So we're going to give about 1.3 billion. kr for that work. Norway is now the largest contributor to the UN Population Fund, and we will continue to work to strengthen the SRHR internationally. I want to thank you for the good input that has come, and it's exciting that it happens on a day when the OECD DAC is presenting its report. We're going to work everything we can to ensure an even more efficient use of resources, so that the money goes even further for those who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2096	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2102	As the Council of State is well aware, the Riksrevision has carried out a very thorough review of the results of training aid. As the Council of State knows well, you know that about 10 pst. of Norwegian aid now goes to education and there has been an increase in the use of education. What is worrying about the Riksrevision report is that it concludes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad are not doing enough to ensure reliable and relevant information on the results. In particular, they use an example of the training fund REACH, which has received 110 million. kr via the World Bank, without anyone knowing what this has led to. It is said by the Riksrevision that it is critical. What does the Council of State think about it, and what does the Council of State think to do to ensure the size of the information that Stortinget needs, and not least to improve the results of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2107	Thank you for the question. The National Audit Office has done a thorough job on the administrative audit of the information on the results of the training assistance. It is of great value to us because education is one of the main elements of the development effort. Then we can see that there are areas where management is getting better and better. But the report also clearly shows, as the representative says, that there are areas that can be strengthened. Action is already under way here. The theme of the report is quality of performance information, how it is assessed and used by management, and not what results have been achieved. Therefore, no conclusion can be drawn from the report on Norway that achieves the objectives set for training assistance. Nevertheless, some of the reform work that we have started, and that is now established, is one of the elements that I think will have great effect, just linked to being able to manage it better. The performance portal, referred to by several representatives, will also be able to play a part and contribute in this respect, so that we strengthen and consolidate the environment that is to take care of that management further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2118	In the State Council’s statement itself, the ‘UN has demonstrated that persons with disabilities are at the bottom of all development parameters’. Furthermore, in the same statement, he said: ‘It is estimated that about half of children with disabilities in low-income countries do not go to school.’ I want to go back to the National Audit Office's report. In the press release sent out by the National Audit Office, National Auditor Foss says that children with disabilities are an important target group for Norwegian aid, but that few projects can report on the number of children who have received such support, and that it is critical that a politically adopted priority has not been better followed up. Then I wonder what the council thinks about this. I myself have been on the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and worked to provide assistance to disabled children. What does he think about the follow-up from his own department?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2127	It is quite right, as the representative Hansen says, that the Riksrevision also addressed the need for better reporting related to the educational offer that applies to children with disabilities. Education access to this particular group is a priority, and has become an enhanced priority for us. We take the findings very seriously. Norway is also working to improve the quality of the data and to report on this particular group. The report also points out that there is a need for more information on the results of these projects and that it should be made public. We're going to do that in the result portal. It's quite obvious that there's better work to be done here, and there's more work to be done to make sure that the work reaches those who need it the most. We see good results on projects that have been implemented, but we need to make it visible and follow it up. I think the results portal can be a good tool for everyone to get the insight that is needed to keep the high credibility of the work we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2136	As I said in my post, Norwegian aid under this government has turned quite a bit towards focusing on Norwegian own interests – in several areas. One has used more of the funds to secure Norwegian business contracts in developing countries, and under this government, the focus is on connecting assistance to return agreements. It's on the Granavolden platform. My question is, how will the Minister of the Christian People's Party ensure that there is still the concern of the poor who govern the aid, and not the cooperation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2143	I can reassure the representative of Navarsete that it is quite obvious in the interest of the entire government that it is the poorest and most marginalised that is our starting point. There is no contradiction, as we can see, between the private sector and the important role of industry and the Norwegian contribution, such as Norfund. I can give an example of that, and also in the other areas. Now I mentioned in my presentation what goes on in small-scale agriculture. I follow the representative completely when one refers to the World Bank's commitment to it, and that it is a sector that can give it double the effect if we engage it. We'll come back to a lot more about it later when we're going to present our work on climate adaptation and greater food security. At the same time, there are amazingly many good examples of how business locally can contribute to both creating decent working life, the energy needed for that development, and creating work. So for us, it's not the opposite; it's important to stimulate just local resource mobilisation and job growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2154	I thank you for your answer. In an evaluation some years ago Norfund got relatively poor scores. However, today there is criticism that the government is using so much money in global funds, precisely because it's harder to see the effect, it's harder to control the funds, it's harder to measure what results you get. Has the Council agreed that one should turn more of the drug use from the global funds into bilateral assistance and UN organisations? And how will he ensure that we get a much better overview of the impact of aid resources, that there is more openness about their effects, including on the Storting and on the Eelmenta?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2159	One of the issues on which the OECD DAC challenged us, and the leader, Susan Moorehead, today, was just connected to the multilateral channels. The clear message she gave in her presentation was that we did not have to stop using the multilateral channels, but that we had to improve it, strengthen it and participate in it even better, and, as was just said here, we could follow the money even more clearly to the country level. We are absolutely convinced that these are good and effective channels, but this is an interaction. We use civil society to a great extent, and that's exactly in the balance we see where the different channels can reach the longest. Norfund has had great effect and has good results, they have created clean energy, they have created jobs. Only in Uganda has Norfund's investments been included and given more than 40 pst. of that energy, in a country where only 20 pst. of the population has it. The same power plant has provided 200 000 new jobs as a direct consequence. There are good investments that have been made, and so are we going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2164	I want to pursue issues about return agreements. I have to say, I was very impressed with the Minister of Development. He had not sat many days in the chair until he was very clear at saying that the Granavolden platform he had become minister for, he wanted to obstruct. It was about putting up with the need to push countries back by punishing them in the area of aid. The council said it was completely out of date. My question is, what does this mean to you in practice? What kind of debate has the Council of State had with the Minister of Justice on this issue? And in what way has the Prime Minister accepted that the Minister for Development has clearly obstructed the declaration of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2171	I understood both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice there and stress that the point the representative refers to in the Granavolden platform will be followed up. As I myself have stated, there are several ways to use the position of Norway. However, what is not on the government platform is that Norway should threaten to cut aid to establish return agreements. Such an approach would not have worked either. However, facilitating return and good reintegration in the home country is important. The starting point is that all countries are obliged to accept their own citizens. This is why Norway has now concluded a number of return agreements, and significant progress has been made in those areas as well. It is therefore appropriate for us to link ourselves to the work done by both the EU and others, precisely to facilitate this. There are procedures that are being worked on, and we're also part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2176	As I hear the minister now, he seems to have moderated some of what was said about this in February. Then you said that it was not appropriate to use assistance as a press medium to secure a return agreement. Now I hear something else. Now we're talking about different methods, etc. to get back in place. But do you stand by that statement, that it is not appropriate to use assistance as a press release to secure return agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2182	The President would only point out that it would be nice if the representative would replace the word ‘you’ with ‘the Council of States’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2187	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2192	The government platform does not say that Norway should threaten to cut aid to put the government platform in place. That's why my words stand by. It has also been confirmed by the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2202	The first report of the Council of State, 23 May, confirms Norwegian development policy. The Precursors of the Council said in their statement last year: ‘The sexual and reproductive health and rights of women are threatened by forces that will reverse what we have achieved.’ It's good that Ulstein repeats the same thing here today. The UN's third sustainability objective, good health and quality of life for all, and the UN's fifth sustainability objective, gender equality, are too many two sides of the same coin. It's also the world's men's day today. I was a little afraid to say it – I was able to say it – from the pulpit. A UNESCO report shows that one in ten girls south of Sahara are absent from school when they have people. That's the whole 20 pst. of a school year. As much as a third of the world's schools lack safe toilets, which makes it difficult for girls to handle people at school. It is absolutely necessary that male leaders talk about people in order to break taboos, to solve practical challenges and to ensure that girls can participate in society. I want to challenge the Council of State to talk about people, as more have done – I heard that the Council of State did not take up that challenge in its intervention. But on this day I think of the ladies who actually want people more than anything else, because they carry on a child they don't manage to feed or take responsibility for. Millions of women and girls live in countries where abortion is totally or partially prohibited, where contraceptives are unavailable, and where, through value-conservatives and religious leaders, power stands in the way of women and girls’ ability to control their own bodies, their own sexuality and their own lives. Norway has been a lighthouse for equality. Many do not recognize Norway after the Prime Minister has tightened Norwegian abortion laws to a large extent in the negotiations for a new majority here at home. The world's most severe abortion laws are in Latin America, Asia and Africa, and they hit the poorest women and girls hardest. In several countries, there is a total ban on abortion. 97 pst. abortions carried out in Africa are considered unsafe, 95 pst. in Latin America. Only 6 pst. abortions in a country occur in an unsafe environment. The World Health Organization believes that around 22 million insecure abortions are carried out worldwide annually, and only 5 million of these women are hospitalized. They can't tell us what's wrong with them, why they're hurt. In many societies, abortion is linked to strong prejudices. It's a reluctance to commit abortions. Even talking about abortion can be taboo. The government can't just talk about people, he can also talk about abortion. The gender equality nation Norway has an inheritance and a commitment. The statement confirms Norwegian development policy, and I am pleased that it is so clear – both the Council of State and his party trap Hareide – that Trump and «the global gag rule» are being distanced. But unfortunately, we need both commitment and effort in the important international fight for legal abortion, and there I would have wanted a greater commitment from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2222	Thank you very much to the Council of State for the presentation he kept in Stortinget. Norway has a long tradition of being a country occupied by the world beyond our own borders. We are a country committed to the UN, we have a high level of assistance, and we are committed to helping to find solutions to conflicts. Norway also has a dedicated people, which is reflected among others. in the innumerable voluntary organisations we have, which are making an equitable effort for people in other parts of the world. It's important to take care of. I think it is good that we in Stortinget have regular debates on Norwegian development policy, as it is now, both in terms of the scope of the assistance and its content. But the most important thing is that the money we actually give is spent in the best possible way, that we think focused on the results we want to achieve. That's why I think it's right that we use the targeted effort in areas where we have great competence, and where we can go ahead, such as by investing in women and equality, peace building, human rights, climate, good governance and the fight against corruption. For a long time, Norway has played a central role in taking the lead in health, and in particular — as was also mentioned in the previous speeches — the health of women, such as sexual and reproductive health. We live at a time when women’s rights are challenged worldwide, both in countries that are not developed and, unfortunately, also in countries that we can say are well developed – and which again punish other countries. The discussion about abortion and the ability of women to control their own body and health is unfortunately small in too many countries. I therefore believe it is important for Norway to go ahead and defend all the women who get their lives ruined because they do not have the basic rights, and that Norway stands up and says from now on when countries through leadership in its assistance are exacerbating the situation of many women. During the red-green government, from the opposition it was constantly noted that Norway was too low on education in development policy. Norway was committed to education at the time, but had chosen, among other things, identifying health and climate as special areas of activity in which we had good competence. When we got a new government, the right government, we got a turn – as expected – because it was announced – where we wanted to focus more on education. It's a good priority that you wanted to do that, but the question is whether it might have been a little bit too rough, that it went a little too fast in the swings, and that you actually haven't been able to achieve the results you should, which I also had to do in the chord shift instead. As the Minister for Development said in his statement, Norway spends 3.7 billion. expenditure on education and the National Audit Office's report on the results of training assistance is quite discouraging. It concluded that nothing is really being done to get reliable information about the results, that Norway’s large allocation to REACH, as I mentioned earlier, has not given expected results, that there are considerable delays in spending money, that there is little information about what Norwegian funds are spent on – and what I took up instead, which I think is the most bad, that the investment in education for children with disabilities, which on several occasions has given the Storting clear leads to prioritisation, is not actually going to be. The National Audit Office's report says that almost no projects can report on the number of children that have been reached, so you can't say how many children you've reached. It's worrying. When the right-wing government went so high in its commitment to education, I think it's disappointing that you don't see results. There are other countries that have had a long tradition of taking the lead in education, such as the United Kingdom. I believe that, in the context of aid policy in general, countries must share what they are good at using the specific competences of the different countries. For example: Norway is taking control of women, gender equality, health and climate, and, for example, The United Kingdom assumes driving responsibilities in terms of education. I think it would have been a wise approach to how we use the means to help, that country is doing what they're best at. The Minister of Development's statement seems to me to have been a good starting point for taking that debate, and I hope that's a discussion we can come back to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2237	I was a little surprised at the approach angle of the representative Petter Eide in the rowing corner, where he actually used the word that the government council had ‘obstructed’ the government platform at a point – which has never been on the government platform. If this is the level of precision in these debates, it might not be that good, to say it like that. I would like to thank the Minister of Development for an important, good and thorough presentation, and I am pleased that the climate was such an important part of it, because climate is to a great extent development policy as well. It strikes unfairly, it hits the poorest first, already poor people in already poor countries who can destroy their livelihood. By 2030 we are at risk of 100 million people being pushed into extreme poverty due to climate change. About one billion people today live without energy – one billion. These are people that we are going to lift out of poverty at the same time as we are going to solve the climate problems. No one can or must underestimate the size of this challenge. The climate crisis gives rise to an involvement in how Norway will achieve the targets for 2013 and what action needs to be taken. But it also strengthens the commitment we must have for the poor of the world. It is therefore appropriate to recall that if the climate crisis is not taken seriously, there is neither an economically sound policy nor a solidarity policy. And that is why action needs to be followed up. In 2019, it's set at 6.8 billion. on the assistance budget for climate, environment, sea and renewable energy. Further priority needs to be given to this work because poor countries need help to skip the fossil phase. So far it's invested 10.9 billion. kr in renewable energy through Norfund. We must contribute with adaptation, adaptation to the climate change that has already taken place, and the prevention of natural disasters. This shall be a central part of the development process. Norway is today a leading country in the climate field, which does not mean that you can lean back and take it easy, rather on the contrary you have to continue to be even more forward-looking, because we are going to continue to be a country of first priority. That is why I am pleased with the leadership of the Minister for Development in his good presentation, because climate policy is definitely also development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2246	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2251	I asked for the word only to perhaps make a brief comment on the introduction of the representative Heggelund's comments, a consideration about me. I have no other sources of government opinion on the return agreement than what I have read in the media. On the basis of the Government Platform, on 3 February, the Minister for Development said in the Newspaper: ‘It is not appropriate to use aid as a means of pressurisation in refugee policy.’ It was interpreted in the same article by Jon Engen-Helgheim of the Progress Party. He says, ‘To deny an agreement in a government platform because one does not like it is hopeless’. In other words, it was considered by another representative in another government party to be an obstruction of the government platform. It is possible that the representative, Mr Engen-Helgheim, believes it to be unexplained. But I understand that this was interpreted in public, so the Minister of Development here wanted to tell me that he disagreed with this part of the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2266	There was a challenge in the process. It is absolutely true, as the representative Kjerkol said, that people are unfortunately a taboo in too many cultures and countries. That's something we have to do with. It's the most natural thing in the world, but unfortunately, as Ingvild Kjerkol refers to, it prevents a lot of girls from going to school in many of the developing countries in which we also work. We have several projects, including: in Malawi, where it is about both mind-creating work and knowledge of menstruation. We give out bonds and ensure that a person gets good and safe toilet facilities. It has helped to ensure that several girls have been able to continue their schooling. I almost got the button pressed right before I came in here, to join the campaign that's just about it, that men have to talk about people. If it's not out already, it's on its way out on the world web to challenge even more men to talk openly about people. It's an important contribution, especially on a day like today, the international menstrual day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2273	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox From 28 May onwards, an application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Anniken Huitfeldt. 16.13 and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Mani Hussaini, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2308	There is a great deal of commitment to the basic preparedness around Norway. It's not so strange, because there are over 5,000 ambulance workers who work every day to ensure your and my safety. But what I think is a little strange, is that no one from the government parties was able to take a debate on response time at the latest this morning when we were going to discuss it. I also think it's a little strange, when we're going to have a debate in the big room about response time, that none of the members from the Right, the Advance Party or the Christian People's Party meet when there's such a lot of commitment around the country. This week we got a rapture from Troms, where the rapporteurs in Ibestad, Tjeldsund, Lenvik and Tranøy, who were elected to the Right, signed that they saw the importance of having a legal demand for response time. They saw that it was important in their vicinity, in their reality, for their people, and they signed it on the basis of the role of the Ombudsman they have. The rapporteur of the Christian People's Party in Skjervøy also signed and supported it uproar, precisely because he saw that it was important for the community's citizens with response time and demands regarding the country's ambulances. Therefore, it is sad that the Christian People's Party, which initially supported the demand – before they joined the government – does not participate in the debate today. In the last year, the Workers' Party has turned around in the discussion on response time. When we had the treatment of response time in Stortinget the last time, there was no majority, because the Workers' Party leaned towards the Right and the Advance Party. However, after a thorough debate – after a district committee in the Workers' Party – they have concluded that they support the views of the Centre Party and Norwegian ambulance workers, that it is wise to have a response time for ambulances around the country. This should have been the majority – if the Christian People's Party could also vote according to its own conviction – because it is a majority of the parties in the Stortinget who today have said that they believe that response time is a good tool for strengthening the country's ambulance service. And when you discuss this: response time is – and it's a little important – not the goal itself. The goal is for you and me to feel safe. It is clear that preparedness in Norway is demanding. We're an extremely long-distance country, and we have to constantly see how we can do it in the best possible way. But the central task of policy is preparedness, whether it be police, defence, ambulance or fire. That's our core job. And then we have huge distances. If you compare Norway with other countries, you can see that Troms and Finnmark, as I was in the city – the coercive Troms and Finnmark – are larger in area than Ireland. So, of course, it's more demanding to do emergency work in Norway than it is in many other European countries. We basically have a good emergency response in Norway, but we had an emergency selection, and we have processes where we have concluded that we have to do things even better. Unfortunately, in its preparedness work, the government has had one conclusion all along, and it is that to do things better, centralisation is the answer – and it is to make it so-called more robust. We've seen it especially in the police sector, where the number of places of employment has been reduced by over 120. There has been a great deal of local concern, and there is also a great deal of internal concern in the police that emergency services have suffered, and not least prevention. But it's been the answer to the government: centralization. When you go into the most basic emergency units: ambulances, health, police and fire, which are municipal, it's interesting to see: who's going first? Who is it that comes first to the place when things happen? It's basically the fire service that's only at the point of damage when all three units are called out simultaneously, and the fire service is the local, the close, maybe what the government would say is the least robust, because it's not centralized, but it's close to where people live. In addition, it is prescribed that they have a response time in the fire service, as opposed to what we have in the ambulance service. Let's go a little bit into the numbers when it comes to the country's emergency services. What's going on? Take Finnmark as an example. In 2016, the fire service was first at the point of damage in 52.7 p.m. of the cases. So two years went by, and the government is implementing its reforms, its actions. Then it has become so that the fire service is first at the point of damage in 60,2 p.m. of the cases. So the state, whether it's an ambulance or a police force, rarely comes first. It is the local fire service that does — the local, often part-time fireman — that has to go into the situation. If you look at it nationally, you can see that the health service, for which Councillor Bent Höie is responsible, was first at the place of injury in 29.9 p.m. of the cases in 2016. It fell to 27 pst. in 2018. The police were first at the point of damage in 17,5 p.m. of the cases in 2016 – it fell to 15.3 pst. in 2018. The fire department, the room, the nearby, was before under 50 pst, in 2018 it was at 54.8 pst. So this is in two years. The figures from the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness show one thing, that the state is becoming involved in much of the close preparedness work around Norway. What we have to discuss here in Stortinget is: do we think it's right, or do we think it's wrong? And then you might have to be open about that, those who think it's right that more and more of the responsibility should be transferred to the local part-time fireman. We in the Center Party believe it is wrong and have been clear about it over time. Last week the Minister of Emergency was here in Stortinget. She took no responsibility for anything, shifting responsibility to everyone else. Now the Minister of Health is here, and he is at least responsible for ambulances. The response from the Minister of Emergency Response on behalf of the government last week, when we noted that it was a challenge that the fire service came more and more often first, was: I am ‘ glad that someone is coming’. That's a statement I don't think the government can support, but that's what was said last week by the Minister of Emergency Response. So to the discussion that I hope Bent Höie can go right into. Today, we have indicative response times within the Ambulance Service of 12 minutes in central strokes and 25 minutes in so-called pig-grown strokes, and in none of the country's counties, this target has been achieved. It's a fact, we're not near that goal in any of the country's counties. Then is my first challenge to the Council of State: Does the Council of State think it's okay that we're not near that goal? If he thinks it's okay, he gets to be honest and open on it, that he thinks it's okay that it's the fire service that more and more should act first. And if he doesn't think it's okay, what action will the Council of State take, when the Right to Now, at least – and the Government – has been against legalising response time? And then challenge number. 2: Doesn't the Council of State also see, when you have the processes we see now in Trøndelag, parts of Nord-Norway and Møre and Romesdal, that a law of response time will give a very clear lead to the health business of the country that you can't carry out the centralisation projects that are currently at the discussion stage with regard to the country's ambulance service, that it will be a very strong political leadership, and that it can be an effective tool, just as it has been for the fire service? I hope that even if the government parties almost do not set up at all – even none of the 92 had the opportunity to set up the radio this morning early – Bent Höie will be able to give a good answer on how we can get close to the response time. That's point number. One, because that's the goal. And why can't he possibly be open that a law can be a good way to force health businesses to prioritize the close ambulance service more than what we see today? We cannot live with the fact that more and more of the local emergency work is going to go from health and police to the local fire department.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2336	When the representative Schlagsvold Vedum promotes an interpellation in the Storting on this important topic, I expect the representative to have the intention that it is important to discuss it in the staging room, and that the most important thing is not to discuss it in the media, which one can get the impression of through his posts now. Norway has and will continue to have one of the world’s best-developed and competent emergency medical services outside hospitals. That's what the government's policy is. The centre party has become experts in strawman argumentation, where one builds up a picture of what the government thinks, and then argues against it afterwards. These services shall consist of ambulance service, municipal medical watch, medical watch centres and emergency medical number 113. OECD figures show that Norwegian results are in the top class in the world for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. This indicates that we have a functioning emergency chain. It is the health regions and municipalities that are responsible for emergency preparedness, and I would like to stress it – the health companies and the municipalities. Health services, regardless of the level of responsibility, shall provide good and sound health care to those who need it together. The organisation of the ambulance service is of major importance for the health services of the municipality, and the organisation of the municipal medical service is of course of great importance in how the ambulance service and specialist health services can handle their tasks. No one can plan these areas alone – without involving the other party. The Emergency Committee pointed out that municipalities and health businesses could improve the interaction on emergency medical services. That is an assessment that I fully agreed with. Therefore, the Emergency Medicine Regulation now requires local authorities and regional health businesses to ensure appropriate and coordinated action in the various services in the emergency medical chain. I have also clarified in the business meeting with health regions that the cooperation agreement will be based on an overall review of the emergency medical preparedness of health companies and municipalities, and that there will be dialogue between health companies and municipalities if you are to work with changes in the emergency medical offer. I believe the most important thing in the future is to see the emergency medical chain in the context. We know that health services are going to undergo major changes. We get more older people, technology offers new opportunities, and we have to look closely at how we make good patient paths across service levels. For this reason, one of the next major messages on the national health and hospital plan, coming to the autumn, will just have a topic related to the emergency chain and will point out a strategic direction for this in the coming years. Health regions are responsible for the ambulance service. We have a good and decentralised ambulance service. This was also revealed by NOU 2015: 17, First and foremost. I quote from there: ‘With long distances, scattered populations and climatic challenges, Norway is a challenging country to provide emergency medical services. Compared to other countries, Norway has a decentralised ambulance structure with a well-developed ambulance service.’ There is a great deal of attention to response times in the ambulance service. In St.meld. No 43 for 1999–2000, on emergency response, the proposed requirements for response times from NOU 1998: 9, if urgent..., were given guidance. The goal of the emergency summit is 90 pst. the population shall be reached by ambulances within 12 minutes in cities and within 25 minutes in pig-grown areas. the importance of rapid assistance by e.g. cardiac arrest and stroke are well documented. However, there is no clear consensus on what is good or sufficient response time for the ambulance service. Therefore, the Committee did not recommend what the Centre Party advocates, namely to prescribe the response times, but recommended that response time results be published at Healthnorge.no, so that they can be used for improvement. This is a recommendation from the public body that I have followed up and implemented. In the spontaneous Question Time on 22 May, I said that there was a positive development in response times both in densely built strokes and in pig-grown strokes compared to 2016. This was based on the figures for 2017. I have only been made aware of the fact that the Health Directorate published figures for 2018 on 9 May. The results for 2018 compared to the results for 2016 show an improvement in densely built strips, but slightly poorer development in pig-grown strips. However, the figures for 2018 continue to confirm that the target response time is better in pig-grown strokes than in densely built strokes. In built-in areas, the ambulance was at the scene of the incident within the target figure of 65.5 p.m. of the events. In pig-grown strokes, the ambulance was at the scene of the incident within the figure of 78 pst. of the events. Unfortunately, there have been — and remain — significant challenges with the data quality underlying the response time figures. According to the Health Directorate, there have also been challenges with the figures for the response times for 2018. The figures for 2018 lack response times for Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, which makes it difficult to compare the figures from previous years. I also assume that the health regions and the Health Directorate are reviewing and correcting weaknesses in the data base, so that the figures in the future get better quality. Today, with the challenges I have mentioned, these figures appear to have remained stable over time and below the recommended targets. At the same time, the number of assignments has increased significantly. I react when the representative Battle Violence Vedum in his interpellation divides the population into an a-layer and a b-layer in the case of ambulance services. I understand that the Central Party agrees with the emergency committee's recommendations on different objectives for densely built strips and for pig-grown strips. Does this also mean that the Central Party divides the people into an a-layer and a b-layer, and will impose such a division of the people – if one is to use the Center Party's own rhetoric in this area? Early onset of cardiopulmonary rescue and defibrillation is time-critical. That's why we've also started a national first aid program: together, we save lives. The goal is to save lives and create lifelong learning about lifesaving first aid in the population. Other areas of action in this area are complementing public intervention by emergency workers from police, fire services and non-governmental organisations. Another area of intervention is to improve the functioning of AMK centres through systematic training and training. These are important measures that save lives and improve preparedness, not least in pig-grown areas, where it takes longer before the ambulance arrives. Examples of unexpected cardiac arrest show the importance of seeing the acute medical chain in the context. Regulation fixing of response times for the ambulance service will contribute to a one-sided attention to the arrival of the ambulance. The important thing in emergency situations is to get competent help to the patient, regardless of whether it is the ambulance service or other health care. I notice that professionals call for the response time to be counted from when the patient gets help from the first paragraph of the chain. The Directorate for Health is responsible for the national quality indicators and must also assess whether the indicators should be revised in line with this type of input. Two factors are central to the quality of the ambulance service: time before help is needed the competence of those who come In some pig-grown areas, there are very few assignments. In some ambulance stations the emergency time is above 90 pst. It presents challenges in maintaining the level of skills among staff and may lead to a deterioration in the quality of service provision. The representative, Slagsvold Vedum, brings forward North Norway and Middle Norway and expresses concern about the ambulance offer in these regions. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has obtained information from the two regions on what has been done to ensure good preparedness. Health Nord states that they have a decentralised ambulance service and that in 2015 the preparedness was strengthened by ambulance helicopters at Evenes. The number of ambulance cars is stable. Courses, regular training and professional days are important measures in the ambulance service, especially for those with fewer patient assignments. Risk management guidelines are in place. In the case of plans for changes in the ambulance structure, ROS analysis shall be carried out together with the municipalities concerned. Health Mid-Norway reports that overall they have a well-developed emergency response, consisting of 66 ambulance stations, 4 boat ambulances, several ambulance/ambulance helicopters and rescue helicopters. A project has been launched, the Røros project, which is trying out a forward-looking model for mobile integrated healthcare. The Røros project is a collaboration between St. Olav's hospital and the municipality of Røros, where the capacity of the ambulance staff is used in local health care and prevention. Health Mid-Norway has reported that they have recently reviewed the response time data base. The review shows that response times are significantly better than previously estimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2388	What's absolutely fundamental when we're discussing response time is that we've had an indicative standard since 2000, i.e. almost 20 years. When we look at the statistics after, when it's almost 20 years, are we nearing the goals of the Storting itself 20 years ago? The answer to that is clearly no. Then we have to discuss it, and the government has to be open about it if you think that the goals of achieving 90 pst. by those living in pig-grown areas, within 25 minutes and 90 pst. by those living in urban struts, within 12 minutes, is incorrect. If you don't want to approach those dimensions, they're going to have no content. Bent Höie was unable to clarify whether he believes that the norm requirements that were set 20 years ago are an unrealistic goal. We believe that this is a good objective. Then you can always discuss whether you can do things even better, but at least you have to pursue a policy that allows us to approach the goal of 90 pst. the population is confident that the objectives set 20 years ago will be achieved in 12 minutes and 25 minutes. It was also repeated by the Emergency Committee that it seemed that it was a wise approach. A question that I hope the Council of State can answer, to which the Council of State for Preparedness could not answer last week, is: Is it satisfactory for the government that it is increasingly the fire service, the part-time fireman or the part-time firewoman, who is going to take assignments whether it is for health firms, on behalf of the Council of State Bent Höie, who is the head of health companies, or in the justice sector of the police. It's a worrying development. What is going to happen over time, if in large parts of the country there is more and more strain on the fire service and the part-time fireman, is that part-time firemen can be more and more difficult to recruit because one is getting more and more strained, and there is more and more going on beyond other occupations, other professional activity. That debate must be taken by the government. It is the government that is ultimately responsible for the preparedness of our country and that it is safe to live in all parts of Norway. It has been a strength for Norway that we have lived in all parts of the country. Then we must have a basic preparedness in terms of police, ambulance and fire, in both large and small places. Now there are more and more places where you will find that police and health professionals are not the ones who are there first, but that it is the fire service. So my challenge to the government council is: can he clarify whether he thinks it's a good goal to reach the indicative response times in 25 minutes and 12 minutes? It should be possible to say if he thinks it is a goal. And does he think it's a good development that the fire service is more and more often the first to get to the damage site?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2397	I think this is the simplest question I've ever received from the representative of Battle Violence Vedum, and I can repeat what I said in the main answer: Yes, I think those numbers are very good to govern after. That is also why I immediately followed up the public body on emergency medical services outside the hospital, which recommended that these figures be introduced as a national quality indicator — and it has been implemented. The committee considered the proposal of the Centre Party. I find that the Center Party is still referring to this sample as having authority in the field. I fully agree with that, but then I am very surprised that the centre party totally disregards the fact that the sample actively took the position that one should not introduce this as a rule. When I hear the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, talk about the regulation, I hear the representative actually talking about the regulation being a sort of goal to reach. It will then have no other meaning than that already existing, namely that health regions already have the task of following up the national quality indicators – besides that it will undermine the meaning of the regulation because it will then not be perceived as a law but as something to go after. It'll be a very bad solution. The consequences of what the Centre Party proposes – if one actually out in Health-Norway is to deal with it as a regulation, as a law, that one should keep anyway – will be that one has to set up a number of ambulance stations that will have two-three missions a week. These shall be manned by competent personnel. There should be equipment at the same level as in the other ambulance stations, I expect. And then I have to ask the Center Party: what do they think is the probability that we're going to be able to recruit competent and neat ambulance personnel to all of these new stations with so few assignments? I think most people see that it won't be realistic. But the numbers that we've set, we're going to rule by. The health regions are measured on it. We want a decentralised ambulance structure with ambulance services, but as the public body often referred to by the representative Battle Violence Vedum was very clear: it is the overall emergency medical chain that is crucial for the safety of the population. Therefore, I am also very clear that in the cases where health regions plan to make changes to the ambulance structure, it should be done in close cooperation with the municipalities, and the ROS analyses will be carried out together with the municipalities – because this is related.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2408	This was a very clarifying interpellation, when we hear the last article of the Council of State. There he asserts, with contempt in his voice, that if one were to take seriously the proposal of the Senter party, it would mean that one had to create many more ambulance stations in strokes where there were almost no cages of people. What we are proposing is that one should comply with the guide response time requirements. We do not propose any tougher demands – that the ambulance should be speeded up. We simply suggest that the response time requirements that have been in our debt since 2000 should actually work out there. At the same time, when the Council of State says that this is completely impossible to achieve, he says to Stortinget that he and the government have not intended to allow these response times to be valid for people in the districts. Those were clear words for the money. Including it in some quality requirements will be done. But we immediately understand that there will be no consequences. Governments have no goal of reaching these requirements because they are impossible, as he himself said from the pulpit. It is because of this that we have been involved in this matter all along, because we see that the government does not have the goal of making the response times better out there. There's almost a measure of the opposite, because the government can't afford this. When I hear the answer from the state council here, I'm even more certain that we have to legislate for this, if you want to get equivalent offers out there. The 25-minute limit, which is actually a very long time, must be a minimum that you can expect for 90 pst. of the population -- not all, but 90 pst. be able to expect an ambulance to arrive within that time. Governments indicated that the emergency selection did not propose legal requirements. No, that's true, but the whole starting point for the emergency selection was a strong criticism that the government had not done enough to strengthen the prehospital supply. They described a situation in which there was a simultaneous centralisation of both medical, emergency and ambulance services, and they thought that there had to be a great increase in prehospital supply. What happens is that many health professionals have plans to cut ambulances. We can take Health More and Romesdal as the last example, which, in addition to moving the maternity ward and giving them the birth route longer, is going to cut about. Ten million. kr – it was well – that is above the service as a requirement for savings. There will be no shorter response time for one to save 10 million. kr. It is also the case that the Council of State takes on one point that the emergency selection proposed, and believes that there is an explanation as to why the government does not do more to strengthen ambulance preparedness in the districts and otherwise. We have twenty years with guide demands for response time, and we see no improvement. Therefore, it is well founded when the Centre Party is concerned about this matter. It is also the case that the State Council has not followed up on the emergency selection in a separate big message. That's pretty special. Now the Council of State says that this should be included in the national health and hospital plan — yes, in the same way that interaction is to be included in the national health and hospital plan because one does not want to evaluate the interaction reform, in the same way as mental health is to be included in the national health and hospital plan because one would not deliver a separate mental health report. This is just talking to get away from what's actually the reality out there. The truth is, there are emergency workers out there who have to take over a lot of what's been in the ambulance business before. Emergency workers do not have such health education. The NOU recommended the provision of emergency facilities. It does not follow the government and the government. The central party has good arguments to suggest a law, and it's just a shame that the government doesn't follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2423	First, I want to commend the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, for raising this question, which gives us the opportunity to elaborate on it here in the Chamber, because it is an important question. Some of the fears of the population when it is said that preparedness in the Norwegian ambulance service is too poor should obviously be highlighted here in the hall. Then I just have to regret that the enquiry that came from the NRK did not come to me. We obviously have a little to go on about the response time in our own decision-making chain, otherwise I would have been there. [[muttering in the hall]] There are demands for response time, as has been said several times here, and there is something to stretch after. This is a responsibility for both regional health companies and municipalities. Since the representative of Slagsvold Vedum mentioned Middle Norway, I would just like to refer to the many central party-driven municipalities in this area, where some of the responsibility for raising the preparedness lies. I can't help saying that we can't view response time as the only factor that matters to patients in Norway. It is patient safety that we need to debate, and we should not be blind to response time. It is then quite obvious – and this is what the representative Toppe, who was just on the platform, knows – that we also need to put in this calculation the competences that have been built up in the ambulance service in recent years and that are now in the process of getting an overview of all Norwegian ambulances, not least the equipment in the ambulances. So patient safety has improved significantly. You can probably put in several ambulances – that's quite possible – but it can't be at the expense of the equipment or the ambulance training. Since this theme came up, I have had the pleasure of reading a 50-page emergency analysis carried out by Health Mid-Norway. I assume that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, would be a little more humble if he had read the report that came in 2018. It points to a very serious problem, of course. In 2017, there were 105 ambulances in the area of Health Mid-Norway. It's estimated that we're going to need 126 ambulances in 2030. This is a problem that all governments will have to deal with until that year. What is interesting in that report is that in the case of actions to be implemented, it is shown, inter alia, that: that there are a number of unnecessary transport operations. That is what the report says. That's obviously right. In addition, the use of resources throughout the whole supply chain needs to be strengthened. And that's clearly right. In addition, cooperation between municipalities and regional health businesses needs to be strengthened, as is done, for example. on Røros in an excellent model, which has been successful. Since we are in central Norway, I must also mention the health platform, which will make the ambulance service much more effective in the future. As for the training of paramedics, where the Left, after the opinion of the representative Battle Violence Vedum, is perhaps a little annoying, we have it four places in the country now. It is a three-year Bachelor's degree programme at Nord universitet, OsloMet, the University of Tromsø and the University of Stavanger. It represents a formidable increase in the quality of Norwegian ambulance staff, which I think we should not fail to include in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2440	I realized at the last post that I was both self-evident and irritating, but I am neither self-evident – at least I hope not – nor so very annoying, but I do not think the statistics are good enough when you look at how the response time for Norwegian ambulances is. And that's what I'm worried about, because there's a lot of people who have experienced that the ambulance hasn't come in a short time. When we talk about comprehensive statistics like this, there will be many people who have experienced that it takes a lot more than 30 minutes and 40 minutes, for the statistics show averages. I feel that the government is not worried that you are not close to achieving the response time targets. In the last post that Councillor Höie held, it really seemed as if he were satisfied that one was not approaching the goal of response time. It is not just a problem for me or some of the representatives here in the Chamber — it is a problem for those who have acute health needs around Norway. If you have a stroke or heart attack, if there's a car accident or anything else, people have to be sure that it gets people to the accident site as soon as possible. When we then see that it has not really improved the response time with the tools that have been implemented, it is time to discuss whether we should use new tools, as we did in the fire department, where it is the regulation. The fire service is the part of Norwegian preparedness that is more and more rapid at the site of the damage – police and ambulances are becoming increasingly rare. As far as police and ambulances are concerned, it's the responsibility of the state. It must be a defeat for the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that those under government's responsibility are increasingly coming to a place of injury, while those under municipal, local responsibility are the ones who have to deal with more and more cases. State Council Bent Höie has not responded in a round after lap to whether he and the government think it is a good development that Norwegian fire crews have to take over more police duties and more health duties because the response time is not good enough in either the police or the ambulance service. As a matter of fact, there is now a majority in the room for law enforcement for the ambulance service. The working party went against the health fraction here at Stortinget, but there was a lot of commitment at the national meeting, and one went in for it there. That's why it became a majority for it in the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party was active followers of it before they entered the government. I hope that the Council of State Höie will also put the prestige aside and say that a new grip is to be taken, because progress has gradually gone in the negative direction. But thank you and the price that we have very much skilled ambulance staff around Norway who do a conscientious and good job every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2453	I am a little uncertain about the value of the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, asking questions, because he is obviously not interested in the answers, or he does not listen when the answer is given. I have been very clear both in my main post and in my next post that the government is behind the response times recommended by the public body, and I have followed up the recommendation by introducing it as a national quality indicator, which it was not when the representative Battle Violence Vedum put in government. This is something we measure health companies, and we obviously want them to now, if not we wouldn't have done it. I record that when the representatives Toppe and Schlagsvold Vedum talk about their proposal to prescribe the response time, they talk about it as if it still should be a goal, and therefore I am very uncertain whether they really mean anything other than what the government is doing. Now we have major challenges with the figures going back in time – but what we see is that development has been relatively stable, while several ambulances have arrived, and there has been an increase in the number of missions. What will be crucial — in addition to being aware of the response time, of course — is to make the emergency medical chain work better together. This means that one must also consider the local resources as a resource — not an alternative to the health business for which they are responsible, for the ambulance, but as part of a whole. This was also an important part of the emergency committee’s recommendations. When e.g. municipalities, such as the Centerpart-steered Bjerkreim municipality, introduce local response teams in their municipality, this means a significant strengthening of the security of the population. It has contributed to improving the recruitment of municipal health and care services. Those who work in a nursing home and in the home hospital in the municipality of Bjerkreim say that they have got a more exciting and professional work to do. It has also contributed to more stable manning. This is not a negative, this is a positive. This does not mean that Health Stavanger should withdraw with its ambulances; it simply means that one who has the ability to see the local resources together with the resources coming from the specialist health service – for the benefit of the population. That is what I am demanding for health businesses, and this is going to be further elaborated in the national health and hospital plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2468	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2486	I really enjoyed the Internet when it came. It was a great opportunity and not least very practical for me as a journalist, both to acquire knowledge and information and to spread my journalism – and others. But it quickly became clear to journalists that they had to check carefully whether the source they had on the Internet was credible. Because you would not lose confidence, be taken into account, field in PFU and destroy the reputation of both yourself and the medium you worked in. Then came social media, and I cheered: for a crazy good way to spread the journalistic drug, and so well there's going to be a lot of interaction and dialogue about the drug. And even better: everyone can be their own publisher, blog and make their own websites. For a wonderful democratization process we are in, for a boost to freedom of expression, I thought – for a long time. But even though I'm still excited about social media and all the possibilities offered by the Internet, and will defend freedom of expression with beaks and claws, over the last few years, we've seen that the Internet and social media have also become a source of much negative, such as web and unfine comment fields – at the latest today referred to by the Prime Minister as something that makes Norway a bad place to grow up. And they are a threat to the free press and democracy, through the spread of content with a little bit of lightly dealing with the truth, and often also the publication and dissemination of direct false news out on purpose – in order to achieve everything from just being fun to what is more problematic: 'fake news' to give a little extra argument in political matters or actually influence elections. Many of these false news stories, at least many of the very unambiguous and unbalanced issues with traditional presseetic standards, are published on web pages and web pages that do not follow common presseetic rules and therefore can easily flinch with claims that just what they write, publish and mean is true. They are not being followed or convicted in the PFU for then having to complain. So they can just say that they're telling the truth. Then we've got a problem, not because traditional media don't have a good idea that someone looks at the world with different eyes than themselves -- it's top of many and different voices, I think absolutely that, but we've got a problem because so many so-called alternative media claim that other media don't speak true. They challenge the editor - controlled press and trust in it, and unfortunately they get hearing in ever - growing circles. Since our democracy is totally dependent on the people having great confidence in the media in order to have an informed and good debate, we are struggling when it comes to rocking the truths we are to be enlightened by. When the population more often and more often experience or get told that news they believe is false, or that campaign journalism disguised as objective news from alternative media appears credible, while the same alternative media claim that editor-directed media do not write the truth – yes, it gets confusing. Suddenly, we can get to a point where the population really doesn't have enough confidence in the media anymore and we're in a situation where we don't have a common point of view for what's true and real of information. How, then, is the policy, the debate, and our democracy going? What informed debate do we get when what we are discussing is not based on a common understanding of the facts? This worries me. And that worries many others. This challenge is addressed in the media communication addressed in the Committee, but there may not be so many specific solutions addressed. That's why I've traveled this interpellation today, where I point out how important it is for the public to have confidence in media journalism to maintain our democracy, and where I ask our media minister how she will help to strengthen confidence in our editor-driven journalism. It is my clear opinion that the system that editor-directed media have worked after, with the Vær Varsom poster, with the Editor's poster and with the Press Professional Committee as a complaint body, has worked very well for many decades. It has provided journalists with ethical guidance to present society-friendly, informative, important and true news to the population – which I think they have basically really succeeded in. The trust in Norwegian media has also been very high. But now it's descending, showed the media survey, which was presented during the Media Days in May. It was found that confidence in the media has fallen from 85 p.m. to 81 pst. in one year. Now this is probably due to more things than the emergence of fake news and alternative media, but the media survey also told us that the whole of 42 pst. The Norwegian media often give an incorrect picture of the Norwegian community, in whole or in part, agreed. And 47 pst. this year versus 41 pst. Last year, the Internet and social media have made traditional media less important for democracy. These aren't very good numbers, I think. So what can we do? I've asked a lot of people in and out of the media industry about the last year. Most people feel discouraged. Some talk about shutting down pages and shutting down social media, others about denying different types of content and turning down much harder on publishing and spreading false news. I believe that shutting down and refusing websites in the name of freedom of expression is not the way to go. So what else can we do? Well, of course, we can work so that the population gets more knowledge about how to reveal ‘fake news’, understand that they are exposed to campaign journalism, or that it is advertising content and not an objective journalistic article they are reading. There is a need, not least in the older garden, for yesterday’s launch of a study by the Media Authority. Half of those over 60 years of age are unable to reveal false news or are unsure whether news is fake, and even those under 30 years of age are struggling. The media surveillance says we need a power cap to increase critical media awareness. Yes, well, I say -- a little uncertain about how, but I know that we've got a teaching system to learn more about revealing 'fake news' to young people between 13 and 18 years of age in school, which I hope works well, from which you might learn, and which can be extended to other groups. Also NRK Super has recently had a greater interest in learning children about critical thinking and fake news, among other things. through the drama series ‘The Hunt for Truth’. I welcome this and think that the NRK should follow up for other groups as well. Both they and other serious media should not be afraid to appear unnecessarily politically correct or self-absorbed if they in the future make more substance on how their own journalism is actually designed according to strict ethical guidelines. But then we have new challenges that come, like "deep fakes," so very advanced manipulation of moving images. This is a technology that Reuters says during the media days that they're trying to reveal. But it's very difficult, because those who want to reveal this kind of "fakes" will always lie a horse's head behind. Initiative as indeed.no I am also pleased. I think that's a matter of fact checking by day. But those kind of fact checkers probably don't care a lot about some alternative media. They just want to say that fact checks are not facts. So in my opinion, it boils down to the credibility of the sender. Is the sender of a film clip or a case credible as a result of the fact that as a reader, listener or titter I know that the sender is serious, editor-in-chief and has a good reputation because they have repeatedly shown that they conduct good and verifiable journalism, then they have great opportunities to maintain my trust. One of the best ways to maintain confidence in editorial media is according to the industry itself, both in hearings and when I have asked them, that they have the opportunity to make really good journalism. The more good disclosures, references, descriptions, reports and stories in the media that set the agenda, the better the situation of people, and the better the policy and political decision-making process, the stronger the people's desire and confidence in the media. So as politicians, how can we help to get more good, thorough and verifiable journalism at a time the media itself describes as critical because they are struggling with ad failure because of Google and Facebook, demanding digitisation and conversion phases, and not least the emergence of ‘fake news’ and alternative media? We in the Family and Culture Committee were in Washington in September and visited Newseum and Freedom Forum. That's where we met the boss, the old newsman Gene Policinski, who is an avid social debater and one of the founders of the United States Today. We got his view of the emergence of alternative media and fake news and the impact on journalism and American society. What he said was not uplifting. What I remember very well was that he said that throughout his life he had been an insistent opponent of press support from the authorities. The independence of the press was the number one – until now, for he thought for the first time that press support would be a good measure also in the United States, at least temporarily. We in the Central Party believe as Policinski that now is the time to actively use the press support as a means of ensuring that the trust and dissemination of serious editors-directed media is maintained – that they do not kiss so much financially that journalism is also destroyed. We believe that, as politicians, we have a responsibility to help strengthen confidence in this journalism and in the sender, and we hope that the Minister for Media, who has the highest responsibility for media policy in the country, agrees – and that she has some good suggestions for how.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2542	The editorial media of journalistic mass media have traditionally been considered a particularly important element of our democratic infrastructure. These media play a central role in the political debate and in the formation of opinions – which is at the heart of our democratic justification for freedom of expression. That is why I am pleased that the representative is promoting an interpellation, so that we can discuss the principles behind this in the Stortinget. In view of the importance of the matter, one should actually expect a step-by-step press release, but it was empty today. The development of new media forms has fundamentally changed the framework conditions for traditional mass media. With a number of new opportunities for communication, everyone can be a publisher today. At the same time, we know that the information we have is not always credible or has the trust or quality on which the informed democratic conversation and the formation of opinion should be based. One of the challenges facing current media use is to distinguish good information from poor, well-founded views from conspiracy theories and balanced representations from pre-conceived opinions. The editor and editor-driven journalistic media have a crucial role to play here. We don't just need a variety of media and journalism. Trust is also necessary. When we make an opinion about politics or other societal issues, the information and perspectives we receive through the media are a central part of our basis of opinion. If we can't trust that the selection and presentation of media issues are relevant, truthful and based on expertise, we lose an important basis for opinion formation and discussion. That we trust that the media are sources of credible information is therefore a prerequisite for the media to carry out its democratic task. If the media are to have a democratic function, they must be independent of the power structures they are to monitor. In addition, the public must have confidence in that independence. Only then can media content provide a basis for free and informed political opinion. This is why editorial independence from authorities is both a political objective in itself and a concern behind the design of the support schemes, legislation and management systems that we have in the media field. Today, we have good measures through media support, both indirect support in the form of VAT exemptions for news media and direct media support. Here the government has already taken action to strengthen Norwegian media. Electronic news media have been exempted from VAT and production grants have been made platform neutral. There have been important measures to improve the conditions for the news media to produce good and thorough journalism. Another measure taken by the government is the establishment of a grant scheme for innovation and development. The aim of this mechanism is to stimulate editorial, content-oriented innovation and to develop news and timeliness media. We see the need for such a system. So we've increased the pot by 3 million. NOK, up to 10 million. kr. In addition, we have an agreement with TV 2. In total, this year we have increased the direct media support by 149.5 million. kr. It is the largest increase in direct media support since the scheme was introduced 50 years ago. Technological and economic developments in the industry have created a growing need for innovation. When disinformation is disseminated through social media, the direct digital presence of traditional media becomes even more important. At the same time, we know that the digital transformation requires financial resources. Therefore, it is gratifying that 98 pst. of the year’s innovation grants have gone to small, local media or to the innovation of local content. Now we want to take action to ensure that we maintain the network we have of local guides, and help to ensure that we have local guides across the country with enough resources to carry out their community mission. In 2018, BI conducted a study on the digitisation of local media use and confidence in different local media. Here, 67 pst. that they had high or very high confidence in their locality. Very few, only 6 pst., replied that they had low or very low confidence in their locality, in NRK district missions and in regional newspapers. These numbers tell us that we have high confidence in the media that is the densest of our everyday lives. However, a local view is not enough in itself. Local newspapers must also have financial and editorial resources to carry out their social mission. We know that there are differences from newspaper to newspaper in the ability to prioritize resource-intensive journalism, whether it is critical and investigative journalism, journalism that explains to us events and subject areas that may be difficult to understand, or the issues that bring new perspectives that are important for public vocabulary. The government wants to bet more on the smaller locals. In 2018, 158 newspapers received press support, but ten of these stacks of farms with two thirds of the pot. I think that challenges the legitimacy of the support system we have. So we're going to make a redistribution into small local newspapers. At the same time, in a transitional phase, we will increase the total appropriations, so that the media that in the future will have to get a little less, give time and opportunity to change. We will also increase predictability by setting the amount of media support for four years at a time. In addition to continuing to work for the continued diversity of media – thematic and geographical – we will work to preserve the media diversity that people trust. The government wants the media to be as independent as possible from political authorities. The media public is a maritime building block in society that should be able to develop on its own premises, without government control. We strengthen the arm's length principle, and I believe that we also strengthen confidence in the media that receive support as independent media. That's why we want to set up a media support council. With such a mechanism, we will strengthen the legitimacy of the grant system and build on the trust in the system and in the media receiving grants. This does not mean, however, that the Media Support Council should have full powers of attorney. The regulatory framework for grant schemes will ensure transparency of the Council's activities and changes to the legislation will have to be sent to consultation, as at present. Last year the government sent out a proposal for a new Media Liability Act. The legislative proposal provides for an update, clarification and consolidation of specific rules on legal liability for the media area and also introduces some new legal provisions. With the new Media Liability Act, the government wants, among other things, facilitating the serious management and control of media, based on media ethics and principles. I believe that the law that supports the editor-driven journalistic media is an important element in fulfilling the state's infrastructure responsibility. Strong and independent media are the best medicine we have against disinformation and hateful statements. Therefore, we should continue to have a media policy that facilitates freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of information, a policy that facilitates good news production across the country, and a wide-ranging public conversation in the digital society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2574	I am very pleased that we have got this discussion – at least between me and the Council of State, and perhaps a few more – for my main goal is to raise the issue. I was excited about the Minister of Culture's answer, because unlike me, she has a department at her disposal that might come up with some extra good advice. I think the Council of State had some action: she mentioned the innovation support and said it has increased the government. I think it might need to be increased further. She talked about the upcoming Media Responsibility Act. I think that might be an important piece of work with regard to some of the issues we're pointing at. When it comes to the Media Support Council, I don't think it's necessarily going to strengthen the confidence of the sender and the editorial media further, because during the hearings all the media were very clear that they have editorial freedom, and that politicians and the issues of arm's length are not a problem now. Having said that, I and the Central Party want us to be even more offensive about these issues, and to contribute to strengthening the serious journalism financially, because then I think we will also ensure that there is better journalism. We would therefore like to take action that the media diversity committee thought might be useful, and will propose exemptions from the employer’s fee when dealing with the media communication – at least we think this should be investigated for journalistic jobs. In the media communication work, we also promote a proposal on what the media wanted, namely a toolbox – perhaps to find out. I hope that we will have a good discussion on this in the committee – the same about looking at how to strengthen the investigative journalism. The committee was in Bergen, in Media City Bergen, last week and was very impressed by the work of the Center for Investigative Journalism in a short time. local viewers. It's a way to really show the people that Norwegian journalism is good, relevant and clear, so they want it. I believe that perhaps even a grant post for serious, investigative journalism is something we in the committee can have the opportunity to discuss and agree on. I wonder if the Council of State seems to me that a potential grant item for investigative journalism and perhaps also to explore a toolbox that the authorities may have in mind if it is going to be even tougher to be media, is something for the Committee to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2585	I want to repeat that I am pleased with this interpellation, and believe that it is very important. One of the challenges in a democracy – which I believe we are being challenged at this very moment – is that there must be some truth. We have to agree that some of the answers actually have two lines below them. I like both journalism and the others who sometimes help to create images for us. So I don't think you should say that you have a negative attitude to all media sails if you sometimes think that they give a wrong picture. I must admit that I also sometimes believe that the media do – that they give an incorrect picture, a wrong angle or the like. But that doesn't mean I don't trust the job they do. This does not mean that I do not believe that what they write that I believe gives a wrong angle to a case is wrong – I think it is just a wrong image you give in that presentation, and a truth consists of all the pictures, including those that you think are taken from a slightly wrong angle. So I think the trust in the media is much bigger than what these measurements sometimes show. What lies at the very heart of Norwegian media policy is the media's own maritime regulation. I think it is very important that we, as politicians, do not go into that role and take over the regulation that has worked so well in the form of a maritime regulation of our media. Internationally, one of the questions I get most as a media minister is what it is like to be a media minister in a country where you run all the media. There are many people who believe that since we have so much noise media support schemes. It's one of the most common questions I get, and then I try to explain that we do it through objective criteria. I believe that organising this in a media support council will make it even easier to explain the arm's length distance that is in media policy. I understand that some of the stakeholder organisations want only the arrangements we have today, with more money, but I think we need to take some action for independence as well. So for what this toolbox should contain: if the representative reads the media message well, she will see that you do not reject the exemption from the employer's fee for all the future, but that you leave it in a toolbox to assess it if there are major changes in this field that require us to look for new tools. I do not reject a grave fund, but digging funds assume that we have a media support council, because then we must have a longer distance from the political decisions. It may not be that the question of excavation funds is settled in the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2600	Let me start with something the Council of State was about in its first article. There are more places than the press release we would like to see more present during this debate. But let me start by thanking the interpellant for raising an important topic in the social debate, a topic that is not least very relevant when we are working with the media message here at Stortinget in these days. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for her good approach to the issues. As they've both been involved, the editor-driven media are the most important supporter of our democratic society, and the media communication is also consistently clear on this. The biggest challenges we face are the struggle for time, the struggle for people's willingness to pay and the fight against the big international muscles of actors such as Facebook and Google. However, I leave those challenges in exactly this post. I want to address three main challenges that we – both politicians and the industry themselves – must take most seriously, and that we can do something about in the relatively short term. Firstly, we need a media policy that contributes to a wide variety of editor-driven media, and a media industry that is capable of innovating and developing, so that they are always relevant and accessible. The media message gives many good answers here. Secondly, industry needs to develop media platforms and instruments that make news interesting for today’s youth. In order to ensure a good word change, we rely on the growing generation to find it attractive to have access to news, in addition to what algorithms offer them. Thirdly, society must enable the oldest part of the population to distinguish real news from fake news. This is, as mentioned, affected in a very fresh report from the Media Authority, and I want to spend some time on this particular group in this post. Half of those over 60 years of age struggle to recognize whether a news item is false or not, shows the survey. We need a power cap to increase critical media understanding among them over 60 years. Critical media understanding is the knowledge and skills the whole population needs to be informed and informed about the media content they consume, store and not least share. In total, there are five findings about the oldest age group that should worry us: Many over 60 years of age have lower digital skills, which are important for critical media understanding. Older people have the lowest understanding of the digital activities that affect the content to which they are exposed. Only three out of ten are able to recognize all the sources in a web search. Half of those over 60 years did not recognize, or were uncertain, whether a news was false or not. The elderly have fewer methods of checking whether a case is false. The elderly are used to dealing with editorial media, where the editorial works according to the Varsom poster and the Editor's poster. Social media, blogs and algorithms, as we know, are not related to such standards, and it can therefore be difficult to know what is true and not in the jungle of information. At the same time, we also know that the elderly are the most news hungry of us, and we must therefore make sure that they are able to separate false news from others. This shows us that the editorial media have a more important role than ever. The Media Communication proposes to establish an independent advice on the distribution of media support. Media support should contribute more to innovation and development in the media industry. An important task for the Council should be to look at how we can address this particular challenge through the various support mechanisms. Many media are already good at innovating to ensure that young people have access to the editorial media diversity. Equally important, it will be to think new about the oldest target population. The government and the municipalities work to roll out Living their whole lives, around the country. Here, for example, it can be done. make sense to raise aspects related to critical thinking and enable the elderly to detect false news as part of the digital training.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2644	I know from journalism that good and critical questions usually lead to good answers. This has also been the case in this context, so I want to join the tribute that has gone to both the inter-pellant and the Council of State – good speeches, important debate. The main capital of the press is without comparison credibility, integrity and trust. And without that, we could just as easily go down. It is quite obvious that this credibility and integrity is being built primarily in editor-driven environments. Norwegian democracy depends on a strong, independent and critical press that people trust. The control function of the fourth state power only operates with full freedom of expression, freedom of the press and editorial freedom. At the same time, the introduction of ‘fake news’ challenges people’s confidence in the media in general. But political control alone is not the answer to this challenge. At the same time, we will follow the most basic principles of a free and independent press. It is clear that the industry's own internal control, through bodies such as the Press Professional Committee, PFU, and the Media Regulatory Board, is more important than ever. I said that the fourth state power control function is not the answer to this alone. I would like to add that with regard to the recent criticism of the media surveillance, there is indeed a misunderstanding of criticism, and those who believe that the media surveillance is an unnecessary institution in our society do not really know anything about the difference between the Press Professional Committee and the responsibility of the media surveillance. It is important to keep the media surveillance system as a safe media monitoring institution, in order to use that concept. Then I'd like to voice the press's criticism of the press itself, as is clear from the Var Varsom poster's point 1.4: "It's the press's duty to put a critical search light on how the media itself plays its social role." That's what we've seen in this six-month period. It's very important, in my opinion, that this role is performed in an even better way. There has been a tendency in the press to protect their own. It has to end, at my discretion. I think more people have got a wake-up message in the last few months. When we turn media support against the small localities, it is about keeping alive the journalism that is most threatened by the major upheavals in the industry – those who have fewer resources and opportunities to change quickly, but who are important to local democracy. They thus retain the power of the editors rather than of unprofessional operators or purely commercial forces. The independence of the press is strengthened by the new media support mechanism because we are introducing a media support council that is moving the decisions relating to funding further away from politicians. It's about taking the freedom of press and editors seriously. Finally, I would like to add that the most important cure for fake news is in school. Source criticism has never been more important, and our children need to acquire knowledge about how to distinguish information that is not credible. It is not just about ‘fake news’, it is also about understanding the difference between press releases and what is real news. One study has shown that very few young people are able to separate one from another. A study from 2018 also shows that there are more concerns about bad journalism than about ‘fake news’. I also think that we should include ourselves in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2663	Thank you to everyone who has been involved and discussed this issue. Although we have a slightly different approach, I feel that most people see that strengthening the editor-driven serious media will be one of the measures to mitigate the negative effects of ‘fake news’ and alternative media. I am pleased to hear that the Minister is not rejecting the introduction of a toolbox or an investigation of temporary exemption from the employer’s fee, nor is she entirely negative to the grant post for investigative journalism – or gravepot, as she called it – although we may disagree with the device. That's fine. I also very much agree with the considerations of the representative Grimstad about why we need the Media Authority, and also about how good it is that our own serious press is doing really good journalism about each other. The representative Tage Pettersen spoke well about the challenges we have with the fact that, in particular, the older garden does not fully understand what is true and not true in the media image. Perhaps the new Media Support Council can contribute to this? I am not so happy with that device, but at least some measures came up here. I'm not sure if that's enough, but I hope so, because it's incredibly important for us that the trust in the sender is not weakened. As I said, the media survey showed that confidence was falling. It's our responsibility, in this room. We're going to conduct media policies to ensure that the critical, free press is well-kept. At least we in the Center Party have to contribute. We believe that given the current situation of the media — they themselves still describe it as a crisis — better conditions are needed, not least economically. So we're going to work for them to get a better financial framework. But when that is said, I also hope that in this room we will jointly find other types of means to stand up to the faulty that is spreading, and the result it can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2678	There has been some kind of pre-post-fection before the processing of the media message. I am pleased with all the parties that have shown commitment here in the debate. Maybe it's a pre-post-fection, so maybe it's possible to get a slightly wider majority behind the media message in important areas, because I think Norwegian media policy actually deserves it. This is going to be a field that is in huge change. We have increased support in a lot of these areas and tried to reorganize it. I think we should rethink this field, because it is a field that is under pressure in many areas, and we must ensure that we have the independence and arm's length distance in media policy that future media solutions require of us. Then it is clear that we politicians can also contribute to the public debate in terms of both the tone we have, the way we talk to each other and the way we relate to the facts. From this pulpit I will never claim that someone is lying, but that you tell half the truth or maybe not as good as listening in debates, that's probably happened. So we all have a challenge to influence the public debate and wish that good journalism is also about producing good facts and good perspectives that contribute to the future debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2687	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2703	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2712	Norway is a port rich in fish resources. It gives us many and important jobs and, not least, it brings great income to our country. In 2018 we exported wild caught fish and fish products for as much as 28 billion. kr. This communication we now have for discussion sets out the fisheries agreements we have concluded for 2019 and the fisheries agreements for 2017 and 2018. It's also worth noting that as much as 90 pst. Of the fishing resources we harvest, we share with other countries. This is interesting reading, and I'll also give praise to the department for having made a very interesting message. I would also like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter, which has also led to a unanimous vote this year. Fisheries agreements shall promote the sustainable management of marine resources, based on the best available knowledge and an eco-based approach. We also need to ensure Norway a fair share of the allocation of allowances for common regulated stocks. And not least: a sustainable harvest also requires that we have control of the fishing. This is challenging and requires a high level of international cooperation. Global overfishing of major fish stocks is a major challenge, and Norway has engaged heavily in international cooperation in the last ten years to ensure sustainable fisheries management. It is important that Norway also prioritises it in the coming years, and it is positive that Norway has taken an active role in international maritime cooperation to manage fisheries and the marine environment. In recent years, marine environmental issues have gained increased interest in the UN General Assembly and also in other global environmental conventions and opinions. Work in progress in international processes on the seas, such as: The annual UN Resolutions on the marine environment and fisheries issues also affect the scope for our own management of resources. It is therefore very important that Norway participates here. When, in 2017, the UN General Assembly passed an initiative to reduce the pollution of plastics at sea, it is an example of such commitment. Another theme on the international agenda is the role of maritime food in food security and nutrition. The world population is increasing, and with this also the need for food is increasing. We need more of the food taken from the sea, we need more of it eating fish. One of the countries with which we have extensive fishing cooperation is the United Kingdom. For this reason, the setting has also focused on how brexit will impact on cooperation in the future, in order to ensure good governance. With this the overall attitude of the Committee is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2731	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and for the work he has done on this matter. Once again, very complex and sensitive negotiating work with many conflicting parties has been completed. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to those involved in the negotiations for once again having managed to carry out this extremely complicated work. And I would like to thank our partners for their seriousness and willingness to find solutions based on historical rights, biological sustainability and a common understanding of nature's possibilities and limitations. Perhaps not all have been equally constructive, it must be said, and it can in the long run threaten the confidence created over the years, which is the basis for a good negotiation process. Nevertheless, it is important to bear in mind that there are large seas and coastal areas on this globe where coastal states are unable to cooperate on management and distribution and where the cod war is a kind of permanent state. For my part, I would like to say that although fishing is not part of the EEA Agreement, there is little doubt that the EU is acting as a block and a single coastal state, making it easier to carry out the negotiations and to be sure of compliance from the countries of Europe. This is fully demonstrated by the introduction of a new negotiating party in relation to brexit. We are aware of the challenges it brings, and are pleased with the transition agreement that is in place. We in the Right will support the negotiated outcome and, as I said, favour those who have negotiated it in line with a strong Norwegian administrative tradition in this area, among others. having regard to the work of Minister for the Law of the Sea Jens Evensen and the principles underlying the establishment of 200-mile exclusive economic zones. We will strongly warn against rocking on their historical basis. We also stress the importance of caring for Norwegian fishing interests in the Norwegian positions in relation to Brexit, i.e. if, when, where and what brexit becomes or does not become. I think that a natural starting point is, in any case, that there won't be any more fish of discharge, and that applies to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2742	It's been many years since there's been a big discussion about the annual review of Norway's fisheries agreements, and I'm not going to make it a big discussion today either. The SV and the Central Party have raised a fundamental discussion in the setting up of the exchange relationship issue linked to the third country's quota, with the EU in particular. I just have to explain it to the assembly. From the target band to the fishing quota, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea comes first with its recommendation on the tolerance of the different species of fish, and nations negotiate the allocation of the total quota to the countries on the basis of that Council. Then, at a later stage, this is distributed among the various groups of vessels. But before this happens, before a benefit to the groups of vessels, an agreement is reached with the EU on the exchange of fish. In short, it has been Norwegian practice to give up cod, which coastal fishermen can fish, and to replace species that can benefit only parts of the sea-going fleet. Why is it problematic? Yes, because we have rungs in this country for how, among other things. the cod shall be distributed, the so-called trawl trail, which, in short, implies about 30 pst. shall be taken from the seagoing fleet and the rest, 70 pst., shall be taken from the coastal fleet. When the fish are taken before distribution, that means that an actual rocker is at the root of Norwegian fishing. It is problematic when such a large part of the cod is given to the EU, and the only ones that can benefit from it are the ocean-going fleet. It's problematic, and what I think undermines the Norwegian system we've built up over time. In principle, we believe that if we are to have a proper understanding of what the beam path covers, it must of course cover the entire Norwegian total quota on cod. One can't take anything first, distribute, and then just stick to what's left to distribute as part of this. I see that some in the setting are trying to make a point that this criticism is rocking the EU's contractual relationship. It has nothing to do with it. We recognise that we are in a trading relationship with the European Union. We've been doing that for a long time, and there are long historical reasons for it. That's how one organizes this exchange relationship on the Norwegian side we think is contrary to the basis for the distribution between the fleet groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2753	Initially, I had not intended to take the floor in the matter, but as SV and the Central Party also have a different input, I would like to keep my post, not least in order to open the door so that you can take a line in this regard, and have that debate taken. The fishing industry is of great importance to Norway. In 2018, Norway exported wild caught fish and fish products for record billion 28 billion. kr. Sustainable management of marine resources contributes to ensuring robust fish stocks and value creation along the coast. Sustainable management of marine resources contributes – as I said – to creating great values and many jobs. We all agree that Norway should continue to play an active role in international maritime cooperation, both in the development of international legislation and in the management of fisheries and the marine environment. Maritime issues have increased interest in the UN General Assembly, in global organisations and in opinion. The work in progress in international processes, such as the UN's annual resolutions on seas and fisheries issues, also affects the space for action of our own marine resource management. It is therefore important that Norway participates in this area. We are being listened to in international forums because we have found a good balance in our exploitation of living marine resources. We promote the message of sustainable use and show in practice that it is the best way to maintain a living, productive ecosystem. All fisheries management must be based on scientific advice. The member of the Committee from SV considers it problematic that Norway will switch the species of fish on which the smaller fleet groups can fish against the species of fish that are inaccessible to these groups. The members of the Committee of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left believe that when exchanging fishing quotas, we should take into account that ‘the fish to be exchanged can be fished as much as possible by the same groups of vessels as the fish to be exchanged’. The system of quota exchange through negotiations with other countries dates from the 1970s, when coastal states established their economic zones. Since then, Norway has been aiming to protect its interests in the areas of quota-exchange negotiations in other countries. It's not like we're swapping someone's quotas, but we have a quota exchange to maintain our traditional fisheries along the coasts of other countries. Fishing on the quotas we receive in other zones involves long-distance transport under some severe weather conditions, and it is difficult to imagine smaller vessels participating in such fisheries. Unutilised third country quotas go back to the Norwegian available quota in the fisheries concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2771	Our trading relationship with the EU stems from the fact that a connected 200-mile zone and connected to trawl fishing for a long time, etc. So I think everyone in this room here is some of that we're going to have a byte ratio. The question is how a principle should organise the exchange relationship on the Norwegian side. So, who's going to take the money for it? In principle, we have a distribution of cod quotas in Norway which is such that most of them are to be fished by coastal fisheries, because cod is a coastal species. But when this is taken from the total quota, that means that one actually takes fish from coastal fishing to a greater extent than from a seagoing fleet, that is, one undermines what is the ray path. Does the Council of State see the fundamental issue around this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2778	No, because we don't specifically take from the coastal cod. We don't go in and say we're getting from it and that fleet. To inform the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, I can say the following: Last year we replaced blue-grass, broad-flab, brittle, haze, long, shrimp, sea crayfish, cod and other fish species with the EU. In addition, we switched to blue whiskers, blue lings, brosms, sea breezes, horse mackerel, colloidal, long, solder, shrimp, sieving, sole, schooling, oars, oars and other fish species from the EU. So we're doing it with a number of different kinds of fish. It's true that cod is one of the major parts, and that's why we've done it so that if we don't have trading conditions like each other, we don't have to replace them. Last year we just got into such a situation where the so-called third country quotas did not meet the criteria we had set, and thus some were brought back to the very group that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes has addressed, namely the open group.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2785	I assume that what the council finally meant was that it goes back to the distribution key of each group. That illustrates the problem. This is fish there, if he had been to distribute, about 70 pst. had gone to the coastal fleet and 30 pst. to seagoing fleet. But when this is taken out, it means that it's those who can use what we get back into the exchange with the EU, who are thinking about this exchange rate. In other words, if third countries fish the whole quota they've been allocated to, the only way we can get it back is that ocean-going fleets go west of the British islands, or where these species are, and fish it. So the principle here that one should have the same -- one gear and get the same thing back -- is going to be broken. It's also in conflict with the Ray Trail. Does the Council of State see that issue or just choose to ignore it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2792	It's not in conflict with the beam ladder. In the case of those allowances, the third country allowances, first of all, are taken from the top and that which is not used is returned to the top. We have prepared accounts for last year, 2018, and 3710 tonnes of unused third country quotas for cod went to the open group to balance on the open group overfishing of cod in 2018. While 1,549 tonnes were distributed to all the vessels and returned to the top. So we keep this in the best possible way to ensure that Norwegian vessels have a good trading relationship with the EU, so that we get paid in the same way that we have to give up. I also believe that this makes sense in terms of negotiations and the way we dispose of our resources in the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2798	To ask the question this way: is there any of what we change and get from the EU that the traditional coastal fleet can fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2803	I'm not going into the individual fishes here and now. I said in my post from the pulpit that very much of this fishing is fishing that the smaller vessels do not have access to, because of the distances. But it has nothing to do with us breaking the jet path. It simply has to do with us being dependent on having an exchange relationship with other countries, so that we have access to their economic zone, just as they have access to our economic zone. Here we swap different kinds of fish in order to be able to fish. That is why we in the ring note and pelagic sector have access to, among other things. European Union industry. Then we'll get away from it when it's fishing there. Similarly, they can switch to some cod. So you're aware of it: the actual quota value that was exchanged for us was 20 million. kr in deficit last year on paper, with 663 million. kr related to the EU and 642 million. kr to us. However, there were several of these that the EU was unable to benefit from, and that brought it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2810	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2817	I feel here that it is spoken as if one can unilaterally from the Norwegian side determine which fish species are to be replaced. As regards this process and its historical background, one must first remember that this exchange ratio was established before the beam path existed. It also means that saying that it is contrary to the beam path is a bit of a special device. It's not that there are no historical rights from then on. This is a result of the agreement we made when we introduced 200-mile zones, which was essentially an agreement that was beneficial to Norway, also in view of the fishing laws that are fished by the coastal fleet. In this way, I think you should think that it's not like we can ignore the historical rights, including the fishing teams, that exist in this system, without thinking about others. This applies to both ways – for both us and those we trade with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2822	I don't think I'm going to draw out this discussion, but it doesn't seem that the representative Nilsen has understood what the discussion is about. We're quite a few: we're going to have a byte ratio. This is about how the burden is distributed on the Norwegian side. I repeat: this is about how the burden is distributed on the Norwegian side. I could say it several times, but I'm not sure it's slipping in. That's the question: when you switch to a species of fish that can only be used by a seagoing fleet, and to gain access to that fish, a fish that the coastal fleet has access to changes, the question is whether there is an uneven burden, because only part of the Norwegian fleet has access to it a switch to it. There's a fundamental discussion, and there's something we can sort out completely on the Norwegian side, in our ways of organizing fishing. And our ways of organizing fishing are, among other things. that the cod is mainly to be fished coastally. When the byte ratio ignores how we organize this, I think we have a fundamental problem. I repeat: it has nothing to do with the historical trading relationship with the EU. It has to do with how we organize the burden relationship internally when we're going to do this on the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2829	The representative, Tom-Christer Nilsen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2834	Yes – and that was the basis for the Finnmarks model, as it was basically established when it was created. When it was made, this exchange ratio was also part of the calculation. That means that what we are talking about here, both that part of the exchange relationship with the EU, and that representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes is now discussing the relationship between fleet groups in Norway, was part of the big compromise that became the Finnmarks model. It was there, and it is still there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2855	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2864	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. This has been a simple matter to be a spokesman for. The Committee strongly agrees that there is a need to establish stricter responses to illegal fish exports. Then after the proposal came forward, some things also happened. Among other things, the Riks lawyer has been in contact with all the police districts and surveyed the situation, and one has taken the initiative to increase the fines, so that they can have a more preventative effect. Then there's a discussion in the setting whether one should go further, and how far one should go. Here the opposition believes that one has to go further than today with different types of measures, including. increase control to detect illegal exports of fish. We keep getting reports, customs takes some samples that show that there are probably far more illegal exports of fish than what we have an overview of. Moreover, in the opposition, we also want to increase the penalty level for illegal fish exports, so that one gets an even more severe preventive effect. We also want the government to come back with a matter of tourist fishing to get more organized and organized relationships. With that, I would like to address the proposals of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2875	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2880	Coastal tourist fishing has increased significantly in recent years, and many tourism businesses are targeting this market. Fisheries and tourism are two important future industries for Norway, and the Workers' Party believes that the coast and fish are important tourism products, where we use both the coast and our fjords to create important jobs. However, it is also important that we make demands and ensure that tourism fishing takes place within a sustainable framework. I want to commend the centre party for promoting the proposal, which is about increasing the fines for the illegal export of fish. It is an overall committee that states that we must ensure that the operation of tourist fishing facilities is serious and responsible and that the framework can help to stop resource crime. We have to admit that we don't have enough control, and we see too much fish being taken out of the country by foreign tourists. Many of those who are caught at the border with too much fish in the cargo are probably not common tourists either. We have to sort that out. We've been talking about it for a long time, but the measures taken are not enough. The working party is busy that we use 100 pst. of the fish in the industry. Then it's a paradox to hear about tourists standing on the berth or in the boat throwing raw material, large parts of the fish, right in the sea. It is a waste of resources that is not acceptable. We're proud of the fish, and we have to put our foot down for this. According to the existing legislation, 10 kilograms of fish or fishery products may be taken from own fishing off Norway. If it is fished under the control of a registered fishing establishment, the quota is 20 kilograms. While the Committee has dealt with this matter, the Advocate General has proposed to double the rates from NOK 4000 to NOK 8000 and, furthermore, a rate of DKK 100 to SEK 200 per kilogram to ensure an adequate preventive effect. The justification is a study conducted by the Riksadvokat in all the police districts to map the current rates of fines for the illegal export of fish. The Labour Party supports it, but we do not think it is enough. We think the rates should be at a much higher level where the export of fish has a professional character. We also see that in several places. Penalties and detection risks must be at a level that ensures that the preventive effect is real. Therefore, there is a need both to strengthen control and to increase the frequency of controls in order to detect illegal exports of fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2899	This is a matter where there is a great deal of consensus across all the party boundaries that we want to deal with this in a good and restrictive way. First of all, tourist fishing is a very positive thing. There is value creation on land, where fish are further processed, and there is overnight accommodation and turnover for local travel establishments and establishments. It is experience tourism, and properly managed, it is a sustainable tourism that brings both great and good experiences and income to the community based on local resources. As for everyone else, fishing and fishing luck also varies for tourists, but it is often the most expensive fish coming out of the sea in connection with the fishing of these tourists, and they have paid dearly for each kilogram. Lack of control and unprofessional actors can threaten any industry, including this one. Resource control is in focus, but it is also important that these companies and their customers have a regulatory framework that allows both us and them to know that business is taking place within a sustainable and secure framework. We are not interested in any repetition of the trophy hunters of colonial times and the burden of species. Therefore, it is important to have a limit on how much can be taken, and severe consequences are important if too much is taken, even above the border. I am pleased that the level of penalties for infringements of these restrictions is lifted. The violation of borders is environmental crime, and I think they're approaching a reasonable level, but I don't mind, of course, if the National Attorney should find out that we should adjust these rates even more. I would like to point out that when this is characterised by professional fishing activities, there are also other regulations that enter and can be used. The distinction between registered and unregistered fishing is also important to maintain. We live in a country where anyone can rent a room and pull out a string. These are values we want to have in the future as well. Allemannsrecht is an important foundation of the Norwegian jurisprudence and culture. Therefore, it is important to distinguish between the exploitation and use of all-man rights and the over-taxation of natural resources. When the rights of all-persons are violated, it is our right and our duty to respond. There are quite a number of questions and there is a lot of discussion about what's going on in tourist fishing, like in other fisheries. I want to focus on increased control and rigorous responses to infringements of the law. Should that not be deterrent enough, I will not exclude further tightening of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2916	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the examination of the case of increased fines for the illegal export of fish. According to the existing legislation, 10 kilograms of fish or fishery products may be taken from own fishing off Norway. If it is fished under the control of a registered fishing establishment, the quota is 20 kilograms. In 2018, the quota allocated to a registered fishing establishment was increased by the current government, in order to improve the overview of the total number of tourists fishing for our common fishing resources, together with a reporting system for catches. The new provisions were introduced to increase awareness of the extent of tourist fishing. There was an increasing demand from industry itself and other stakeholders that some form of regulation was needed. The new provisions provide, inter alia, for: a better overview of the resource take-off and help strengthen the legitimacy of the tourist fishing industry along the coast. Sea fishing tourism is a highly growing industry that contributes to employment, value creation and coastal settlement, based on local advantage. We must then ensure and support those who carry out this activity seriously and responsibly, and ensure that the framework contributes to the cessation of resource crime. Tourist fishing must be allowed to grow, but under good control and regulation. I am pleased with the position taken by the Minister for Fisheries – that any form of fishing crime should be detected and punished. The government has worked actively to combat fishing crime, and in the government platform it has been clear that we need to step up the fight against illegal fishing and other fishing crime. This also applies to tourist fishing. It is an important management of resources that good controls are available to detect the illegal export of fish and that there is a level of fine that has sufficient preventive effect. The National Attorney General has conducted investigations and has been in contact with all the police districts to monitor the current fines on illegal exports of fish. It is positive that the Riksadvokat believes it is time for a change of these rates, in line with the government's policy. I refer to the letter of 25 April 2019, where the lawyer informs about the decision to double the rates with immediate effect, so that a new fine level is 8 000 kroner and the minimum rate plus 200 kroner per kilogram of fish. Then I would like to stress that if exports are linked to professional fishing and export, other penalties will also be applicable. The increased focus that the government and the fisheries minister have had on fishing crime is very positive. I think that is also the view of the Central Party when they promote document proposals in political areas that the government is already delivering on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2931	Sea fishing festivals are a well-known concept for many. Even I was there and started a festival 30 years ago, and since then this has been an annual event. The reason for the festival was that one wanted tourists to the municipality, and one wanted to show how nice one had it: big fish, lots of fish and nice boats. The work on this happened in collaboration with the village, and everyone was involved. The idea was that tourist fishing was to be an interaction between local and rural tourism actors, with rudders, hotels and vacant houses, and not least I saw that fishing tourism was to be in cooperation with local fishermen – this in order to strengthen the conditions for fishermen, who had gradually, at that time, become more difficult. What made it difficult to use local fishermen in such a scheme was the issue of certification. It was too complicated for fishermen to get the boats approved to go out to sea with tourists. In order to do this, it is necessary to facilitate certification of boats in order to carry out such additional work. Then you'll be able to get most of the freezing box tourism, where tourists come to Norway and get fish home without spending so much on the communities they visit. After a few years, the travel businesses in the municipality woke up, and we got fishing tourism. What happened then was that you bought your own boats that you rented to the tourists, without these restrictions that the fishermen had. Getting a big fish is something a lot of wants, and it's just nice, but you're well now experiencing that many people are just out to pick up a lot of fish to bring along the best piece of fish and dump the rest. As it is now, many tourists come to a village and fish almost 24 hours a day. In addition, the file is cut nearly at all times of the day. The locals don't like this because it happens all the time, and they like it when people go to sleep. Sometimes there are unimaginable quantities of large fish coming on board. And when you know that you're not allowed to bring so much when you're leaving the country, many people wonder, is this a fishing business?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2942	There's a lot of agreement on this, so the government also delivers in this area. But in any case, I think it is good that the centre party takes up the matter, and we also have the opportunity to have a discussion about it. There is no doubt that the representative Adelsten Iversen has had a great commitment to this for a long time, and I think that is good, because although there is a great deal of consensus here, there is no doubt that tourist fishing also has positive dimensions, which also Adelsten Iversen was inside – as it was really supposed to be. Because this has a dimension of local value creation out in the districts, there's no doubt about it, and not least the interaction to make this work. But then there are some places where there is some lack of control. It clearly shows the government that they want to do something about it, also by increasing the fines where this is driven as a semi-functional company where fish are transported out. It's about balance, but it's also about how we can get good enough governance. I believe that preventive measures are necessary to show that there is a restrictive approach to this, because, as many people have been in the past, environmental crime that needs to be dealt with. The council has a full focus on it, so I feel calm, but nevertheless I fully agree with what the representative Adelsten Iversen refers to here, also through his long-term involvement in this area, especially in Finnmark, that freight cars are running this out of the country. It wasn't like that, it's not supposed to be that way, so it's also important that we have a clarity on this. And if it turns out that it's necessary for us to tighten up further, I'm not going to oppose it, then I'm actually going to cheer it up, because I think that just that interaction will be the best both for the tourist industry and not least for the districts that have this. And I think this hall is ready to do, if this is going to degenerate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2953	Leisure fishing is an important activity for recreation and nature experiences for many residents of Norway. Fishing like food and recreation is so strong in our country that it must be called part of the Norwegian cultural heritage. Leisure fishing as part of the rights of all persons is also an important promotional element for the tourism industry in the marketing of the tourist country of Norway. Nevertheless, it is easy to forget that extensive tourist fishing also involves significant and sustained taxation of Norwegian fishing resources. There are not certain figures on how much is being fished by Norwegian and foreign recreational fishermen in a year. However, an article in the Fisheries Bulletin of 13 May last year referred to a report ordered by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries in 2005 which estimated the sum of all tourist and recreational fishing for each of the previous two years to be between 50000 and 65000 tonnes. Since then, tourist fishing has had an explosive development along the coast, so that today we may be talking about as much as 100,000 tonnes of fish that are being fished completely unregulated and uncontrolled, and that are in addition to the recommended total fishing of our populations, especially coastal cod, screech and halibut. By comparison, the Norwegian total quota for North-East Arctic cod in 2019 is about 313 000 tonnes. Therefore, in view of the sustainable management of coastal Norwegian fishing resources, it is important that we have strict and clear legislation regulating the export of fish and fishery products from recreational fishing. A broad majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, points to the need for increased control in order to detect the illegal export of fish. The same majority refers to the importance of the monitoring work currently being carried out by the Marine Research Institute in relation to the resource withdrawal from recreational fishing. Furthermore, the Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre point out that, in April of this year, the Riksadvokat doubled the minimum rate of fines for the illegal export of fish and points to the lifting of the fines as an important measure to regulate the illegal export from tourist fishing. Like the other government parties, the Christian People's Party believes that a strong increase in fines, recently implemented for those who had to be controlled, is initially a clear and effective signal that must be expected to give a deterrent effect. However, it is important that the level of fines in the coming years be adapted to future price and cost increases, so that the effect is not weakened over time. We feel confident that the Department and the Council of State will follow up the comments of the majority of the Committee on the need for increased control, and that sanctions other than fines may be applicable if exports are detected on the basis of professional fishing and exports. The Christian People's Party also refers to the Granavolden platform, which states that the government will step up the fight against illegal fishing and other fishing crime. We will therefore vote against the opposition's proposals in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2971	In the last ten years, tourism fishing has been facilitated by the emergence of tourism businesses along the coast. While maintaining coastal tourism, this increased activity puts greater pressure on our fishing resources. There has been a need for more knowledge of the maritime resource take-off to which the tourist fishing industry contributes and, unfortunately, there has been too little overview of this activity. This is precisely why the government put in place new rules for tourism fishing from 1 January 2018. These rules help to strengthen the legitimacy and seriousness of the tourism industry along the coast. The aim is to get a better picture of the resource take-off that comes from tourism fishing. The tourist fishing industry has a significant added responsibility to contribute to awareness-raising information to its guests on Norwegian conditions, rules, laws and expectations. It is very unfortunate that fish are smuggled out of the country. This is both economic crime and environmental crime. It undermines control of the resource take-off from the sea and destroys for the serious part of the tourist fishing industry. That is why I welcome the decision of the Advocate General to increase the fines for illegal fishing. It has been decided with immediate effect that the rates in force should be doubled. That means that the minimum rate will be a fine of NOK 8 000, and then the fine will increase by NOK 200 per kilogram of fish or fish product. This will be noticed. Clearly, it is a challenge for foreigners to come to Norway with a goal of taking the most fish out of the country to achieve their own profits. Such tourist fishermen are not what Norway needs. I believe that the doubling of the fines will help to reduce the smuggling of fish, but if this proves not to be sufficient, I intend to follow this matter very closely. I don't accept fishing crime, whether it's professional practitioners who do it, whether it's tourists who do it, or whether there's others who do it. This is something to be combated all around the coast, and I'm going to follow this work carefully. I will also be responsible for the travel businesses that have a responsibility to inform about the conditions that result from operating this type of activity. Yes, we should also have more controls; yes, we must also provide good information; and yes, I intend to follow those who cheat and do this crime. For none of us serves it, and in addition, what has to do with our universal rights is to be able to move in the rocks, to be able to operate recreational fishing, to be tested by those who commit crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2984	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2989	It is polite and interesting to hear an offensive fisheries minister in the pulpit. The problem is that a person wants to ‘follow’ those who commit crime, as well as to become words in this room, while it may not be perceived out there. The main problem, of course, is that there's too little control, there's too little follow-up, and there's too few people being taken. Nor will the level of the fine be particularly dissuasive. My question is really very simple. How does the Minister for Fisheries intend to follow up those who commit both economic and environmental crimes of this dimension, as he himself points out in his speech?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2994	First of all, I want to do it through dialogue with, among other things, the departments which are to exercise the control effectively. It is up to customs, tax authorities, etc., who are right under another Council of State, but it is also up to this Council of State to take care to point out the issues. In addition, we want to have a dialogue with the fishing companies that have registered to ensure that it is that activity and that it is done properly. Furthermore, the Marine Research Institute is already monitoring the level associated with the extraction of biomass that comes into fish, both in the north, in Hordaland and in Oslofjorden. There are many types of measures. In addition, we look at how we can do things to the so-called fish camps that are not under control. It's quite obvious that we have a potential to make sure you get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e2999	It's nice to hear about dialogue with the tax and customs authorities, and that one follows up the companies, but something more concrete? When the Council of State says that he is going to follow this crime, it will be important for the Storting to know what he is actually doing, because there is a very clear majority in the vote that says that you need to strengthen control – not just dialogue, but control needs to be strengthened. We also have a proposal on voting, which the majority unfortunately do not support. I would like to ask again how to intensify control directly against those who commit this type of serious both economic and environmental crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3004	Now it is not the Minister for Fisheries himself who is going to check out, there are other agencies that are doing it, and I expect that work to be done. Firstly, the fines are now significantly increased. Secondly, new rules have already been introduced, as from 1 January 2018, in relation to the enterprises operating such activities. It has to be followed up with these companies. In addition, it goes without saying that as far as the proposal representative is concerned, about increasing the focus on this, I will come back to it as we get an overview of these things. Let's first get the knowledge out there, and then we take steps to see what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3009	The law on tourist fishing says that one gets to take 10 kg and 20 kg of fish out of the country. This is often the kilogram being extracted in the form of the file. The size has not been once, not twice, but three times a decision has been made to convert it into round fish. Then, in fact, is my question: Is the Council of State going to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3014	The government believes that the law that is there today is good enough. As for how much fish you can take with you, the Stortinget – it was back in 2014–2015, I don't remember the date, it's at least a few years back – has given some opinions on it. If the Storting decides to do so, any government sitting there will do so, but I believe that the current legislation is sufficient to capture what is associated with the withdrawal. So the first thing we have to do is look at how, for example, The fines work, if you get control of the situation, and how large the withdrawal is, because we have far too little information about the level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3019	If a person takes 20 kg of fine fillet of cod out of the country, my question to the Minister for Fisheries is: What does he think about the rest of the fish? Is it in line with the principle that we want to exploit the whole fish, and that we should take care of the resource that fish is?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3024	No, unfortunately I think there's a lot of fish being thrown, and I want you to get control of it. I think that's the first thing to do when you get an overview of the size of this fish, that you have a dialogue with the renter, and you make sure you get good information. I also think that unfortunately there are many of those who are out there and who are doing this, who are not aware of the legislation that is really there. They come, they hire a cabin, there may be a boat with a hanging engine attached to the cabin, and then they go out to fish. We have seen that accidents occur in connection with this due to a lack of information, a lack of boat knowledge, etc. I think we have a way to go. We have to do that through the serious actors, and then we get to grips with those who are not serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3029	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3037	I am very pleased that, after our proposal was promoted, the Advocate-General has decided to double the fines with immediate effect. I am also pleased with the Committee's willingness to increase control, in order to contribute to the cessation of resource crime. Both professional fishermen and neighbours of unprofessional fishers have reacted to a resource use that is both unethical and illegal. It was said from the pulpit in this matter from one of the representatives of the Progress Party that the Central Party is promoting proposals that the government is working on. But as we promoted this proposal, there was nothing to suggest that a change was similar around the corner. On the contrary, all three Norwegian county councils had requested action in this matter. So I think this proposal was really in place. Fishing tourism must be operated seriously, and there must be positive ring-effects along the coast. But I record that the willingness to meet these objectives exists in the whole committee, so I especially want to point to minority proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought back with measures to ensure serious tourist fishing and to combat resource crime related to recreational fishing.’ One of the important things that needs to be put in place is to have a system of approval for sea fishing tourism, to support the serious actors that provide real coastal value creation. This also means local ring effects for the pub, the grocery store and the local population. The centre party is quite clear that we want to have a tourist fishing industry that is an even bigger contributor when it comes to local and regional value creation, employment and housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3051	I'm using the time I have the opportunity to talk about this. I am very pleased with what the Minister for Fisheries said. This indicates that he takes this seriously, and that he is going to follow it up. The number of tourist fishing boats has grown. As a rule, hotels or travel establishments own these vessels. Usually it's good that tourists themselves go out to sea without guides, but it happens that there are accidents, and not long ago we had such an accident. Most travel businesses have good control procedures, while others do not. Cutting fillets of a fish is often an art. I must regret to say that the way many tourists cut fillets is shameful. Here it should be mandatory for anyone who wanted to cut themselves. I believe that all the fish should have been delivered to the dock, and that the tourists who wanted fish when they traveled could have bought fish from the fish farm. This can easily be done. It is likely that a regulation on tourist fishing should be put in place that can all be agreed upon. As it is now, I feel that tourist fishing is a mockery of the traditional fishing we have in Norway. Local fishermen who have fished their quotas now have to stand by and watch tourists fish around the clock without being stopped. As I said, I believe that all the fish are going on land and are being pre-capped on the fish farm, and then you get to buy the fish you are allowed to bring with you when you leave. One should regulate tourist fishing better, and one should allow fishermen in an easy way to take tourists out to sea – and when I say fishermen, I mean the professional fishermen, who have suitable boats, and who can carry fishermen at sea. I think it is good that the NHO wants you to take those who smuggle fish, and what I have experienced myself, is that you almost weekly see cars driving with fillets out of our municipality. Clearly, that is not good, and that suggests that it is an industrial fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3064	Illegal tourist fishing and, insofar as illegal recreational fishing is also not a discussion of a new date, on the contrary, it has been for quite many years. The problem is only growing, despite the fact that a person has taken different measures. New measures have been introduced from 1 January 2018, but nothing very clearly indicates that they have very good effect, at least. On the contrary, there is a good discussion on whether this is not the case with the illegality of tourist fishing continues in the same pattern as before. After all, we do not want to make it more difficult for those who operate seriously – on the contrary – it is a quality, and it is an opportunity for economic development and activity along the coast. But we have to get rid of illegal tourist fishing, and that is the main problem. Then there is no doubt that it is the control function that is absolutely essential. Among the new measures introduced last year, there is no direct increase in control, there is no significantly greater risk of being taken if one wishes to operate illegally. I think that's a little bit of a problem. To the Workers' Party's entrance to this case: We have been to the whole setting except where the government parties boast of the government statement. We are involved in everything because we believe it is important that the Storting gathers around something that everyone perceives is both economic and resource crime that we want to live on. Then I'm a little surprised at the first not to hear more clearly – let's say – visions from the Minister for Fisheries about how he wants to strengthen control and actually take those who are involved in illegalities. I'm a little surprised at that. It's okay with dialogue and fine words and tough words from the pulpit, but how he really will follow it up, it's hard to see. I am also a little surprised at the government parties when they vote against the three proposals that have been put forward, in particular that one should decide that one wants to strengthen control. We really agree on that in this Chamber. I believe that the discussion here and the experience very clearly shows that we needed to have a case of our own, precisely to put the framework around measures to bring up the seriousness both in tourist fishing and in recreational fishing. But unfortunately, it does not want the government parties. They seem to believe that they have full control of this issue, which I regret to think they do not have at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3077	A little bit to the representative of Aasland: the authorities have been aware of the challenge of breaching export quotas. The Directorate of Fisheries cooperates with the customs, tax, police and Food Administration, where illegal fish exports form part of this broader control focus – and this is where it lies. Here, we need to ensure good cooperation between the various agencies to detect the crime that is taking place. I guess that's the criminal part of the activity we want to discover. There have also been issues related to resource withdrawals. There I fully agree, and I am concerned that you should take advantage of the whole fish. This is what I say on all the lectures I have around these topics. Here I am convinced that the tourist fishing industry not only can, but must get better. Here you can cooperate with local fish recipients, with local farms, etc., who can actually make a product out of the residue of the fish, so that we destroy the least possible fish in our eagerness to bring out just the fillets, which I think is a udder. Furthermore, it is not small things introduced in the framework of the legislation that entered into force on 1 January 2018. A registration related to the tourist fishing activity was introduced. The export quota was changed: 20 kg in the case of registered holdings and 10 kg in the case of own fish. This was the way to ensure that those who were not registered had a lower export quota. The trophy fish system has been removed. In addition, the export quota was changed from 24 hours to 7 days – all to limit and reduce the illegal part of it. I have said that if these measures do not prove to be sufficient, we need to come back to new measures to ensure that we have control of the situation. That's what I'm trying to say all the time. I stand for that, and we have to deliver on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3088	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3106	It's blown up to storm in the wind power debate in the last few months, and there's strong feelings on all sides. Some of us have been in the storm, but more of us need enough to breathe a little bit more with our stomachs when we talk about wind power. A few weeks ago, the Committee on Energy and the Environment was travelling to learn more about how we can go even further in the field of climate – how we can build green and profitable industries, and how we can learn from what they do in other countries. We came home with a lot of useful knowledge, but the most important thing – and we're all going to take it with us, regardless of party – is that Norway is already the world's best country in terms of climate. And it was just supposed to be missing. With the story we have in our back pocket about fossil energy, I think we sometimes forget that we need to do an extra amount in the climate field. We're already doing a great job, and we can be proud of what we've gotten together so far. But we're far from the goal. We have to go further, and we have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. Because a climate policy that takes us back to the past is no use – yes, almost all the way back to when the fossils lived in the best of order. We need a modern and sustainable climate policy, which also ensures something to live on in the future. Norway has opted for oil. We live in one of the richest countries in the world, among others. Because we've been surfing the fossil wave. That is why we have an extra responsibility as we face the climate struggle of the times. The Earth is a mutilation, and our children march in the streets to make us in this house wake up. We see the changes here in Norway: it is warmer, wetter and wilder weather, and there are fewer skis this year because the snow disappears. There has been more rain, storm and drought, and the sewer pipes, which have had the right size for 100 years, now flood in Norway, and bacteria flow into several waters. It makes people sick, and that means that our tax money has to be used to replace today's pipes and to build better sewage systems, so the water still has to be drinkable. Climate change is here, and we have to act, including: by expanding renewable energy – water, wind and sun. Now that wind power has been blowing on land, many of us have wanted more politicians far at sea. Of course, we listen to that. Norway has been working with sea wind for quite a long time, but the time has come to step up the effort and insert an extra gear, and here the government has to sit in the driver’s seat. As the world's best offshore, Norway has an enormous potential for bet on sea winds, but we have to keep our tongues straight in the mouth. Our beautiful, long-haul coast is not very long-haul, which means that there is no bottom-water wind we should bet on. Floating sea winds, on the other hand, we have a comparative advantage to operate with. Bottom sea winds are logically limited enough by depth and, if the installation is liquid, a larger market for sea wind is opened. By going further at sea you can also build in areas with even more wind, and we get even more power out of each installed megawatt. It offers the opportunity to cut emissions, while at the same time ensuring Norwegian offshore supply industry in the future. Norway has strong competence and tradition for maritime offshore value chains that can be easily transferred to renewable offshore industries. Simply put, we have a pretty good idea of making money on floating dolls along our coast. Marine wind will cut emissions, create jobs, and it has the potential to be a value-creating technology export. Because this is primarily about – the export of technology we are developing, just as other offshore and subsea industries are already doing. We can do this in Norway. Marine wind investment must bring forward new technologies and more than one supplier. The initiative needs to stimulate competition in order to reduce costs, and cost reduction requires sufficient volume, such as: at Equinor's Hywind Tampen. I'm very glad that the blue-green government is betting on floating sea winds, but I'm impatient. This is not going fast enough, we have to put in place the proposal for the way in which concessions are to be granted, and the areas in question, before the summer. It's great that there's already a chance for smaller demo parks, but we have to think bigger. This has the potential to become one of Norway’s largest exports. Norway has a unique opportunity to take a leading role internationally if we focus on tomorrow’s solutions today. Many countries, including Norway, as we have seen recently, have land conflicts related to wind power on land. Liquid sea winds can be a good way for several countries to secure energy supply and reach their climate commitments. This is a win-win for both Norway and the world. This means that the regulations for opening and granting concessions must be in place. This means that Enova must bet, and that means Norwep and Innovation Norway must be on the ball. That means we have to have more demo parks, and that means we have to facilitate stronger clusters. For sea wind today is expensive, very expensive. That's why it's so crucial to bring down costs and profitability. We must have good incentives on the research side, and we must have good marketing backing. Should sea wind become the adventure we dream of, we must be clear that this is something we want, not just because it is a little uncomfortable with debates about wind power on land, but because we actually want to continue to be a leading nation on offshore installations, installations that in future will produce green energy rather than fossil energy. The hope is light green, the sea is blue, it is obvious that the Lord wants the blue-green government to bet on sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3134	The representative of Westgaard-Halle has asked the following questions: Will the government stimulate investment in floating sea winds, among others. by establishing a regulation for opening and awarding sea wind concessions, facilitating technological development through sea wind demo parks and contributing to cost reductions? I believe I can answer yes to all these questions. But first of all, I share the enthusiasm of Westgaard-Halle for wind power at sea. This is exciting technology that offers great opportunities for Norway, such as both energy nation, technology nation and not least porting. At sea wind power is also in strong growth internationally, and there are many projects in other countries where Norwegian actors can compete to deliver goods and services. In other words, we have a solid starting point in view of the experience of our renewable energy, petroleum and shipping. Marine wind power already accounts for the largest export of goods and services in the renewable sector, and Norwegian companies are at the forefront in several areas, particularly in the area of liquid wind power. The government has a broad instrument that contributes to technology development and cost reductions. Let me mention a few examples: Sea wind is a field of energy21, our national strategy for research and commercialisation of climate-friendly energy technologies. For technology development in offshore wind power, Enova is the main instrument, and for support for internationalisation, both Norway’s Energy Partners and Innovation Norway are important instruments. In the United Kingdom, Equinor has built the world’s first floating wind farm, Hywind Scotland, based on technology developed and tested in Norway, with the support of Enova. Equinor has also applied for Enova support for Hywind Tampen, which, by means of liquid wind turbines, plans to supply the petroleum activity on a Norwegian renewable cap. It is also uplifting that Unitech has taken over Equinor's Hywind turbine at Karmøy to continue the work on testing and developing liquid wind power. I am interested in the activity around Karmøy and in the technology environments in the West, and there are plans for testing new liquid wind turbines in the area. The knowledge environment around these test projects at Karmøy is also supported by the Innovation Norway Cluster Programme. I believe that the breadth and extent of the activity that takes place with support from various public schemes shows that Norwegian environments are active in offshore wind power. It also shows, in my opinion, that the instruments work well and stimulate efforts, and also contribute to cost reductions, as the representative requested in his statement. The representative also asks whether the government intends to open up areas for renewable energy at sea. We'll do that. The ministry is now in a final phase of its work, and I expect a proposal for the opening of areas and a draft regulation under the Marine Energy Act to be sent to the hearing before the summer. The Sea Energy Act requires areas to be opened by the King before a concession can be applied for for at sea for renewable energy projects, but it is already possible to apply for a concession for smaller demonstration projects and projects related to the petroleum activity. The opening of areas will allow for commercial applications for the development of offshore wind power. In order to increase predictability for actors, the concession process will be clarified by a regulation of marine energy legislation. Wind power at sea is, as I said, exciting. But as elsewhere in energy policy, it is not here that this is without conflict or without cost. The government wants to promote the development of profitable renewable energy, and I stress that we have no plans to introduce new support schemes. I also think it's a bit until we see profitability for commercial projects in offshore wind power in Norway. But the costs are falling, and the wind resources off our coast are very good. In the long term, this can become important for Norway, and I believe that a comprehensive and long-term management of marine wind resources is important. I think we will also see resistance to offshore wind projects. We're a port, there's a lot of activity in our marine areas that can be influenced by wind turbines, and there's reason to remember that there are also environmental values at sea. Nevertheless, I believe that offshore wind power has a great potential. The ambition must be that Norwegian industry will continue to be at the forefront of this market and, of course, also increase its market share, not least internationally. Here I believe we must have an ambition that the marine wind market should not only be Norway, but the whole world. At the same time, of course, we should continue to accommodate here at home and follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3159	I have to admit that in my younger days as a green and hopeful climate optimist, I had never thought I would be happy in an oil minister, perhaps not one of the Progress Party in particular, but I am glad that the Council of State takes this seriously, and I am extra happy that he will deliver on parts of my wish list already before the summer. If I'm really lucky, I might also get what I want for Christmas. I'm glad we have actors who dare to bet in Norway, and it's our job to tell them that they are betting on the future. What I promise in this interpellation is just a small part of what we need, so I can promise the Council of State that I will deliver new wish lists for sea wind every single Christmas until we're up and go like the world's leading technology supplier on sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3168	I appreciate the impatience that I perceive that the representative expresses, because there are obviously opportunities for sea wind, which I had in my post, and perhaps especially for Norwegian suppliers out in the big world. Then it also hears that there's an important part of having a home market, and that's what we're doing to make it happen. So this took time, but I believe that this time has been used well. We have to do this wisely. We have a debate on wind power in Norway today, mainly related to wind power on land. I think it is important that we learn from that debate and not move it from land to sea, because we have to recognise and realize that there are some spatial challenges at sea, where several industries are represented – important industries for Norway as a nation. We have both a petroleum industry and a fishing industry that needs to be dealt with in this. But we have an opportunity because we have a large ocean to take off, and then it's about finding the balance sheet with the other industries for how to develop Norway as a port.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3175	I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic. I think it's incredibly good that it's being done, and it's important that we discuss this in Stortinget. For us who are engaged in industrial development and new opportunities for industry in combination with the achievement of climate objectives, liquid sea winds are a very exciting industry to underpin. The Workers' Party has submitted a proposal for a representative, which is now under consideration in the Committee, to be discussed in the Grand Duchy before the summer. Then I hope that we can find together – the opposition and the position – on the proposals that are already contained in that document, but also that we may be able to find more proposals that should be included in this. To stand together and get through the policy that is important in the future is important for both the position and the opposition. You can probably wonder why we have promoted that proposal, and it is simply because it is important to get concrete measures in place to achieve those objectives. It doesn't help to have a goal if you don't reach them, and we still have the opportunity to do something about it. We have a lot of both sea and wind in Norway, so that's not the challenge. We also have competence and a maritime sector – a supplier industry and an offshore industry – that can build up under this initiative in the future. It's incredibly exciting to see how new knives can provide new opportunities in the future. The potential for discharges due to the electrification of the cap is estimated to be between 3 and 7 million. tonnes of CO2. The organisation ZERO estimates that a marine wind partial electrification could generate emissions of between 1 and 3 million. tonnes of CO2 annually. For my part, it's just a number, and it's pretty big, but to illustrate it, it's equivalent to emissions from 0.5 to 1.5 million petrol or diesel-powered cars. At least it gives a pretty good idea that this is something that contributes. Northern Europe remains largely dependent on fossil energy and has set high targets, both at national and EU level, for the transition to renewable energy. Here Norwegian gas plays a role, and even more important it will be when we get carbon capture and storage in place – if we get it. However, Europe will still need to import renewable energy, and if we sell it, we can help get revenues to Norway and help maintain our position as an important energy player internationally. Equinor has his projects, but they have also applied to Enova for support, and there were not small sums they have applied for. So I guess everyone hopes that the cost goes down. And then we'll see if they get the support they want to realize it. I would also like to make it clear that this is a big company that itself has a lot of capital and opportunities to get far in that project. I want to get into what the Council of State said. It is clear that the Council of State is also interested in getting this in place, but at the same time you see some dark clouds in the horizon. One is that this will not be conflictless either, but in those days you will have the opportunity to work to find solutions in the areas you are planning. It will be interesting to hear what the Council of State intends to do in terms of conflict management and prevention in that area. Costs – clearly: You say here that you do not want to come up with new support schemes, but you want to make it clear that you want to order Enova and Innovation Norway, given that this is an important and new initiative? What do you actually do with that? It would be very good to get an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3196	I must say that it is motivating and inspiring to listen to the exchange of words in this interpellation debate. Norway can now, on the shoulders of the competence we have acquired through the oil, gas and maritime sectors, develop expansive and, in particular, climate-friendly renewable energy solutions based on liquid sea winds. It's been a few years since I, who speaks very freshly, got a visit to my office by a delegation from Vestavind Offshore, who told me about new, exciting plans, and about Norway's ability to be a leader on floating sea winds. The oil price was coming down, and several contracts we would very much like to have here home went to Asia. But the times turned around, and again there was an upturn in oil and gas, and in focus again was what we could best: pick up petroleum. But times have changed, and even though the oil price is now high, we experience a different motivation to look at new markets. The green shift has seriously entered the energy companies' portfolio. Of course, this does not include our power companies, which have developed renewable energy for several ages. The fact that sea winds can become a new chapter in our industrial history is not just about making use of the technology we have acquired from large complex installations. It is also about cable technology, material technology, subsea technology, drones and maritime sectors. It's about the development of robots both above and below water, about the transfer of power to other media – like hydrogen – about how we see the future's energyhubar offshore, for the 'fueling' of the maritime fleet to be transferred to renewable energy sources. And here we are – in this melting pot. The industry is rigging so that they are in a position to participate in this development. They have already established clusters and clusters, such as Metcenter, Norwegian Offshore Wind Cluster, Sustainable Energy Norwegian Catapult Centre, GCE Ocean Technology and NCE Maritime CleanTech. The first Hywind mill is taken into the catapult center, which allows several small and medium-sized enterprises to test out their technologies. It could be paint on rotor blades that prevent insects from attaching, or advanced service equipment that can elegantly operate the mills even in bad weather. We are also attracted to the company outside Norway. Where the Californians have to search 31 instances to test their ocean wind technology, we've already arranged for a simple application here. Where there are no support schemes for technology development in the other places, we have made arrangements here. And it's not without reason that Makani from California this summer has just chosen a Norwegian site to test his concept. As we hear from the Council of State, this is still a new piece of work. The ministry is in a final phase of its work, and proposals for the opening of the area and draft regulations under the Marine Energy Act will be sent to the hearing before summer. We are impatient, yet confident that we are keeping our course against a new industrial venture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3219	First of all, thank the representative Lene Westgaard-Halle, who has promoted this important interplay. Terje Halleland from the Progress Party, Per Espen Stoknes from the Green Party and I also promoted a document on sea wind last year. This is an important initiative, and, as the representative Lene Westgaard-Halle also said, the blue-green government is leading – also with the greens on the team. It takes time to build industry, but it is not windless – neither climate nor industry for the time being. We have climate strikes quite regularly. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change insists that we have to get the speed up. Windmills on land create a lot of discussion with us. And we have an industry that sees new opportunities. We should be very happy about all of this, because at its best it will help the climate and the environment, and it can also create great new opportunities for our industrial sector and help create many new jobs. What's important in this discussion is also what we're going to use the power of. Several have been concerned with the possibility of replacing offshore gas turbines. It is an important climate action, and it will make it faster than the quota system alone will. It is important that Norway looks for all possibilities of ‘washing’ our petroleum sector, which needs to cut point emissions. The southern part of the North Sea is close to the continent, and it is also possible to export force. At the same time, carbon capture and storage can generate increased demand for electricity. So we're sitting on a lot of good opportunities. The representative Eskeland was inside hydrogen, which requires power to produce, but which can also give us great export opportunities. It is also important to discuss what kind of sea wind. We haven't started much so far. Equinor has projects in Scotland, and it also has Hywind Tampen. And we see that Shell, another big oil company, along with Makani, is in on another technology that is betting on airborne sea wind, and comes to Norway this summer to continue the piloting of kits as a possible producer of energy. It is obviously also exciting if we can challenge Denmark in horizontal wind and become the best in the world on the airborne wind. In this case, it will result in smaller investments in bottom-up installations and greater flexibility. It can be moved around to a greater extent, but it will still require much of what the supplier industry wants, such as project management, underwater cables, underwater installations, maintenance and inspections of ships and equipment – it will also be an important part of such an industrial construction. When the Council of State Freiberg points out that we are going to be both impatient and patient at the same time, it also has something to do with the development of technology. There is nothing that we should politically decide – the technology that wins. That's why it's very important that we continue where we've started, by developing test centers, by developing Enova to have the capacity to put on, to develop other actors. Metcenter has been a arena project. Having that tool up and running is very important to build up under industrial opportunities in the future – that at some point we do not decide which technology to use. This is also one of the good opportunities that Norway faces. Together with carbon capture and storage, and in the case of hydrogen, we're still facing an adventure of possibilities. But it is clear that this is nearby because we have such a strong oil and gas sector and maritime sector, which can continue to exist in a supplier sector where large markets are opening up globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3238	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this important question, and I also want to thank the Council of State for his good response to the Westgaard-Halle representative. I would also like to thank you for an interesting contribution to the debate that has taken place. One important thing, as the representative Ketil Kjeseth was at the end of his post, is that we can't talk about the one thing that's going to make us manage to solve the climate problem. There are many ideas, many technologies that need to be able to move from fossil to renewable energy. It's not just one thing, it's many things, but then we also have to show that we're able to facilitate innovation, and that we can be a support where we see that new technology is developing. With regard to offshore wind power, we see important technological developments and lower costs, and that is precisely why one or two sea areas are now being prepared for sea wind, by the government. Norway can build on incredibly important expertise and experience from the oil and gas industry, from shipping, the shipbuilding industry and renewable energy. Norwegian companies are in the forefront of several sub-elements of offshore wind power, e.g. marine cables, but Norwegian companies are also world leaders on personnel and assembly vessels, paints, chassis, certification and software. So here Norway can contribute a lot. We can contribute to technology development, and it can also be an important export product. Yes, significant values for the development of offshore wind power are already exported in other countries, and wind power is particularly exciting with Norwegian eyes. So I want – once again – to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. I want to thank you for the good answers from the Council of State, and thank you for all the good contributions in this interesting debate. This is a topic we need to discuss more, together with other renewable themes for Norway. One thing is certain: we have a unique competence and experience to develop this field further, and then we have to be forward-looking on the further development of new technologies and renewable investments, even at sea, because in terms of the sea, Norway is in a very special position. So a thousand heartfelt thanks to the interpellant, and a thousand heartfelt thanks again to the Council of State. And then I might have hoped that more parties would participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3251	For a wonderfully blessed country we live in! We have beautiful, high and humid mountains that have given us hydropower, revenues and clean energy. We have a long-distance coast where a 17th May train of dinosaurs ended their journey, which has given us not as clean energy, but huge revenues, which makes it possible for us to invest heavily in green solutions and green technology. We know energy, we can offshore, and we know technology. So more people in this room are also at sea, and I don't think we should underestimate that. It's not that because you don't like windmills on land and are afraid of nature here, the solution is to send everything to sea. There is nature there as well, and it must be taken into account when opening these areas. But I'm optimistic – optimistic on behalf of everyone in the offshore industry, and optimistic on behalf of those who are currently working in the oil industry. They have unique competence that can be very easily transferred to floating sea winds. This is not only about climate but also about value creation and jobs. It also means that we must actively participate in international initiatives for cooperation and coordination of the development of sea winds. Finally, I would also like to thank the other parties in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I feel that we are shoulder to shoulder and together about this. We all want a bet on floating sea winds, and that signal I hope both the industry and the minister take with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3263	Thank you to the inter-pellant and thank you for a good debate. It's the way we're in front of the ocean, and we have to take the starting point we have, and develop it further. We started on Karmøy. It's used over 400 million. kr, which in turn made Equinor take the knowledge with him and build Hywind Scotland. Equinor has just joined a wind farm in Germany, Arkona, where I was delighted to join and open, where Equinor is a partner, and where Norwegian suppliers were involved in the project. And it's not that many weeks since we saw that Aibel won a contract in connection with a platform connected to a new German offshore wind farm. So we're in the front, and it's about taking care of the starting point we have, and developing the opportunities in a rapidly growing market internationally. Then the tool was requested. I believe that we have shown through what has happened that we have an instrument that hits well. Enova isn't the answer to everything, but that's the answer to a lot. And if we see the initiative that Equinor has taken with regard to electrification of petroleum installations, then there's an application in the tool Enova to implement it if possible. We have Innovation Norway, we have NORWEP, and I also show that we have Energy21, i.e. the research strategy and the research programmes, where this is an essential part. I'm also very happy with what's being said about land conflicts. We're being asked what we're doing to avoid this; we're doing the same thing we do on land. There we have gone into the gap: we are now developing a national framework for wind power – where we can have wind power for countries where we take into account natural values, natural diversity, etc.? And the same work we've done at sea; for the areas we're going to propose, it's taken into account that there's already activity in the sea. I think it's incredibly important that we not shift the debate from land to sea, because there are some obvious challenges we have to solve in a good way. Thank you for a good debate and thank you to the inter-pellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3278	With that, the debate on substance is no. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3296	In the latest edition of the annual Health Policy Barometer from Kantar, 62 pst. that we have a two-part healthcare system, with a personal economic impact on how well you are being treated. 78 pst. of the asked people think this is negative, and 64 pst. believes that it helps to create greater differences between people. In recent years, the media have given us more single stories about patients with deadly diseases who have paid off their pocket to receive treatment that the public does not provide. This is worrying, especially when we know that there are basically major social differences in the health status of the population. The Public Health Report 2018 from the Institute of Public Health shows that those with the highest education live up to six years longer than they did. The social differences in life expectancy are increasing, and they are larger in Norway than in many other European countries. A report from the Statistical Central Bureau published in 2017 showed that among people over 45 years of age, almost 50 pst. of those with the lowest income that they do not have good health. Among those with the highest income, the number is only 20 pst. Similar differences are seen between levels of education. On the other hand, when we look at how many people in the different income groups actually use health services, the differences are not the same. This suggests that there are different conditions to the real need for treatment that determine the extent to which our healthcare services are poor and rich. When it comes to high-paying health services, such as medical specialists and dentists, the SSB’s figures show that high-skilled people use these services more than low-paid and low-skilled. The most important thing we can do politically to counteract a two-part healthcare system is to ensure that the public health service is so good that it is not necessary to pay for commercial services. A report from the analysis agency Menon published in 2017 asked the question: Are we spending too much money on health? Their conclusions were clear: the health sector's revenues have not been particularly high in the last ten years, and we do not use more than other countries with a corresponding high level of income. The report concludes that investment in the health sector has been downgraded in the last ten years. Although investment has increased, investment still represents less of the total cost of the specialist services. The Minister of Health promised to strengthen patient care in hospitals by 12 billion. kr in the previous grossing-up period. There was an error. However, through the reform of free treatment options, the government spends hundreds of millions of dollars a year on commercial treatment sites rather than strengthening public supply. In the Granavolden platform, the government states that they will extend free treatment options to even more areas. In addition, a free user preferences will be applied to the municipalities by model from Sweden. According to the government, there should be greater freedom of choice, but experience from Sweden shows that there is no content of the services users get to choose from, only the company that will deliver the service. On the other hand, we know from Swedish experience that the users who can pay for it are offered extra services from the commercial service providers. A Swedish public statement points out that free choice may have led to greater social and geographical inequalities. This means that free choice can provide additional two-way distribution of healthcare services in Norway as well. Much of the concern for a two-part healthcare system is that patients fear that the public health service does not offer the best treatment and that one is forced to use commercial treatment facilities to get the latest and most effective treatments. In recent years, hospitals have been given financial responsibility for more and more medicines. It's often about the most expensive drugs. Last year, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital went out and pointed out that it was not enough to cover the actual expenses of the new medicine hospitals. The director of the hospital calls it a hidden efficiency improvement from the government, and although health services are required to give priority to new treatments to them, there is reason to fear that underfunding of hospitals helps patients to go to private places to access the newest and best treatment methods. In winter, decision-making forums for new methods set out to say no to the introduction of combination therapy with cytotoxicity and immunotherapy against lung cancer in the Norwegian healthcare service, a treatment that was used by around 700 Norwegian patients each year. After new rounds of negotiations with great public attention, the decision-making forum turned around. It was a very good news for the Norwegian lung cancer patients, but given the great consequences it has of getting a drug yes or no, it is worrying, as the Center Party sees it, that such decisions are made behind closed doors. Since the Minister of Health has given in to the demands of the pharmaceutical industry to keep the price of medicine secret, we do not know how much health benefit per cent must be paid before the decision-making forum says yes to offering a new treatment. We don't know if the pharmaceutical companies are telling the truth when they say they've made a more reasonable offer, nor do we know if the business directors are telling the truth when they say that the price offered is too high. We don't know what that cost is. Nor can we test decision-making forums if they say no to treatment because the treatment is not cost-effective, or if they say no because the total cost of the public health service is too high. This information is kept secret. In order to counteract a two-way street, it is crucial that the population has confidence in the priorities of health services. When there is such a big secret to the priority of health funds, there will be no open debate. It is easy to understand that trust is out of place, and it may be helpful that so many people answer that one has a two-part healthcare system in Norway today. Nor should it have been necessary to purchase private health insurance in Norway, but according to statistics from Finans Norway, the number of Norwegians with private health insurance has increased steadily in recent years. In 2013, it was approx. In 2018, the number of persons insured with treatment was increased to about 400,000. 550 000. When the Right went to elections in 2013, there were 380,000 who had health insurance. I think very well that Health Minister Höie said before the election that there would not be a market for health insurance with the introduction of free treatment options. But since we've just increased our insurance costs. Several insurance companies have stressed that they should cover non-public cancer medicines. There are several trends that contribute to a greater division of health services. We see that the social health differences in the population are increasing. We see that the demand for private health insurance is increasing. More and more expensive medicines are coming on the market. However, the decision on the medicinal product to be offered by the public health service is a secret. In this situation, the government is investing heavily in using public health money on commercial service providers rather than strengthening public supply. We see a competition policy where private providers are going to compete with the public to provide publicly funded health services. There is a superior principle in the new government platform. My question is therefore whether the Council of State believes that we have a two-part healthcare system today, if more privatisation of the public health system is a government objective, and what the government is doing to prevent the development of a two-part healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3319	I take the results of the Health Barometer seriously. It is alarming that so many of the people asked believe that we have a two-part healthcare system that affects the personal economy for how well you are treated. There is a broad consensus that we should protect solutions to public responsibility to finance health and care services. The population shall receive fair distribution of healthcare as needed and shall pay according to the ability of the population to cover the tax bill. In such a system, it is important that the population is confident that they will receive the services they need when they need them. Patients shall not need health insurance or to finance their own treatment in order to obtain the necessary health care that we have jointly agreed on for public funding. The government's aim is to create the patient's healthcare system, and good cooperation between the public and private sector will contribute to more innovation, diversity, quality and freedom of choice in healthcare. These are key elements of the patient’s healthcare. In other words, the use of private actors is an instrument for achieving an overall objective. In this way, it is also important to refer to the same study — Health Barometer — where three out of four in the survey say that they agree with the government that it is more important to get the help they need and that it is publicly funded than who delivers it. Three out of four clearly disagree with the representative’s policy in this area. What we criticize the previous government for is that we saw increasing health cows and waiting times while free capacity was not used and was available only if a paid person himself or had health insurance. That was why we introduced free treatment options. The reform gives patients more freedom of choice and reduced waiting times and contributes to increased activity in public hospitals. We give patients the right to choose treatment from the approved private sector, while the bill is taken from the public sector. Patients do not take out health insurance or pay out of their own pockets, as they have to do in the model of the Centre Party. More than 15,000 patients have taken advantage of the free choice of treatment and have come to health care more quickly than they would otherwise have done, or have received treatment from an institution that they themselves believe has the best offer. People in need of mental health care or drug treatment are of great value in getting to treatment as quickly as possible, and especially for these patients, the diversity of services has a value in itself. I am therefore pleased that several of the drug treatment institutions that were about to be closed down under the red-green government are now treating patients as never before. Therefore, we made sure that these services were the first to be included in free treatment options when this started in 2015. Later, we have extended the scheme to cover several somatic services and rehabilitation services. The amount of private health insurance has increased annually since 2002 and increased most in the period 2007–2011, during the previous government. We see that the annual growth in private health insurance has been lower since 2014 than before, and this coincides with reduced waiting times and increased freedom of choice, as a result of this government's policy. However, I do not think we can expect private health insurance to disappear. I hope it will soon end with the representative making quotes from me erroneously before the 2013 elections. Also at the time, I stressed that there are many factors that will help us to continue to have health insurance, not least that insurance companies always adapt to the market. For example, they will. be able to sell insurance used to cover healthcare which we have jointly failed to agree on as a priority. However, the best way to combat this development is to ensure that public health and care services have the best possible quality and availability. The government will use all the good forces to ensure that, even by purchasing the free capacity of the private as an offer to all patients, not only those with health insurance or thick wallet, which is the Central Party's alternative. The size has joined the prioritisation message and our prioritisation system. This has contributed to more transparency about the decisions taken. A fundamental challenge for healthcare is that opportunities and aspirations will always exceed resources. Therefore, we cannot choose whether to give priority – prioritisation takes place regardless of the institutions we have – but we can choose which principles underpin the decisions. The size has adhered to a set of principles of priority in Norwegian healthcare, and these should contribute to just fair access to healthcare and give legitimacy to the difficult decisions taken every day by those who work in healthcare. The system of introducing new methods in the specialist healthcare service is a tool for ensuring that all health regions can fulfil their care-care responsibilities. The New Approach scheme has contributed to greater transparency about the assessment processes and the priority decisions we take for the new treatment methods. The basis of the decision and the decisions taken shall be published on web pages without delay. The system’s websites contain information on, for example: each method considered – information on the processes, methodology assessments and decisions. More and easily accessible information on these processes is likely to result in greater public attention to the priority decisions taken in this scheme. These are decisions that were previously largely made in internal processes that were not available to the public. The pharmaceutical industry also has major economic interests in creating attention and pressure when it has expensive medicines, and it is being treated in this way. When the representative uses words like that of the Round Table, the representative plays on the team of the pharmaceutical industry, because that is not the case. What is the case is that the pharmaceutical company reduced the price, so that the price became acceptable and was proportionate to the method. If the representative were right to have the decision-making forum turn around, it would be precisely the pressure that industry is trying to create in public space related to these processes, which had now come about. Such a system as the representative and the arrangements of the Central Party, namely political pressure in these kinds of cases, will lead to greater division, more injustice and more randomness of priorities – contrary to the principles of the majority of population. The claim of the centre to keep prices open unilaterally by Norway would mean that very many of the new cancer treatments used in Norway would not be possible. As a result, fewer patients would be helped, which in turn led to a greater division of the Norwegian healthcare system. I believe that the transparency around this has of course also contributed to an impression in the population that we in Norway do not offer patients good treatment, and that more people have to pay for themselves. It is therefore important to point out that since the introduction of the system, regional health businesses have treated up to 200 methods. Of these, about two thirds have been decided upon, while one third have not been decided. We aim to give more cancer patients and others with severe disease access to trial treatment. Exploratory treatment represents a possibility for patients when neither established treatment nor participation in clinical studies is considered possible. The national principles of trial treatment provide that, exceptionally, such treatment may also be offered to individual patients when given conditions are met. The debate on a two-part healthcare system is not about who is performing the service – whether it is a public or private institution. It is about ensuring all Norwegian patients good and proper treatment without having to take insurance or pay private for the health care of their own pocket. The government wants to use all the good forces to ensure that Norwegian patients have access to good and equivalent health and care services, and freedom of choice should not be limited to those with insurance or thick wallets. Here is one of the main issues of Norwegian policy. The centre party and the red-green parties want the freedom of choice to be for them with insurance and thick wallet. They will not prohibit private health services. They want them present in the Norwegian market, but they should only be present for those who have the opportunity to pay for it. Removing the free choice of treatment would give the 12,000 patients who make use of the scheme only one option, and it would be to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3355	It is not the Central Party that has come with the large population survey. It's Kantar who's been doing a big population survey, which shows that six out of ten of those who have been black, think we have a two-part healthcare system today. It's not the Center Party that brings debt to the government – it's people's perceptions of today's health policy. And this has extra. It has increased since the previous investigation, so there are even more people who think that we have a two-part healthcare system than in the corresponding investigation last year, as it was barely 50 pst. Of them asked me 80 pst. That this is negative. Six of ten think this creates greater differences between people. The Minister of Health owes this to the Central Party's policy, but it is actually some years since we were in government, and this government – at least parts of it – has been responsible for health policy since 2013. Then I thought it was special to answer my question about what the government is doing to prevent the development of a two-part healthcare system, and about one thing I think we have a two-part healthcare system today, attacking the Center Party in the way it is done here. I can agree with one thing the Minister of Health said in the paper, and it's that what's important to avoid the need for commercial, and to prevent the development of a two-part healthcare system, is to strengthen the public health system. We don't agree on how to do it. For the government, it's the same if the services are done by private people, or if it's the public itself that does it. The centre party is not against the fact that private is a supplement in the health service – nor have we ever been – but there is the wrong way to ensure freedom of choice when giving private rights to operate with patient treatment paid by the state, and then it is the public hospitals that are to fund it. So one has to take money from the public to the private. That's what makes many public hospitals now facing very large cuts. One can see in many counties how many added as one have to cut in order for the budget to go up, and for one to have ownership of the new buildings. It's not viable. We don't seem to be coming any further with this debate. This is going to be a debate from the trenches, and that's not what I wanted to produce this interpellation. But that's how I register it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3366	If the representative does not want this to be a debate from the trenches, she should have dug herself out of the trench when she made her first post. Then she stood still with the spade and dug herself deeper and deeper into the trench. I started my answer by saying that I take the result of this survey in the greatest seriousness when an increased proportion of the population has the impression that we have got a more two-part healthcare in Norway. But I also hope that the representative will take the second part of the study seriously, namely that three out of four in the study say that they disagree with the central party's policy in this area, and agree with the government. They state correctly that they believe that it is more important that the tasks be solved and paid by the public than who carries out the tasks. So three out of four in the same study that the representative asked me to take seriously, take a distance from the solution of the Center Party in this area and say yes to the government's solution in this area. So I take the investigation seriously – but the entire investigation, and not just the answers that suit me. What is the answer to these challenges is precisely to ensure that public health services are getting better and better. That's why it's prioritised by this government. It is also about reducing unnecessary waiting and giving patients who do not have health insurance or a thick wallet, an option, for example. Ruspacers have the ability to choose exactly the drug collective they believe in and that it should not be available only to those who have parents who can pay for themselves or those who get a local community to collect money for themselves, which was often the case in the past. When we look at what's happening in Hospital-Norway, there's very high investment in construction, medical-technical equipment and ICT. Waiting times have decreased, and more people are being treated. This is the main picture from Hospital-Norway. It is a development that I am proud to have taken place in our time of government, and which I believe helps to strengthen public health, which in Norway will be the largest in any case. But we cannot have a dogmatic relationship with using private people and giving our citizens freedom of choice. Then I'm absolutely sure there's going to be a bigger growth in the private, commercial, funded by wallet and health insurance. We also saw this in the strong growth of health insurance, which was the last time that policy was pursued in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3377	Does the interpellant want a closing post, either from the bottom or from the top of the trench?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3382	I just want a short comment: I didn't think this was such a very fruitful debate. But fortunately – I kept saying – no one else has taken part in it, so it's between me and the council, and that's the way it is. The point is what I said about health insurance. If you're wrong, at least one gets cleaned up. But I was here in the hall myself and heard the council say – I can't exactly represent the choice of words, but it was at least used as an argument from the government – that there would not be a market for the large growth of health insurance when a reform introduced free treatment options, and today there is more than half a million who have health insurance. One may continue the debate by going back in time and refusing to take on the realities of today's health policy, but I think this is enough for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3389	I think I have a fairly good overview of what I myself have said about health insurance. I have always – both when I have been interviewed, and when I have talked about this – underlined that reduced waiting times and the reform of free treatment will reduce the need to have private health insurance in order to get the necessary health services. But I have also, on every occasion that has been offered when I have been asked to talk about this, stressed that the health insurance industry is always going to adapt to the market. This means, for example: that they will offer insurance in areas that are not part of what we have prioritised in common, publicly. There is no doubt that the strongest growth in health insurance sales was under the previous government, as there were also increased waiting times for public health services. That growth has flattened after 2014. When one invites to a debate on the two-part healthcare system and what is the correct response to that development, representatives from the Central Party must also bear in mind that one sets light on what is their alternative. There is clearly a slightly new experience for the representative, because there was no answer to the claims I made. Then I expect the representative to agree with my description of the consequences of the Central Party's policy in this area, and that it means a more two-part health service in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3398	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3416	Good rehabilitation and rehabilitation for the disabled, chronically ill or after harm is an investment in the individual’s ability to achieve the best possible functional and mastering skills, self-employment and participation in education and working life, social and social. Investment is a very good social economy, in the form of fewer redundancies, increasing self-employment and increased opportunities for participation in society. Good quality and interaction between rehabilitation services has led to adequate competence and capacity in the municipalities and in the specialist services. In the 2017 government budget, the government is promoting a Stairs plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The plan agreed to ensure and maintain existing provision in the specialist services in a good way and to help strengthen user perspectives and improve quality, interaction and coordination between levels and within them. The centre party was in doubt about the proposed escalation plan – whether the measures were adequate – and not least about the financing of the escalating plan, both if there was an adequate economy to call it a stepping-up plan and that the money was largely taken from a large group of chroniclers, who were charged with an extra cost of almost NOK 2000 per year by removing the diagnostic list. During the hearing in the committee at the time, there was a great deal of criticism about the escalation plan, and several of the hearing authorities said that he should be withdrawn. We are now in the last year of the Escalation Plan for Habilitation and Rehabilitation. The Health Directorate provided a mid-term summary of this plan in October. The summary showed that fewer users receive rehabilitation, both in the specialist services and in the municipal health services. It is unclear what the government and the Minister of Health will now do to ensure a holistic rehabilitation service with good interaction, so that everyone who needs rehabilitation will get it. It is also unclear what will happen when the escalation period is over – from 2020. More than ever, there is a need to build services that support citizens, so that they can increase functional well-being, improve everyday life and participate in society and work with the most autonomy possible. The need for meistering is in stark contrast to the summary from the Health Directorate, which documents a decrease in the number of people undergoing rehabilitation both in the municipal health service and in the specialist services, and that the part of municipalities with a plan for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation services goes down; there is a steady decrease in the use of individual planes there are large differences between the coordinating units of the municipalities there is a marked decrease in the number of pre-habilitation and rehabilitation applications supported by various skills and innovation approaches; there is a decline in innovation projects prior to rehabilitation and rehabilitation; in healthcare professionals, the part of an ambulance activity before rehabilitation is low there are large regional differences in the provision of rehabilitation in both the municipal and specialist health services; the municipalities express the need to strengthen this field, but the measures do not cover the size of the target group; the target group of care services is more focused than those of working age and rehabilitation services; I think it is worrying that fewer people get rehabilitation when they need it. It may not be that the specialist services build up their supply without interaction with the municipalities, or that supply is built up in the municipalities, but that's what happens. We can take the example of Health Møre and Romsdal, now that both Mork and Aure have been proposed. We can deal with cases in Egersund, where the provision of rehabilitation has been abandoned, and in India there is a question about the hospital Granheim, which is in danger. Developments are particularly worrying when we know that there is also a decline in innovation projects in the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Despite the escalation plan and the objectives of strengthening the provision and development of plans for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the municipalities, we can see that fewer municipalities have plans in this area now than before the escalation plan. There are major differences in the way in which coordinating units operate and in the way in which the coordinators operate, and so there are fewer who have an individual plan now than before the escalation plan. When these systems don't work, we also lose the ability to capture and follow with the most vulnerable in society. Until now, municipalities have developed everyday rehabilitation with older people as a target group and those already receiving care services. This is an important and proper development, but one calls for greater attention to users outside the target group for everyday rehabilitation, and there is also a need to strengthen cognitive, social and psychosocial rehabilitation for children, young people and adults in working age. No one's supposed to be mistaken. When more people are printed earlier from hospitals, physiotherapists and ergot therapists also meet more and more people who are increasingly ill, more complex. Patients are expelled from hospitals for services in the municipality, waiting to be healthy enough to receive rehabilitation in the specialist hospital. This does not coincide with the fact that there has been a decrease in the number of people added before rehabilitation and rehabilitation that has gained a higher level of competence. Investing in more specialised competences among therapists in the community services is necessary to avoid sending people from institutions to institutions. It's a bad case of patients, and it's a bad economy. The mid-term summaries of the escalation plan further describe missing statistics and data on the quantity and quality of the rehabilitation services. There is a lack of systematics, a need for quality indicators and common functional tools. When e.g. The KOSTRA numbers show an increase in the number of ergot therapists and physiotherapists, we don't know if this is an increase in rehabilitation and habilitation services, or if there is an increase in other municipal services. Missing data is no reason not to take responsibility for a real escalation before rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The starting point for rehabilitation is always the individual's goal and chiseling and participation. This approach provides individual rehabilitation courses where the person is supported by interdisciplinary teams and where modern technology is used to increase interaction between professionals and between service levels. It is necessary to break the silhouette and to enter into coordinated and committed cooperation between the municipal services, the specialist services, the hub, relatives and communities. The Health Directorate's mid-term report refers to the inter-municipal project in the inner Eastfold as a good example. So the question in the interview is how the Minister of Health will ensure a holistic rehabilitation and habilitation service with good interaction, so that everyone who needs it gets rehabilitation and rehabilitation. And what happens when the mission period is over in 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3472	Habilitation and rehabilitation are an important area of government. That is why we have presented a three-year escalation plan for this field. In the plan, we have raised several challenges in this area and described measures to meet them. Because hospital lay time is often short, municipalities have a great responsibility for following up patients who need rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The plan therefore has the most attention to the municipalities. All those in need of rehabilitation and rehabilitation should be offered this. The Directorate-General for Health is responsible for following the plan of escalation during the planning period. In this context, the Directorate-General for Health has carried out a mid-term summary. It is based on statistics from the IPLOS register for 2017 and a Questback survey from municipalities from the same period. In other words, the summary is based on material from an early stage of the planning period. Figures from the SSB show that the number of recipients of rehabilitation in institutions in municipalities has been almost stable from 2016 to 2017, while recipients of rehabilitation outside institutions have declined. For various reasons, many municipalities do not register rehabilitation outside the IPLOS institution. The activity of contract-based physiotherapists working with rehabilitation facilities is also not recorded as rehabilitation in municipalities. There is therefore reason to believe that there is under-reporting of habilitation and rehabilitation in municipalities. We're developing the municipal patient registry KPR. In the further development of this, we will be able to more easily retrieve data on the rehabilitation and rehabilitation efforts in the municipalities. From 2016 to 2017, there was a decrease of 1.8 pst. in the number of patients undergoing specialist healthcare rehabilitation. It was the lighter forms of rehabilitation that went down, i.e. primary, simple 24-hour rehabilitation and day and outpatient rehabilitation. The escalation plan includes a municipal incentive grant that can be applied for by municipalities. It also includes an increase in the free revenues of 200 million. kr to the municipalities, which are justified in the plan of escalation. Over the years, the Health Directorate has followed the development of habilitation and rehabilitation activities in municipalities and has seen that many municipalities do not have a politically adopted plan for their activities. One of the criteria for obtaining a grant is that the municipality should have a politically agreed plan for its activities or that the funds should contribute to the development or updating of such a plan. The coordinating unit of the municipalities is central to the preparation of the plan. The objective of this criterion is, inter alia, to: have been responsible for ensuring that rehabilitation and rehabilitation are well anchored in the management of the municipality. I believe that if the municipality does not have such a plan for the business, a bet will not hit the target groups that need the most offer. In the 2017 survey of municipalities, over 40 pst. by the municipalities that they have an up-to-date plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. From preliminary KOSTRA figures for 2018 we see a positive development, and that the number of municipalities with plans has increased to approx. 50 pst. Development and political treatment of such a plan takes some time. The Health Directorate expects the proportion to increase as several municipalities receive grants for the escalation plan. In 2018, over 200 municipalities received grants, compared with 150 in 2017. The Health Directorate summary shows that there is a decrease in the number of users with individual plans, but at the same time several users have been allocated coordinators. The Health Directorate learns that this is a topic that needs clearer leadership anchoring. This is why the directorate in its supervisors has, among other things, made it clear that, for patients and users ‘with a need for long-term and coordinated services’, municipalities must meet the requirements of the statutory coordinator role and work in line with patients’ and users’ rights, cf. individual plan and coordinator law. It is up to the municipalities to organise coordinating units as they deem appropriate. The Directorate-General for Health has made recommendations in its Adviser on organisation to ensure that entities can fulfil the important role of facilitating the coordination of services. The population reports that important development work is in progress in this area. This is also a central pilot theme for structured multidisciplinary follow-up teams. The government has increased the initial, further and continuing training of staff in health and care services by nearly 170 million. kr. Total appropriations in 2019 are approximately 360 million. kr. Both the grant of the escalation plan and the grant of competence and innovation are managed by the county councillors. The Health Directorate is in dialogue with the county council members who follow the objectives of the escalation plan and who also follow developments in this area. Although the statistical base at municipal level is deficient, we have good data on the availability of resources in the municipalities through KOSTRA. With regard to the annual development of physiotherapies and ergots, this has been very positive in recent years. From 2013 to 2018 there has been a steady increase in annual developments for both groups. In addition to the legal groups included in the law on municipal health and care services today, municipalities will have, as of 2020, an ergoterapeut and psychologist’s competence in their service provision. These are both key actors in the rehabilitation and rehabilitation work in municipalities. The escalation plan contains a number of measures followed by the government. Outpatient care for children with brain damage became part of a free treatment choice in 2017. Specific allocations have been made to all regional health establishments to establish a coherent treatment and rehabilitation course for children with acquired brain damage. The ParkinsonNet pilot project is now taking place in Stavanger and Oslo. The project shows that increased competence of both professionals and users improves the quality of treatment. An evaluation shows a broad consensus that the form of work can give users greater autonomy and that there is a lower need for hospital services and hospitalisation. The increase in outpatient services has been followed up as a mission to health regions. Feedbacks show that outpatient services are being developed in several disciplines where specialist health staff travel to municipalities to treat, follow up and guide both users, relatives and municipal services. Digital solutions are also used here. St. Olav's hospital runs a project in all regions to establish multidisciplinary diagnostic centres and learning networks for patients with long-standing pain and/or fatigue conditions with unclear cause. The project has provided a national professional boost in areas such as long-term fatigue due to unclear causes for the paediatric population with complex symptomatic and painful conditions. It's e.g. Standardised patient courses for patients with pain conditions. We have made some simplifications in the legislation to make it easier to access the logoped. Here we have also commissioned the Health Directorate to go through tariffs and legislation and propose measures that could link the logopeds closer to the municipalities. We have taken a number of measures in the physiotherapy service, which together contribute to better availability, quality and patient safety. In addition, we have introduced free rehabilitation options for patients from across the country to have more equivalent access to private rehabilitation institutions. We have started work on phased into rehabilitation services in the authorisation system for free treatment choices. Packing processes shall also be established for different patient groups. Recent consultations have been held on the package pathways for the post-brain stroke rehabilitation phase. Packages are also planned for pain, muscle and skeletal diseases and fatigue disorders. In addition, other good initiatives and projects are being undertaken by municipalities in this field. 2017 was the first year of the planning period. The experience of municipal incentive grants in other areas suggests that building capacity and competence on municipal services takes time. I therefore believe that the effect of the stimulation grant and the increase in the municipal framework on the basis of the escalation plan will only be seen after a few years. It is therefore important to follow the progress made to see if the negative trend has reversed in some areas. I will ensure that the Health Directorate is commissioned to evaluate the measures throughout the planning period, so that we can get a better basis for concluding after the end of the planning period in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3510	It is quite alarming when we have adopted a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, that a mid-term report not only shows that one has failed to build it up as well as one has thought, but that many parameters show that it has been reduced. That's pretty special. This has been a decline in the number of people receiving rehabilitation, both in the municipalities and in hospitals. I thought it was particularly serious. I agree with the Council of State that one should be patient. I can understand it takes time to build up an offer, and that the result can be seen only after a few years, but that one below a stepping-up plan sees a decrease in the number of people who get these services, I think I'm inexplicable. I don't think the council has a good answer to that. One sees there is a decrease in the use of individual levels, not a slight increase, but a decrease in the use of individual levels and a marked decrease in additions that will increase competence before this – actually quite unlikely that it will go on the whole. There is also a decline in municipalities that have a plan for this field. I hear what the Council of State says about plans and things and new statistics, but it is at least a reality that the mid-term report showed a decline in very many fields and that fewer people are being rehabilitated now than before the plan of escalation was adopted. I have to ask the Council of State: is the Council of State satisfied with the state of the rehabilitation field? Plans and measures were referred to, but is he satisfied with this situation? Or did he think the government's policy for this area too is so excellent that he does not see reason to be concerned by the mid-term report that came? I am pleased that the Council of State finally said that an evaluation should be made after the end of the planning period, i.e. in 2020, and I expect that it will also be able to provide guidance on how to proceed with this escalation plan once the process itself – which should be a stepping-up – has been delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3527	Also, of course, I'm concerned that the number of people who receive rehabilitation outside the institutions in the municipalities dropped in the first year of the escalation plan. But I would like to underline and tell you something about the need for the precisely escalating plan. The figures to which the representative refers are statistics from the IPLOS register for 2017 and a Questback survey for municipalities from the same period – that was the first year. Then there are some indicators that these instruments have started to work – if we, for example, have started to work. looks at the annual development of key competence groups in municipalities, where we have KOSTRA figures for 2018, which is the second year of the escalation plan. We are now in the third year, 2019. Experience from other areas, such as: The government's commitment to school health services and health centres shows that, although we have a very strong commitment, it takes time for the municipalities – point one – to hire people. Those who are new employees should enter into their new role, and then they should start to be active against the patients. It would take us a little bit of time, and that meant that in that area we saw the effects only after two to three years. It is also the case that the municipalities have experienced many times that the state launches bets with bragging and bram, and then it becomes a one-off bet. There is also uncertainty in municipalities as to whether they should dry up the employment of people in this area. So when this came into the budget for the first year, there were probably some municipalities that thought we'd have to wait and see if this would be a further bet. Now they have learned that the government has followed up its promises and prioritised this three years in a row, and then I also believe that we will see results. The representative said there has been a decrease in the number of municipalities that have developed plans in this area. In my paper, I explained the very opposite trend, namely that our demand for municipalities to have politically adopted plans in this area has led to a year to year-on-year increase from 40 pst. to 50 pst. The Health Directorate says that their impression is that we're also going to see another increase. I'm not reassured by the numbers we have now. I am very concerned, as the representative also concluded, that we get a good evaluation in the end, but of the latest figures we have, from 2018, I see a good deal of evidence that the bet is hopefully starting to give results in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3540	I see that many people are concerned that specialised rehabilitation in hospitals is being built before the corresponding housing is built up in the municipality. We have many examples that this has actually happened and that it has led to a lot of concern from the municipalities. One example is the provision of rehabilitation in Egersund, where the health care agency wrote directly in the decision that a major reason they did so was to get money for equity to build a new hospital in Stavanger. We have exactly the same problem in Health More and Romesdal now, where one has decided to close specialized rehabilitation at Mork and Aure, and with a time perspective that means that the municipalities have no chance of building up their skills accordingly until this is done. There is also feedback from other municipalities in other places in the country. This is something that in a way complicates the whole escalation plan. At Stortinget, all of them were saying that a stepping-up plan had to be done primarily in the municipalities because much more rehabilitation can and should be done in the municipalities, but the only thing that is not in agreement is that specialized rehabilitation is built down so quickly, and perhaps too much. So I'd like to challenge the Council of State before his last statement on whether he's not worried about this particular thing, that the hospital is now building down the specialized rehabilitation too quickly, and in case what the Council of State wants to do about it, in addition to mentioning it in the mission paper, because we see that from Health Mid-Norway has had no visible effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3549	I can also say a few words about the development of the rehabilitation field in the specialist health service. Although there have been some technical advice that suggests that a person should also transfer a large part of the rehabilitation services from the specialist health service to the municipalities, the government has politically chosen not to follow it, precisely because we see that a good part of the rehabilitation offer given in the specialist health service today would have been very difficult for many municipalities to give themselves. This would lead to a great difference in the country, because someone had lived in municipalities that had the opportunity to offer that kind of rehabilitation, while very many had lived in municipalities that had not had that possibility. That's why we chose not to do it. It is a political choice we also made in connection with the escalation plan for the rehabilitation field. I have also given a steering signal to the health regions that one should not downgrade rehabilitation services that one believes are within the responsibility of the municipality, faster than the municipality can be able to give it itself. As regards the offer in Egersund, parts of it were transferred to Stavanger, the specialised rehabilitation, while parts of it was clearly an offer that the municipalities could handle themselves. The municipalities in the Dalane region had received money through the escalation plan to build up that kind of offer, and could jointly push it further if they wanted it. In the case of Health More and Romesdal, no decision has been taken to shut down the two mentioned rehabilitation institutions. That means there's something I'm going to follow, of course, in case the board decides, but it's not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3560	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3578	I almost have a bad conscience that takes our hardworking foreign minister another night to the Stortinget, but I don't have a bad conscience for the important topic I'm dealing with, and that's all there is to discuss. After the Communist regimes in Eastern and Central Europe were forced to give up power at the end of the 1980s, the threat of the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in this part of Europe grew. This has also happened, but this optimism has been overcome in recent years by concerns that countries such as Russia, Belarus, Azerbaijan and Turkey, as well as EU countries such as Hungary and Poland, have been moving in the wrong direction. It is alarming when, among other things, the legal system and the mass media are controlled by and under the control of the government. Our liberal democracy is not a gift we can take for granted. We need to see the danger when the alarm is lit. We have to understand why the state of law is being undermined, why it happens. We need some more effective measures to stop undermining the fundamental principle of democracy. That's why I'm going to go up this interpellation, and I'm asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs to elaborate on what they think is Norway's most important instrument in the fight against authoritarian governance and in order to protect the rule of law. We have international cooperation bodies based on such principles. How can Norway contribute to strengthening the role of the Council of Europe and the OSCE in ensuring democracy, the rule of law and human rights? How can we cooperate with the EU on action? Will the government use EEA funds even more targeted to promote democracy and a strong civil society? What is the status of government's work on establishing human rights sanctions? Likely, democratic governance as an ideal and reality has never stood stronger globally than they did around 2005. Since then it has been a real decline in Europe as well. Are we now witnessing a time separation? What's happened? Russia is the country that has had the most negative impact, including: because the authorities which have supported the populist, strongly nationalist and anti-democratic parties in several European countries. At the same time, a number of peripheral European parties are looking at the ‘strong man’ model represented by the Putin regime. The regime in Russia is behind an extensive interference in democratic elections in the West, including the presidential election in the United States. This helped Donald Trump to become the 45th President of the United States, cf. Mueller report. President Lukashenko of Belarus and President Aliyev of Azerbaijan have long been in power. They have restricted a number of human rights and have not allowed any political opposition. Political incarceration is widespread. Belarus is the only country that is not a member of the Council of Europe, and they still have the death penalty. In several cases, Azerbaijan has refused to execute judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The country was behind a major corruption scandal in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, where they bought votes to avoid negative resolutions. After 2005, Turkey, under President Erdogan, has developed in an authoritarian direction. We see the imprisonment of journalists and political opposition based on debt that they support Kurdish nationalism, violence, terrorism or the Gülen movement. In recent years, Erdogan has developed a centralist presidential government. The regime controls the large media houses, has weakened the independence of the courts and restricted freedom of expression. He recently pushed through the cancellation of the Istanbul election result after the opposition candidate won the election. After Viktor Orbán’s failure in 2010, Hungary carried out a drastic transformation with a strong centralisation of power, not least the government’s dominance over the media, the courts and other important institutions. In the later elections he has used a rhetorical mark of anti-refugees, anti-Islam, anti-EU, anti-FN and not least anti-Soros. Why? He believes the EU is failing that it is Hungary that defends the Christian Europe against Islam and protects liberal values. Under the National Conservative Party of Law and Justice, the President of Poland has carried out similar sanctions, in which the government seeks to dominate the media and the courts. But the civil society in Poland is stronger than in Hungary. Some of the attempts to take over the courts with their own support players have also been halted by the EU — an EU that has done an important job. In the last two years, the leadership role of the United States, supported by democracy, has changed and weakened, which the Foreign Minister also pointed out in his statement earlier this spring. The West no longer appears in the same way as a single block when it comes to promoting democracy. President Trump will be seen as less collusive, more divisive. That he wants to promote the interests of the United States is understandable and not strange. What is troubling is that he has reduced the contribution of the United States to international organisations, for example. by withdrawing the United States from the UN Human Rights Council. He has hailed authoritarian leaders and contributed to a new political climate of nationalism, trade war and major action policy. It may weaken the international legal order. There is reason to note how democracy in several countries is being undermined. It usually doesn't happen at the military coup. The methods used are others. The political opposition is stigmatized. Important institutions, including the judiciary and the most important mass media, are subject to direct control by the government. Civil rights are restricted, so it becomes difficult to organize or criticise the government. Power is centralized around a strong president, as we see in Azerbaijan, Russia, Turkey and Belarus, around the government, like in Hungary, or around a powerful person outside the formal apparatus of power that pulls the strings, something like this. see in Poland. There will be a peak culture of corruption in which the political and economic elite cooperate to make one another rich at the expense of the people. We must be on guard against authoritarian behaviour by political leaders in democracy. The warning lights should focus when this happens – when they reject or express weak support for democratic players, when they reject the legitimacy of political opponents, when they tolerate or encourage power, and when they try to restrict the civil rights of their opponents and of the media. We see signs of a weakening of democracy. When it comes to knowing how best to act to defend democracy and the rule of law, when democratic politicians in Europe see such tendencies in their own circles, they have to take responsibility. We have to take responsibility. Party loyalty must not cause anyone to fail to defend democracy. Unfortunately, there are many mainstream politicians who have believed that they could tame an authoritarian outsider when they came to power. It's rarely going well, and some times it's going completely wrong. It's our story. Fortunately, we're not there today. I don't want to compare what's happening, neither Hitler's Nazism nor Stalin's communism. It was totalitarian regimes and ideologies. Today, our task is to defend democracy, the rule of law and human rights and to prevent the confusion of the pillars of liberal democracy. We have to defend values that we believe are decisive for our free society. We must give Norwegian and international support to democratic political forces, to civil society, to independent media and to justice. It can play an important prevention role in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3610	The representative, Mr Hareide, addresses a very important issue — and he should not in any way have a bad conscience for the late debate, rather on the contrary — because developments in parts of Europe give cause for concern. In some countries the opposition's condition has now become so difficult that we can actually talk about a shift away from representative democracy towards something that reminds us of the one-party states of the past. We also record that managers with authoritarian traits have gained increased self-confidence. Fortunately, we also see counterpowers. The results of this weekend’s European Parliament elections show a composite picture – more complex than many fears – in the countries the representative mentions. In Hungary, the Governing Party confirmed its dominant position. In Poland and Romania, on the other hand, the opposition became more disillusioned, and it is an important correction by the electorate. A theme that has remained in these countries in recent years is an increasing pressure on the rule of law. This is a development we have every reason to be concerned about. The rule of law constitutes the backbone of the democratic system, and when the backbone is confused, the whole structure may collapse. Without an independent judiciary, the legal certainty of minorities is particularly vulnerable. Those who are not directly affected do not like to see the long-term consequences of legally elected governments strengthening their own position at the expense of legal principles and legal certainty. Developments are not only serious for the population in the countries concerned, they can also have consequences for Norway and for European cooperation Norway is part of. A safe Europe is a Europe that builds up dividing lines that give rise to conflict and instability. Developments in Poland, Hungary and Romania are of concern and the EU has launched a debate on whether the Union should have more effective instruments to ensure respect for the EU's values and rule of law. In its draft new long-term budget, the Commission has put forward proposals for a mechanism linking compliance with the rule of law to transfers from the EU budget, on the grounds that EU funds need to be adequately secured. In addition, Germany and Belgium have recently submitted a proposal for a peer review system, whereby the Member States are to monitor through the Council the development of democracy and the rule of law in all EU Member States. Norway supports the EU's efforts to promote respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy, and we closely follow the EU's processes towards Poland and Hungary. We have repeatedly encouraged countries to cooperate with the EU institutions, and we note that in December 2018 Poland chose to amend the new law on Supreme Court under the orders of the European Court of Justice. Regional actors to whom the Council of Europe and the OSCE have appropriate tools to attract. The Venice Commission's advisory opinions are a good example. The EU's various tools, primarily Article 7, on breaches of fundamental values, are also an option the EU uses, but of course it has its limitations. The challenge for all is that they require real commitment to compliance with the country’s own leaders. Current instruments for Norway are the presence and dialogue, targeted support for civil society actors, independent media and judicial reform in line with fundamental principles of the rule of law. The UN's periodical land hearings, UPR, have proved to be an effective starting point for dialogue with authorities. It is important that we communicate why it is in the country's own interest to protect democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Through the EEA funds, Norway contributes to social and economic cohesion in 15 European countries. The funds contribute, inter alia, to: to strengthen civil society and the justice sector in the recipient countries, in line with the principles of rule of law, democracy and good governance. Interpellant asks whether government will use EEA funds even more specifically to promote democracy and a stronger civil society. The main profile of EEA funds in the current period, i.e. 2014-2021, is defined in agreement between donor countries and the EU, followed by national negotiations with the beneficiary countries. Agreements have been concluded with 14 of the 15 beneficiary countries. The funds for the justice sector and judicial reform have been significantly strengthened in relation to previous periods. In addition, the reserve for the civil society fund has increased and now represents at least 10 pst. of the total transfers, and the requirement for independent management of the fund, i.e. independent of the national authorities, has been strengthened in relation to the previous period. We do this in order to seek to contribute to a stronger civil society, which is an important part of any well-functioning democracy. We are still negotiating with Hungary, where it remains to be agreed first and foremost on the management of the Civil Society Fund. The donor countries, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, are united on our position in the negotiations. Our approach is also supported by the Commission and by key EU countries. This is a problem I have kept the European Commission constantly up-to-date. I have also discussed this in my presentations in Stortinget, and I feel that there is cross-political support for the government's line. We hope that it is still possible to agree, but we are quite clear that we need to find solutions to all the outstanding issues, including civil society, in order to be able to reach an agreement with Hungary. So we don't split civil society up from the other funds – you could, for example. think that the funds were agreed, i.e. approx. 90 pst. first, and then come back to civil society. Everything has to be in place before we pay the funds. EEA funds for Hungary will therefore not be disbursed until there is a comprehensive agreement in place. In order to assist beneficiary countries in the development and implementation of agreed areas of activity, we have also established cooperation with Norwegian universities through the EEA funds, such as: The Administration of the Court of Justice and international organisations such as the Council of Europe and the European Agency for Fundamental Rights. This cooperation also contributes to further strengthening the focus on international standards, democracy and the rule of law. The core values of the Council of Europe – human rights, democracy and the rule of law – are more important than ever. Norway is a strong supporter of the organisation, and not least we support the European Court of Human Rights, both financially and professionally. We have increased our voluntary contributions to the court. We will continue to end with the organisation's monitoring mechanisms and the human rights commissioner's need for greater access to so-called grey areas in some Member States. Norway wants to preserve the Council of Europe as a pan-European organisation that includes all Europe’s 830 million inhabitants and gives them access to the Court of Human Rights. It's quite unique that we have a death penalty-free zone that includes 830 million people, and we want it to continue to be like that. The field work of the OSCE is also important. We have increased our involvement through personnel and project funding to the OSCE activities in our neighbourhoods south and east of Europe. We also support the OSCE's comprehensive election observations, and we contribute to the OSCE's important efforts for equality, media freedom, security sector reform and the prevention of violent extremism. The situation regarding human rights and the position of the rule of law in Turkey is still very worrying. The government has repeatedly expressed our concern in bilateral talks and through the Council of Europe and other appropriate channels. Governments have strengthened support for civil society in Turkey as the situation worsened following the 2016 coup trial. Actions for freedom of expression have the highest priority. From many quarters, there is concern about authoritarian developments and an increasingly difficult human rights situation in Russia. I share the concern about this development. This concerns both the conditions of civil society in general and specific issues such as the persecution of LHBTI individuals and the undue pressure against human rights defenders in Chechnya. Norway was one of 16 countries that activated the so-called Moscow mechanism in the OSCE. This included, inter alia: an expert review of reported human rights violations in Chechnya. Finally, as regards the establishment of human rights sanctions, Norway is now in dialogue with neighbouring countries on the ongoing process in the EU, where various issues related to the establishment of such a sanction regime are discussed. There are many and sometimes difficult questions to address, but they are now being discussed in the EU, and we are taking part in that discussion. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs assesses how Norway can make the best possible contribution to these discussions and is already reviewing the current law on international sanctions and restrictive measures, so that any sanctions regime against persons for serious human rights violations can be implemented in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3648	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good answer and a very good account of the interpellation I have submitted. I'm very happy about that. I believe that when the Foreign Minister says that authoritarian leaders today appear with very good self-confidence, it is very striking for the situation we have. I also share with the Foreign Minister the idea that it's not uniquely black, it's not uniquely dark. I believe that the EU choice we now had, from Thursday to Sunday, shows an image that is mixed, among other things. the opposition in Hungary and Romania is doing better. That's a very good signal. At the same time, the elections in Poland, the elections in Italy and – I dare say – the elections in the United Kingdom also give us some challenges. We also get a new Prime Minister in the United Kingdom who will be exciting to follow. However, one thing that can be summarised from Norway’s point of view is that at a time when very many countries are really seeing themselves first, and less cooperation, Norway’s voice in international cooperation must be more co-operation — more committed cooperation. That's what I hear from the Foreign Minister, and I'm very happy about that. This is also the case, President – and then I look at the President as he is here now – that I noticed that the Foreign Minister stressed very strongly the close cooperation we have with the European Union. It's important. I also believe that an EU plays a more important role today than in a long, long time, for example. is what is here called the role that one has played associated with the courts of Poland, very important. I had been delighted to meet a human rights fighter from Hungary, at my age, who had experienced living in the regime that was before the Wall fall—a time of darkness. He had only experienced a positive development from 1989 until 2010, and did not believe that this development was possible to reverse. But since 2010, they have experienced that the media has been run and shut down, that the courts have been affected, that it is not the open, free debate. What seemed impossible in 2009–2010 has unfortunately become a dark picture only ten years later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3661	I fully agree with the summary by the representative Hareide. Let me just add that I think we should be very aware that part of the development that is taking place, and that makes the space of civil society narrow, not just about what laws and rules are passed, or how to set up, for example. a judicial reform. The experience we have gained after many years of cooperation – not only with countries outside Europe, but also in the cooperation we have through both EEA funds and with European countries and the EU system – is that in an increasing number of countries, civil society experiences that it is not through the adoption of legislative and formal procedures that space is becoming smaller. Instead, it is by establishing rules and procedures that prevent organisations from meeting. A sense of community is established. There are ways to pursue both organisations, minorities and activists that are not reflected in formal law decisions, but which may in many ways make it easier for regimes with some authoritarian features to defeat civil society that we fully agree on is the backbone and support of any democratic society. It's a development that's deeply worrying, and that makes us have to work in other ways as well as working through those channels and in the ways I mentioned in my initial answer. It's not just about looking at what laws and regulations are adopted, but also in what direction society is going, and how we can best support civil society in those contexts. My experience is that it's unusually important to keep talking about these things and see what's going on, to have a good knowledge of different flows and organisations in different countries. We actively use our embassies to do this, which has an unusually good intake both on the authority side and in the case of civil society organisations. We believe that this is an important part of the job we have, and the task we have of monitoring the situation in countries close to us. I will finish there both the representative Hareide and I started. It is worrying when we see that more leaders feel that they have such great confidence that they can – at no cost – tighten up on key and fundamental issues such as freedom of expression, the rule of law, freedom of the press and freedom of organisation. Then it's our common job through the networks we have, either as parliamentarians or as government members, and through the means we have as Norwegian authorities or in support of civil society in other ways, to take that fight with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3672	The outcome of the European elections shows a new political divide. It's the gray, authoritarian parties that grow up, against the green parties, that raise the grassroots democracy. Some commentators see it as a sign that the existing power structures and tools no longer have the same legitimacy in the population. One might wonder whether we should feel as secure as it appears in this debate, that today's procedure is sufficient, or whether we need to look more fundamentally at how we can create a more inclusive democracy in order to ensure the democratic development we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3677	Several have not asked for the floor, and Case No. 10 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3693	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3712	The size is then ready to go to voting. The appointed alternate of Akershus, Mani Husseini, is now taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3726	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Fredric Holen Bjørdal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 10, by Fredric Holen Bjørdal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 11–16, from Fredric Holen Bjørdal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 17, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 18-20, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party Proposal No. 10 is identical to loose proposal No. 5 on case No. 2, vote for the Stortinget meeting on 30 April 2019. In this context, the President refers to the first sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure: ‘Once a proposal has been finalised, the proposal must not be re-submitted or re-examined in the same roll-out session.’ The President will therefore not accept proposal No. 10 up to voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18-20, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the setting up of a tax and tax committee to present concrete proposals for a comprehensive re-conversion of the current tax system with the aim of contributing to Norway’s achievement of its national Paris objectives. Overall, the proposals shall also contribute to the reduction of economic inequality in the Norwegian society.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking how a model of climate reward can best be introduced in Norway. [[carbon charge for distribution]] It is assumed that, in addition to defining the sectors to be covered, the government also indicates the progressiveness of the tax rates necessary to achieve the climate objectives set out in the Paris Agreement.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a support scheme for shorter working hours in municipal jobs, in particular in burdensome professions such as care professionals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3781	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in a labour force investigation that monitors the balance of power between employer and employee. The investigation shall examine, inter alia, the degree of organisation and obstacles to the organisation, participation, responsibilities of the grantor, forms of management, ownership structure, corporate democracy and control and monitoring of employees. The investigation shall explain the impact of the EEA Agreement on the Norwegian labour force balance.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3796	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–16, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide, each year, a comprehensive survey of the real distribution of wealth in Norway, including shares in unlisted companies and other assets that are currently undervalued in property statistics, with their real market value.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide, each year, estimates for the development of the Gini index and other measures of income inequality in which retained dividends are allocated to the owners of the enterprises in order to obtain a better picture of the income inequality in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present each year a presentation of the overall impact of the government’s policies on the disposable income of different income groups, including estimated effects of, inter alia, changes in taxes, equity, social benefits and welfare schemes, following the presentation of the ‘Distribution policy statement’ in Sweden.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in a labour force investigation that monitors the balance of power between employer and employee. The investigation shall examine, inter alia, the level of organisation and obstacles to the organisation, participation, liability of the grantor, forms of management, ownership structure, corporate democracy and control and monitoring of employees.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a stronger territorial effort in the major cities to ensure good neighbourhoods and smaller differences.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the distributional consequences of the cuts in benefits and welfare schemes, including the cuts in housing support, the cuts in unincorporated child benefits, the purchasing power of old-age pensioners, the cuts in free legal aid, the cuts in the transitional benefit for lone dependants, the cuts in social benefits for those who depend on it to get to the store or doctor, the cuts in maternity care, the cuts in redundancy benefits and the cuts in criminal care and the courts. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» The centre party has announced subsidized support for proposal No. 14 and further support for the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3841	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-9, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that data and data models are provided to enable the SSB and the Ministry of Finance to calculate the geographical distribution effects of government policies, including fiscal policies.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘As from the state budget for 2021, the government asks the government to provide a simple report on the geographical distribution of, inter alia, the tax regime, as is already done for social distribution.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make alternative proposals on how to tax companies with digital performance models in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concrete measures to reduce the level of inequality, as a result of which the current level of economic and social inequality is too high’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to ensure each year that tables and figures in the budgetary documents dealing with the distribution effects of government changes in the tax system are produced with a more fine-tuning of high levels of income and wealth.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to review the gender impact of economic policy and come back to the Storting with concrete proposals to reduce the economic differences between women and men.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with a proposal for a mandate for a sample to analyse power and power displacement in Norway, where, among other things, the consequences of concentration of economic power, technological change, changes in the labour market and climate change are to be highlighted.’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to propose enhanced measures against profit-moving and more financial transparency.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the possibilities of tax havens and Ecokrim to detect and prosecute tax evasion and other financial crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3915	The President proposes that the Minister for Development’s policy statement, held at the meeting of the European Council on 23 May 2019, be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3925	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3949	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Torgair Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests increased control to detect illegal exports of fish.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the level of penalties for the illegal export of fish is at a level that provides a real preventive effect.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought back with measures to ensure serious tourist fishing and to combat resource crime related to recreational fishing.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3989	In Case No: There is no voting theme between 7 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e3998	Case No. 11 is the second time the law is handled and applies to the law decision 59. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-28.ana.ud12e4057	As a result, the issues on today's map have been dealt with successfully. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
