ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e28	The called alternate of Akershus, Torleif Hamre, is now taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e47	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Jon Georg Dale and Ola Elvestuen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e56	My question goes to the Council of State, Ropstad. This government has put equality in reverse. Its basis of existence is the tightening of the abortion law. The state councils have been busy lately. He has had so many things to think about that, unfortunately, he has not taken the time to come to the Stortinge to explain the crisis and the violations of human rights in child protection. On the other hand, he has had time to worry about both the implementation of a single-child policy in Norway and the care of animals over human care, so he has now made an effort in the government to prevent LHBTI individuals from being protected from being subjected to abuse, under the cover of freedom of faith and mental health. Bishop Solveig Fiske says it well: ‘The LHBTI has been subjected to the so-called homotherapy or conversion therapy is an offence.’ What we see is that the Christian People's Party binds the other government parties to its veto policy on value issues in government. Women are deprived of their self-determination, and LHBTI people have to pay the price because the Christian People's Party now seems to be making an impact on its conservative value policy. The Labour Party has proposed to ban this offensive, discriminatory and life-threatening practice, which also destroys the growth of children and young people, and even causes young people to take their own lives. How can the Minister for Children, who is the Council of State for these vulnerable young people who are exposed to this, sit and watch, and at the same time not agree to say that this is something that we should ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e74	The President will only note that equality is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for Gender, but will leave to the Council of State Rupstad to answer the question if he wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e79	I will admit that I was prepared to have questions that are outside my field of responsibility, so I am ready to answer them. Let me make it clear: I'm taking a strong distance from conversion therapy. I believe it is forbidden today. The abuses, the violence, the therapy or treatment that harm people, such as: The VG-documenter has shown, is forbidden, and we must fight against that. That's why I've also been busy talking about attitudes, it's about how leaders in different environments meet vulnerable people. I think they have a great responsibility in the position they have when talking to others. But in the debate, this so-called conversion therapy has space ranging from major abuses and violence to conversations where people really want to discuss what is difficult for them, and get advice in a difficult life situation. This is my responsibility, too, I am the Minister of Faith and Vision, and therefore I am committed to lifting the freedom of belief. The reason why we did not want a ban on conversion therapy is that it is banned today, and that the framework in the debate would also affect cases that would restrict the ability of human and religious communities to believe and believe things that are different from the current social norm. There I am concerned that we need to find a good balance – both to do more so that people do not experience what it makes incredibly bad to see that they have experienced, while at the same time preserving the religious community and freedom of belief in a liberal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e90	What the Council of State says is wrong. We've seen that, for example. in the documents of the VG. Organised practice of homotherapy is legal today – and it has to end. Governments cannot turn the blind eye to. It is dangerous for children and young people, and that is why we must have a ban. It is about protecting young people and children from such a practice – to send a clear signal to those who are involved in this offensive, discriminatory and life-threatening practice that they must stop, and to tell those who are exposed to it: you should not have to find this. Does the Council not see that not wanting to have a ban sends a clear signal to the religious forces that are doing this that it is ok, and an equally clear signal to children and young people who are exposed to it, that this is what we think is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e95	I hope it sends a very clear signal that I am as clear as I am in these questions. The interesting thing, which at least I've registered in the debate that has been, is that I haven't seen one religious community that has said that they want to perform therapy to make people change orientation. On the contrary, everyone has either gone away from it or at least said very clearly that here you have to be very careful. I believe that the debate that has been on conversion therapy has also done something about the awareness and responsibility that leaders have in conversation with vulnerable people. I'm busy that we're going to do more to stop it. Therefore, I would like the debate to focus on what we can do in dialogue with religious communities and other ways of ensuring that young and vulnerable people are not subjected to harmful treatment. This has affected alternative treatment, as it will harm people to try to change their orientation. That is why it will also be affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e100	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e105	I don't know if it was a cat that got out of a bag, but at least the Council of State pointed out that it's a disease – and that's not it. What the Council of State has now said about therapy is an important problem area for some children and young people. So the Council of State has not taken the time to come here and explain to the Council about child protection, while the Minister of Health has gone into the VG and said that there may be a systemic flaw in child protection. The Council of State points out in the VG that Buffetat has to do his job, so it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that children receive health care. Why has the Council of State not seized the opportunity to raise a proper debate on child protection, which is also a serious human rights issue, to the Stortinget and have the Stortinget involved in the dialogue that is now taking place on child protection in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e114	The president just wants to remind us that follow-up questions will follow up on the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e119	First, I want to take a strong distance from the accusation that I have said that homophilia is a disease. I haven't said that, and I'm reacting to being lifted the way it actually is. On the contrary, I have stood here and distanced myself from conversion therapy. That is why I ask for respect for that view. I'd like to talk about child protection, because we see that there are major challenges in child protection. Last week we had a broad debate in Stortinget, the week before that we had a number of rounds, next month we're going to have a budget debate with a lot of focus on child protection. I am happy to talk about child protection, because the major challenges we are facing are, whether it is that we are now working on new child protection laws, that we are going to implement a child protection reform, or that we are going on with a historical commitment to competence, because we know that it is crucial to be able to make the right decisions in the difficult dilemmas we face. So the government is doing a lot of good work, and this has a big focus on the government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e127	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e132	It would have been natural for the Council of State to come to Stortinget to explain the crisis and human rights violations in Norwegian child protection. Instead, the state councils have been busy with other concerns, you can register. Last week, he was committed to combating one-child policy in Norway. He wanted to fight with beaks and claws. I think the Council of State chose a rather animal metaphor. He was also concerned about separating human dignity from the animal world. I would like to ask the Council of State: which parties in Norway are the ones that are calling for a single-child policy, and who is it that he wants to fight with beaks and claws so that it will not become a reality in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e137	As I said very clearly, I do not see the implementation of a single-child policy as a challenge in Norway, fortunately. That's why I also said very clearly that I don't think of this as a real problem issue, but yes, as Christian Party leader, I've been busy lifting human dignity. I can promise the Storting that I will continue to do that, for what value you attribute to man, also matters to what policy you develop. I have no doubt that the assumption that all people have the same unique value is a good starting point for building policies. Then I'm going to warn against equalising the value of humans and animals, and I'm going to make it clear that I'm talking about currents in the European Green Movement, which are also addressing drastic measures to reduce population growth. I think that is dramatic, and I also warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e142	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e147	It could probably serve the climate of debate that the Council of State puts away its beaks and claws. Last fall, the Christian People's Party made a choice. The former party leader of the Christian People's Party, including the former Minister for the Environment, raised a debate environment in which opinions and attitudes that they did not have were not allowed to be expressed by their political opponents. Is it also part of the political distinction that you have left it? It is strange to me that the politician in Norway who has the constitutional responsibility for family policy is the one who pulls a child policy into the squares, and even has to fight it with beaks and claws.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e152	The President will recall that there are now a lot of issues that are being followed up on the follow-up question. I follow up my call for follow-up questions to follow up on the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e157	I am very clear that I want to try to conduct a debate on human vision in a sober way. It's a demanding topic to discuss. When the representative is busy not adding any other opinions, I agree. That's why I've said very clearly, repeatedly, that my speech to the government of the Christian People's Party was about human vision. I warned against equating people and animals, and I warned against some currents in the green European movement. I have repeatedly said that I have not been attacked by any party. I have wanted to raise a completely different debate. Then there are examples of actions, which I mentioned instead, that I warn against, but this is a completely different debate, and it may require a different arena than the Questionnaire in order to have an understanding and good debate on what human view we are going to use to develop policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e164	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e169	It's at least the Biggest theme to discuss laws and rules, and very many times the Christian People's Party is concerned with the normative effect of the laws. For example, in the view of prostitution, where the Advance Party and the Right disagree with the Christian People's Party, the Christian People's Party has been passed, because then the law of prostitution, the prohibition, has a normative effect. Then the question is, if it is the case that the Council of State Ropstad takes such a great distance from homotherapy as he does – we see that the law does not work, there are many children and young people who have been subjected to abuse and through inhuman treatment – why not take a legislative position on the law here? One has it in terms of prostitution, it admits the Christian People's Party. Why won't the Council of State Ropstad support a legislative change, so that we get norm changes in society in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e174	Because it's forbidden, and because I think it's obvious whether it's assault, violence or harmful treatment. I have been concerned that a good person can monitor to see how the legislation is today, but a ban I have warned against because I want to stand up for the freedom of belief. I believe that it must be fully possible to balance these considerations and have a law that ensures vulnerable people who have been subjected to terrible things – and that is where, as I said, we must also work with attitudes of the leaders of the different religious communities, so that they meet vulnerable people in a good way – and in parallel with that, they can guarantee freedom of belief. It must also be that religious communities must be able to believe and believe things that large parts of the rest of society either disagree with or try to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e181	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e187	I think everyone here agrees on freedom of belief, and a lot of representatives of different communities have gone out to ban that kind of homotherapy. This is not about freedom of faith. This is about the treatment of vulnerable individuals. I think the council jumps a little over the way the laws can change people. We have seen it in the view of the marriage law, which the Christian People's Party opposed. It led to enormous changes in attitudes in Norwegian society. The law of prostitution has not worked so well in terms of criminal prosecution, but norms have changed, and people have got a more negative view of prostitution. This balance that the Council of State is talking about so nicely, we know that it doesn't work. Will the Council of State contact people who have been subjected to homotherapy and say that this balance is working, or will he say that there is actually a need for a change of norm here, and then we also need a change of laws to prohibit this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e196	Now I have followed this debate quite closely over a long time, and I have recorded that many from the political environment have also raised the issue of bans on things that are far into the internal affairs of a religious community, which I believe will break with freedom of belief. Therefore, I have been concerned that when discussing conversion therapy, a person should make some limitations on what it might be. What I believe should be banned, or banned today, is what is about coercion and is happening against one’s will, assault and violence – something like that. The VG-documenter showed, and which is repugnant and prohibited — and the treatment or therapy that would obviously harm these people. It's hit by the law today. I am pleased that the debate has shown, and I agree with the representative that the religious communities that have spoken have been clear that this is not a practice a wish – at least I have not registered anyone – and that this should be prohibited.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e203	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e208	There's a lot of scrambler in this line exchange. One thing is that government council Ropstad both states that homotherapy is forbidden, and warns against a ban. But perhaps the greatest confusion and contradiction in this issue is the great, open gap between the Ropstad defense of human dignity against the fictitious attacks of the environmental movement and the lack of defence of the human world of the skews, which are trampled on through, for example, the organised homotherapy. Rupstad has spent a lot of time in the last few weeks defending human dignity, but obviously it is not the human dignity of skewers. Other examples that could be taken up are that on Sunday a nine-month-old baby died in the Moria camp in Greece, and that in the Al-Hol camp there is still a Norwegian sick child. Why is the human dignity of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad so sluggish?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e213	Let me underline once again: I mean all people have the same value – point. This is about a completely different discussion. Therefore, when the representative addresses whether it's the refugee situation or there's the situation for the children in the Al-Hol camp, I can be very clear that the Christian People's Party has fought, and we were very happy that five orphan children came home. The guy who's sick, too, we've offered medical treatment. With regard to the refugee situation, we are very concerned that Norway has a great responsibility to contribute. Therefore, I am very proud that Norway accepts 3,000 quota refugees – record many. That's about three times as many as when the red-green fell. It's a clear signal that we're going to take responsibility, and we're doing it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e218	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e223	After all, there is still a wide gap between it – to put it that way – the clear defence of human dignity against the fictitious attacks from the environmental movement of the Council of State Ropstad versus the lack of defence of the human dignity of skeptics who are being attacked in religious and life-view societies. Therefore, I must ask the Council of State to respond to whether he believes that the human dignity of these people who are not allowed to be who they want to be is being violated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e228	If people are subjected to abuse, violence, or for this therapy or treatment, I believe it violates their human dignity. That's why I take a clear distance from it, and that's why I'm happy that it's forbidden. Then there's these other dilemmas that we've also talked about. I have not met any religious communities – of those I have visited and been in dialogue with – who say that those people will not be allowed to be who they are. That means that one also values each person with the unique value it has. And then I also think that one has to work with attitudes, because I think it's a lot that the representative really points to, that even with SV's proposal for conversion therapy would not have been hit by the ban, if I interpret him correctly. Then it's about how to meet people who are very vulnerable, and then you have to do it in a good way. There is a great responsibility on the leaders of the religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e233	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e238	In Norway and internationally, we see examples of the threat to freedom of life. The number of violent attacks against Jews is increasing. Hatred, prejudice and violence against Muslims are taking hold, and the NRK recently reported that the persecution of Christians is increasing worldwide. Violence against sloppy and sexual minorities, we see a lot of it. Our answer must be to ensure the diversity and respect of different human views and values – it protects against intolerance, extremism and totalitarian regimes. But it requires mutual understanding and respect for different life views and political opinions. The accusations of the Council of State against the green movement, of which the Green Party in Norway is part, are in stark contrast to this. Does the Council of State agree that different human views, including the view that man is part of nature, do not stand in the way of believing and recognizing that human dignity is inviolable?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e245	Yeah, I totally agree with that. That is also why what is challenging in the debate is that it is quickly becoming so that there is one view of human beings that is good, and then the other is reprehensible. I didn't say that. I disagree with a number of other human views, whether liberalism or Marxism, which have a different starting point for the view of man, and which therefore choose other solutions when they get political issues. I promise the Christian vision: the view of man that all men are inviolable, the view of man that we are created for freedom, but also for communion. That's why I'm busy lifting up the small communities, and the most important community is the family. But we are also created with some cultural, spiritual needs, so that it is not just the material that is important to man, but the non-material, for example. Freedom of belief, is important. That's how one could still have. What is my starting point, however, does not mean that I believe that other human views are reprehensible, or that one should not be allowed to have them, but I believe that Christian human vision is the best starting point for building politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e253	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e258	The Council of State has claimed that attitudes in the green movement are a threat to our society. So there must be something wrong when there is such a big threat. Minister of Children and Family Ropstad has also argued that it is an important threat that parts of the growing green movement come with dangerous goods that completely reject – he claims – the idea of man’s inherent self-esteem. These are unacceptable fault accusations and a strawman's argumentation. And when the Council of State is confronted with that, he answers by making himself a victim and claiming that we are deliberately misinterpreting what he says. Today, we woke up to the news that the trust of Norwegian top politicians is at a bulwark level. Does the Council of State believe that the argumentation, fault accusations and victim role of a Council of State contribute to strengthening or weakening the confidence of Norwegian top politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e267	I mean what I've been saying all along: that parts of the European Green Movement have some dangerous ideas, whether it's about drastic measures on population growth, which I'm going to warn against, or it's about one of the thinkers, Peter Singer, who has also fronted some of the vision that I think is very dangerous. I have never attacked the mainstream environment movement – large parts of the environmental movement – or the Greens. That is why I am pleased that Une Bastholm has also been as clear as she has been in this discussion. I'm still going to fight for the climate issue. It's one of the most important issues, even when you take care of the management responsibility. The Christian People's Party has always been concerned with the environment and climate, and we're still going to be. I hope that we can still be good allies with the environmental movement and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e274	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e279	I have long believed that the Greens have much in common with parts of the Christian People's Party, such as the view of international solidarity, civil society, tolerance and human rights. We have shared the criticism of an overly materialistic and consumption-oriented society, where values and principles are subordinated to economic considerations. The party program of the Christian People's Party emphasises the responsibility of the administration and man to nature and future generations. This is a political project that the Greens are pushing to the chest. Does the Minister for Children and the Family consider it important to promote solidarity between people living today, the solidarity of future generations and solidarity between people and nature and animals as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e288	I have always been in my political commitment to managing the administrative responsibility, managing the resources we have today, for the best of all people – in Norway, but also globally. If there's something upsetting me, it's the global injustice and the great poverty. I know very well that there is someone who is hard hit when climate change comes in too full, the world's poorest, those who don't have the opportunity to move even if the crop fails, those who don't have the opportunity to build up the house when the hurricane blows it down again. It is the most vulnerable, the poorest – which, paradoxically, have not contributed to climate change. That is why the Christian People's Party's starting point is so clear that we take responsibility for the administration seriously and that we want offensive climate policies. That's why we've fought what we've done, either up against the government or in the government platform, for the different measures that luckily start getting emissions down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e293	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e298	I appreciate a good value debate, and I also think that the Council of State has been able to achieve a debate on human vision in Norway over the past few weeks. Me and the Greens believe that man is part of nature, that man is not above nature, but that we are vulnerable depending on a balance in nature, and that we have a moral responsibility to take care of it. Does the Council of State Rupstad mean that man is above nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e305	Yes, I believe we are above nature and are set to manage nature. But the unrelenting destruction of nature is a policy and a way of dealing with nature that I take a great distance from. I am concerned that man is not a problem, but that man is the goal, and I am pursuing a policy to ensure that all people are well. But that doesn't mean that I want animals to have it hurt, or that we're going to ruin nature. On the contrary, I have been involved in various measures to lift animal rights. This majority and that government has even introduced animal police, which is an important measure to ensure that humans do not commit violence against or abuse their animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e312	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e317	My question goes to Minister Dale. More international transport and cabotage services provide unhealthy competition in the transport sector. The driver has a huge pressure from both the employer and the contractor. They drive heavy cars with small margins, and it is extra demanding in winter. 70 pst. of the controlled foreign drivers, they have illegally low wages and, in addition, many work under other illegal and unworthy conditions. In Norway, there are foreign drivers who drive payrolls down to 30 kroner an hour, live in the car for weeks and months, make food out on prime and go to the woods. They can't afford to rent a room even if it's 20-30 minus degrees out. Norwegian winter roads require good, rested drivers, adapted equipment and proper tyres. Inspectors meet foreign drivers who cheer for bad tyres to be discovered, because the employer believes that they can drive for a while on worn-out tyres. So today's unhealthy competition not only leads to a heavy pressure on drivers and Norwegian transport industries, it also leads to dangerous heavy transport on Norwegian winter roads. It is a good principle that the driver of the car is responsible, but when the driver works under conditions where the employer does not take pay, law and safety seriously, does the Council not see the need for stronger instruments, in addition to making the individual driver responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e329	The answer to that is actually that yes, I see that. That's why we also work a lot with tightening up the cabotage code. We do that through a pan-European cooperation with a lot of Western European countries in the so-called Road Alliance. For several years, the Norwegian position and government's work have been about getting a cabotage code that allows us both to obtain an efficient, safe and safe flow of goods into and out of Norway, and enables us to help us to have a viable Norwegian industry in the future. This work has been a long one, and the last proposal we received from the European Commission before the new EU elections was a seven-mile step in the right direction, also on the basis of the Norwegian interests that the government is constantly preoccupied with. Fortunately, the number of serious accidents on Norwegian winter roads, where there are fatal outcomes at least, goes down. There has been a targeted, systematic effort over the last six years to tighten up the legislation, to keep more supervision and controls, and not least to keep them going and to get those cars that have nothing to do on Norwegian winter roads away from the road. For this reason, laws are stricter, and regulatory action is more stringent and therefore controls have increased. This is a work that will continue in the coming years. New legislation is already in place from this winter season. Additional restrictions will be introduced next year, and control activity will increase. If no wallet is provided for Norwegian winter roads, one should not be there, be there either Norwegian or foreign carriers. These cars are therefore our job to get off the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e338	New tyre requirements are the approval of an EU directive. We approve about 500 new rules every year. Today, the EEA Agreement consists of more than 11,000 laws and rules that we have to adhere to. One of the laws says that we cannot impose stricter requirements on foreign drivers because the competence requirements for drivers are harmonised in the EEA area. In fact, it is not possible to have self-regulatory rules for drivers driving on winter roads in Norway, although they have taken driving training and are used to driving much further south in Europe. So we can't set these requirements, even if this is too bad. [[President clubs]] In the absence of restrictions on EEA law, how will the Council of State design requirements for competence and tyres?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e343	First of all, I think it's a strength for us to have a pan-European code to be able to drive a heavy-duty car, so that we actually get to the cross-border transport that Norwegian business, especially in the districts, is totally dependent on. At the same time, whether one is busy with Norwegian road safety, as the government is, we need to look at the sum of the measures that help. When 75 pst. Of the fatal accidents we have had on the Norwegian road in the last four years, with Norwegian drivers in the truck, we have to work more broadly than the Senterpartie tries to address as a main challenge, namely that it is the foreigners who come here to drive a truck. It's also part of the challenge when they're not cut or not sufficiently competent, and it's in place in a pan-European legislation from 2020, but we have a bigger job to do in our own transport industry too to actually increase road safety on the Norwegian road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e348	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sandra Borch.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e353	Last week I visited the truck industry in North Norway to learn about their experience with the alpine marking that Norway is going to introduce on deck. Everyone is rightly very sceptical about these new demands. We've witnessed many terrible fatal accidents in recent years, and many near-accidents. People have rightly been afraid to drive a car on Norwegian winter roads and feel that it is luck to get there in view of whether or not you arrive. That's not the way it should be, and it's the council that's in charge and has the room for action to do something about it. In Norway, we have stricter requirements for tyres on passenger cars than we have for trucks. There is no requirement even for the tyres on the trailers. The Alpine marking, which the Council of State boasts, is not good enough. It is appropriate to introduce separate Nordic rules for Norwegian winter road truck tyres, as is the case for passenger cars. Does the Council of State continue to believe that the alpine marking is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e362	It's the best winter cover available per now, and that's why we regulate it in place. We will be the first country in the world with such strict demands on winter tyres, when we now introduce it. It is an important step in the right direction, a seven-mile step from most of the time when the Senterparte last put in government, and there was no requirement for winter tyres on trucks at all. So it's been a lot to do again. But we've got results when we've done it, because we've been working systematically. It is Norway's Lastebileier-Federal that has recommended that it is covered we go for as a normative requirement for Norwegian truck industry. For the last six years, we've had the number of fatal accidents involving a heavy - duty car, 55 pst. It's still that an accident is too much, but we've got good results from doing what's professionally right, and not cutting the cheapest political points – and it's going to continue with the next few years as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e369	Bengt Fasterøne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e374	The latest yesterday the same thing happened again: a truck crashed into a house wall, several car combinations were stuck on the E6, cars without chain across and across. I don't know. Yesterday at 5:30 p.m., I met one of them in the Gudbrand valley and had to turn into a gas station – which happened to be the possibility right then. I was happy, but it was unpleasant. It's not getting any better, it's getting worse. Governments talk about anomalies, illegal states and crime, technology, selection methods, risk-based supervision and common harmonised legislation. The council also says that we can not only hunt for the non-resident carriers, many accidents also happen with Norwegian vehicles. We have to make the same demands for everyone. The Council of State and the Secretary of State say that there is quality and quality, rather than labelling, which means something. It is the driver who is responsible and who we can make responsible. I agree. It means to set strict requirements for the car and driver. Will the Council of State ensure that the same driving licence training requirements are set for foreign drivers and Norwegians and that the Alpine symbol does not become a safe and pure symbol policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e383	There is no symbolic policy to introduce requirements for the best winter cover available on the market. It is a cheap insurance to equip trucks with the best equipment available. We've done that, we think we have an impact, and it's recommended that a whole Norwegian truck industry and a lot of actors through the many listening rounds we've done. But we're not just doing that, we're doing it while we're tightening up sanctions, the ability to hold back trucks so they don't get out of the road again if they're not spared to be there, punishing more clearly, common controls between the State Road Service, the Labour Inspectorate and the police, and increasing the control activity of the State Road Service. That's the sum of measures we're taking, which means that the death toll goes down – fortunately – and there's still a piece left. However, systematic work is required, and that means that the grips that have now been taken, which will also be taken when a new European legislation on training on heavy goods vehicles, are important steps on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e388	Kirsti Leirtrö – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e393	Stricter requirements for winter tyres are important, but if you do not have the right skills and experience as a driver, the tyres alone will not save you. We see today, unfortunately, that the number of Norwegian drivers is falling, while the number of foreign drivers is rising. It would have been nice if the EU mobility package also included international demands for winter competence. What is now on the table of the EU is not good enough, says the Transport and Logistics Association. We believe that Norwegian winter roads require special competence, such as smooth driving and training. If the European Union does not see this need, we believe that we need to require strange rules. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e401	Our starting point has been, through the work on the mobility package – which has not yet been finalised in the EU system, and therefore not from our side – to ensure that legislation is as strict as it is possible to achieve. That's still our starting point. This means that when it comes to the competence of drivers, a cabotage code that is feasible to enforce – and which is isolated, if we do so, can also reduce the number of foreign vehicle combinations – and also through the systematic work done in that package, it will actually contribute to a level playing field for Norwegian transport industries compared to foreign transport. It has been the Norwegian positions for several years, and the government has been working a lot and systematically towards other European countries that are some of us, to get an impact on it. Sorry, that work is not finished. That means that I still have hopes that we will get a mobility package that provides a harmonised code of Norwegian interest, and I will not give up until we have come further than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e408	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e413	In order to improve control of non-resident road trains and all international transport by Norwegian roads, it is necessary to know what is happening on Norwegian roads. Today we have virtually no knowledge of how many foreign car combinations are on the roads, what they do when they unload and load, and when they run out again. Transport organisations have, for a long time, had a crucial role on the agenda: to gain control of this cabotage legislation and thus to have the minimum wage made public, to stop social dumping, namely through a digital transport register in which all international transport, loading and unloading are recorded. We see that the introduction of this practice is practised by the government over and over again, and the Council of State is always pushing ahead with the EEA legislation, while other EEA countries are taking action on this issue. As a result, Norway has almost become a haven. Why does the Council of State not want to introduce this, seas on EU legislation — for example: Regulation 1072/2009 - does that provide an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e418	Norway is not a refuge. Norway has some of the most stringent rules to comply with. We are actively working to tighten up further, and we are doing what we can to ensure both the competitiveness of Norwegian business – i.e. the transport industry – ensure that Norwegian business functions and that we actually get the goods into and out of the country, and that this is done in as safe a way as possible. That's one of the reasons why we're doing this. submit the electronic consignment note system. We also look at whether there is a basis for making it mandatory for parts of the transport industry. So it's not right, what the representative Nävra is trying to make, that we're passive and trying to train. We are working with the measures that actually work for a comprehensive Norwegian transport industry – whether it concerns cabotage legislation, the design and equipment of heavy cars, the competence of drivers or systematic control to take them as cheats, criminals, and get them by the Norwegian route.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e423	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e428	My question goes to Minister for Climate and Environment, Ola Elvestuen. Soon the winter will come, soon it will come cold, fine time and hopefully lack a great ski trip. But with the winter and the skis and the competition, the pollutant fluorine also sneaks into some of the skis. In the last few weeks, several media have highlighted the environmental and health consequences of the fluorine toxin, both for those who use the lubrication and for those who produce it. Skismers who have worked for Norwegian long-haulers, and people who have skied for their children with fluorine, can tell about severe health problems. Doctors are open to the possibility that this may be the cause of – or also contribute to – cancer. In the worst cases, fluorine lubrication may have contributed to cancer and death. In addition, this is a serious environmental problem. Recently, a researcher found environmental toxins from skiing in living organisms in the ski area of Granåsen in Trondheim. In the earthworm, the total content of fluorinated pollutants was 35 pst. higher in the ski resort than in the areas used for comparison areas. This matter is now so serious that we have to respond. The use of fluorine lubrication is therefore prohibited for sporting events for children under 16 years of age. Yesterday, SV proposed to ban the use of fluorine lubrication at all sporting events in Norway, including international. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: Does he agree with SV that we must ban the use of fluorine lubrication at all sporting events in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e443	What I fully agree with is that we have to ban PFAS substances, that is fluorine, but then many more substances than what is just in skistorage. We are actively working, and have done so for several years, within European chemicals legislation to drive forward a broader ban. That's the ban line that we have. Where this is done, it is difficult and demanding to make their own national bans. This is done under chemicals legislation, and we have an active role within it. There's no doubt about it. But then there's nothing to stop the Ski Federation or we're going to take the initiative to stop the use of fluorine in lubrication. Therefore, we should also contact both the Ski Federation and the various actors in order to put a stop to the use of fluorine. It has also been a collaboration with Swix in the past to look at a research programme, which we support, to find alternatives to fluorine in skimming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e450	I thank you for your answer. I record that the Council of State will leave this responsibility to the Ski Federation and the organizers of the sports races. But that is how we have different national legislation in other areas relating to winter sports events. We have different legislation for example. alcohol advertising. We have not left it to the Ski Federation to govern it, but we have introduced a national legislation. But I have another question for Elvesuen: Will the Minister for Climate and Environment at least make sure that we get a real danger label glued to the skimmer that contains fluorine, until we have an international ban on this type of lubrication in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e457	As I said, an international, separate ban is demanding. That's where we work through the chemical code. Just what we're going to agree on – marking or not – I don't have a response to now, but what I'm going to do is take an initiative towards both the Ski Federation and the industry that produces this ski smearing, to see what's going to be the next step we have to take to stop fluorine in ski smearing. Because there is no doubt that this is unnecessary, it is environmentally damaging, and it causes health damage. This is not about whether to end the use of it – it's about when and how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e462	It opens for follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e467	I thank you again for the answer. I have another question for Elvesuen. There is a certain danger that some of the claims made by the lubricating companies may also be harmful to health and the environment. This applies, inter alia, to: the alternatives that have shorter fluorine chains in them than those most sold today. The question then is: will the Council of State ensure that producers of skimming must prove the safety of lubrication to humans and the environment before it is permitted to be put into service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e473	This is always a problem when imposing bans — which substitutes arise and whether there are problems with them as well. We now have a major effort to tackle perfluorocarbons in chemicals legislation, where we need a broader ban. There we also have good cooperation with other countries. We used to get a ban on what are PFOA substances. We always have to go to see what alternatives are there to ensure that they do not cause other environmental or health damage. It must also be part of the work we are doing on chemicals legislation, and the work we are working towards the industry and the Ski Federation on how to deal with the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e478	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e483	My question also goes to the climate minister. Now it is one month for Norway to achieve our climate targets for 2020. This government has for six years said that those objectives should have been reinforced. Now we know what the fasit is: there was no reinforcement, there was a crash landing, because Norway is not going to be near our goals. This government has had no policy to achieve climate change. I think a very good picture of why we are not succeeding was when the Minister of Economic Affairs met in Stortinget and was asked about the status of the climate goals. Then he replied that he did not know what the climate targets were, he did not know if we were on the route to reach them, nor did he believe that as Minister of Industry he had a responsibility to reach them. But if we are to achieve our climate goals, everyone has to include: business, employers, workers, the public sector and environmental organisations. And even though we from this government hear from the Council of State that the environmental movement is almost one of the greatest threats facing Norway, we believe that all good forces are essential for Norway to succeed in climate action. Now it is almost five years since the Stortinget decided that we should establish a climate agreement with the EU by 2030. Soon the date when Ola Elvestuen will submit the climate plan will come, but as the only European country, Norway has chosen to keep this secret, and it has not been consulted among those who will be involved and implement it. That's the recipe that we're not going to achieve our goal. The government's climate policy doesn't get any better because it's secret; it's more an illustration that we don't have the answers to how the cuts are going to be done and how big they are going to be. That's exactly why you should have brought people with you instead of clicking the door again. My question to the climate minister is therefore: why has he, as the only climate minister in Europe, chosen not to allow a few insights into what he will submit as a climate plan for 2030, and why does he think that this work will be better if it is not sent out to the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e496	Now Norway is not a member of the EU, so we have a different legislation. It is right that the preliminary 28 EU countries should submit is a climate and energy plan, and it should also be consulted publicly. Energy is not part of the consensus Norway and Iceland have with the EU, so what we are going to present is a climate plan, a status report on how to achieve the 2030 targets. But it is a status report, and we will present it with exactly the same rules as the EU countries do, just as far as that part of this report and plan is concerned. Then we come to next year with a plan for Stortinget. We now have a climate cure out to all our establishments. There, we will present the plan of actions and measures we need to take to achieve the target of at least 45 pst. So we're going beyond the obligation we have with the EU with the consensus we now have, at least 45 pst. reduction in the non-quota sector in Norway. This is a broad, comprehensive work and will be a broad, comprehensive work before the plan is presented to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget will be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e507	I really don't feel like the Council of State answered the question completely. I am aware that Norway is not a member of the EU, but we have now said that we should have a joint implementation in this matter. What's a paradox to this government's climate policy is that somehow magically everything has to be solved with some plan to come next year. It's been the tone of this government for five years. But then I give the council the opportunity to respond again immediately: does he think it would have been an advantage if the plan we had now submitted for 2020 had been sent out to the hearing? Does he agree that it would have been an advantage if it had been done? And if the answer to that is yes: Has the EU been contacted so that Norway could possibly have a short postponement, so that Norway could do the same job as other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e514	As I said, this is primarily a status report, and it is important that we now follow the rules of the EU countries and deliver them before January. The reason why we don't have a hearing is that it's not part of the requirements for us. It is also the case that the EEA Committee approved this agreement as late as the end of October, so the time is short for it to be put in place. But this is a status report on what plans we have to achieve the targets. And then the big plan comes later. Otherwise, I totally disagree that we are not acting. If there's something we're doing, it's acting. The results we have with public transport, what is going on in bringing down emissions in the big cities, are definitely also part of the government's initiative – 250 000 electric cars, we have zero-emission funds against heavy transport, we have green shipping going forward. In the area by region, Norway is at the forefront of what is happening to reduce emissions from the transport sector and other sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e523	It opens for follow-up questions – first Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e528	After all, it is not possible to interpret the Council of State differently from the fact that this is a deliberate act, that it is true that it is not going to be consulted, and that he believes that the work is improved by keeping it secret, or in that case it is so little to send out to the hearing because it is so little in this plan. This is nouveau from Ola Elvestuen. It shows that what Abid Raja said this weekend, that the climate issue is about to slip between our fingers, on the Left Party, is true. That's the result of the company with the Progress Party, and now also with the Christian People's Party, what kind of climate policy they have. Instead of giving the council a long list of boasts, I want to give him the opportunity to be a little self-reflective. Now he has been one of the most important climate politicians in Norway for the last six years, first as head of the Environment Committee at the Grand Council of the majority and now as Council of State. Is the Minister for Climate Change satisfied with the government's efforts to achieve the 2020 climate target?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e537	With the reinforcement we've been given, especially in transport, we're all in front of the world to reduce emissions. However, the technological developments we need for this to become more widespread in the areas of heavy transport and shipping make it possible for both ships and what is now technological development to take time before it is put into service. But the position we have in order to bring down emissions in Norway – where we are at the forefront, we are also developing new technologies that are important to the world, whether it is liquid sea wind, it is to be completely ahead of carbon capture and storage or innovation in Norwegian industry – we must strengthen, and we have strengthened it. And then we have an international leadership role with the rainforest effort that Norway is leading, but also against the negotiations and reinforcements of the Paris Agreement, towards what is taking care of natural solutions, to establish an agreement within the Convention on Biological Diversity also internationally. Norway has a leading role, and the Left is driving it forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e542	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e547	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Transport. If we are to reach the climate commitments that we have just heard about, there is a lot to be done in the transport sector. This is why, among other things, the zero growth target defined and determined in its time, i.e. zero growth in car traffic in the major cities and the growth of traffic to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. In a letter to the municipalities in Northern Ireland recently – 14 November, I believe it was – the Minister of Transport uses the wording that one should achieve the zero growth target in force at all times. But zero growth is zero growth. Zero is zero. It's hard to define zero in any other way. So my question is simply: does zero growth in car traffic mean zero growth, or does it mean anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e555	Today we have a current zero growth target – I fully agree with the representative Myrli, and this is also stated in the letter – in the four largest urban areas. Then the government on the platform and in what is later referred to as the toll agreement from in the fall, have said that we should further develop the zero growth target. That's why I said in the letter that if we come up with a further developed zero growth target, it must of course be the basis of the agreements we have with the urban areas. That work has not been completed, and that means that until that work is done, we stick to the current zero growth target, which the representative clearly did for himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e560	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e565	Then the climate and environment minister can come back, because I have a follow-up question for him. The left has been one of the drivers of the policy behind the zero growth target, i.e. zero growth in car traffic in the big cities. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment – after hearing the Minister for Transport – is how he will now signal the new policy to the government of the municipal politicians in Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim, who are in the midst of important negotiations on what kind of policy to pursue to achieve the overall objectives, including the zero growth target. So then I ask this question to the Minister for Climate and Environment: does he agree with the considerations of the Minister for Transport that zero growth may not mean zero growth in car traffic, or is the goal still that there will be zero growth in car traffic in our major urban areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e572	The aim is that there should be zero growth in car traffic in the major cities. The left has not only been a driver of this goal; we have also been a driver of state action to help cities achieve this goal. I remember that when I was sitting as the City Council in Oslo, the state support for the big cities was zero, also with the red-green government. Today, there is considerable support both for the largest projects in the big cities, for what is rewarding to the big cities, for delegating authority to the big cities, whether it is to create their own environmental zones or to impose climate requirements on the taxi industry, or – for Oslo – simply to ask for something as simple as getting a divorce authority. So there's support for and cooperation with the state today towards the big cities to achieve this goal that we've never been close to before. So this is both about actually achieving the goals in cooperation – there is the Left one pusher – and of course about the fact that the zero growth target is important to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e577	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e582	The Council of State says the secret is because Norway has a different legislation from the EU because we are not members. There's a strange reason for keeping secrets. Norway is in a proud tradition of more publicity, and I also thought the Left liked to be in that tradition. So the Council of State says that some reason is that we're going to send over a status report on what plans we have to achieve the targets. After this round I am not sure what plans we have, because the council also says that there will be a new plan next year. With respect to reporting: this sounds more like excuses. We have to be able to have openness around this. Has the Council of State taken initiatives towards the EU to put an end to the deadline so that we can implement a good, anchored, democratic and open process of climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e589	It is fascinating to hear how busy the Centre Party is that we should follow the rules within the EU and the EEA, and we do, of course. This is a plan that Norway and Iceland agree in the agreement that we should provide on a voluntary basis. This applies only to the climate component – not to the energy component, because it is not part of this agreement, it is part of the EEA system. Here it is important that we now present the status of our work on the climate component. We do it the same way as EU countries, and it is important that we also follow the timetable. I don't see any reason why we're going to need to have this postponement. The large plan for achieving the objectives is being implemented by the Directorate for the Environment and other Directorates. They are presenting their proposal, and we are going to provide a broad consultation and proposals for it to the Stortinget. This is what is important for the future climate policy for Norway over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e598	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e603	I come from the wolf zone, and the government treats us almost like a zoo. Recently, a wolf did great damage in grazing priority areas outside the wolf zone. The county councilman gave birth permit, but the government stopped shooting the wolf and decided that instead it was to be moved by helicopter into the wolf zone. There are now three known in Norway to use private helicopters in the name of the environment — Petter and Gunhild Stordalen and the wolf. It's very expensive, and the wolf zone is already flooded by the wolf. The Storting has clearly stated that the wolf zone should not be a wolf reserve. The wolf must also be managed and shot inside the wolf zone when there are too many wolves. That's it now. The use of large sums on helicopters, on anesthetic and on examinations to move a wolf into the wolf zone, where it runs over by the wolf from before, appears to be very provocative and completely headless. In addition, it is particularly provocative that the rapporteur and the elected representatives in Kongsvinger municipality, where the wolf was placed, were never asked if this was right for the local population. Does the government understand that it is deeply provocative for people both inside and outside the wolf zone when you once again experience that the government does not listen to them and shoot the wolf, but instead chooses to waste money on helicopters and other things to move it into the wolf zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e612	No, I guess I thought maybe you'd rather be positive that we acted as fast as we've done. The big losses the representative mentions are damage to three tamreins. The reason why we stopped this permit is that this is a genetically important wolf because this is a wolf that comes straight from Finland, and we need that. The biggest threat to the wolf population in southern Scandinavia is genetics and inbreeding. So this wolf is important, and therefore we acted so quickly to track it down to get it marked and also moved into the area by Kongswinger. And after examination, it's not just to put it down right away; you have to find an area where you have contact with the landowner – this was Statskog's property – and where it doesn't go into existing territory. So this is an important wolf for the population in South Scandinavia. In the last case about the wolf that was for Stortinget, it is pointed out that it is important that we get the wolf from Finland, because it will improve the genetics and make it possible for us to have stock management with fewer wolves than if we don't. Because if we don't have wolves coming in, we'll need more wolves in Sweden and Norway than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e619	The concept of ‘genetically important wolf’ was introduced by the State Council itself to the Storting in April last year. I think it's pretty scary that now it's become a quite natural reason to stop shooting the wolf outside of the wolf's son, and that you almost don't put any question marks on, but this has never been part of the robber's bargain. The council is very proud that it has gone so fast, but does the council know what the fastest thing to do? Well, it had actually been to pull the trigger on a rifle, so that the wolf had fallen dead again immediately. There is now no guarantee that the wolf will not wander back — out of the wolf’s son and into vulnerable pastures. What will the Council of State do? I wonder where the limit goes for how much money you're going to spend on this headless management of the wolf. Does the Council agree that the only guarantee that this wolf will not leave the wolf's son again is that it will be shot?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e631	Yes, it can happen that this wolf is also on the move. Then we have to take our own assessment of it if it happens. But I have little understanding of the argument itself. I understand that for the Center Party it is important to keep the stock of wolves down. That's exactly why it's important that the stock we have is healthy. Therefore, we also need to have the immigration from Finland, to which this wolf is an example. Because if we're going to have a wolf population that's healthy, we have to have this regular into Norway. If we do not have it – and this applies not only to Norwegian authorities but also to Swedish – the need for the population to grow will be much stronger than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e638	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e643	We record that the government is using a lot of resources to move what is called "genetically important wolf" into the wolf's son. The question is, how far does this go? As you know, the wolf is not so concerned with man-made boundaries. It is probably as little occupied with it as a former Russian submarine captain was of bounds underwater. And today, the Eastlander reports that the displaced wolf is now at full speed northwards and is observed in Grue. What if the wolf that has flown into and placed in the wolf's son once again wanders into pasture-priority areas - then the state council will again use great resources to move the wolf, and where will he possibly move it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e650	If this were to happen and it could happen, there would be a separate assessment when that situation arises. To this with genetics: it's genetically important, there's no question about it. It's a terminology and part of science that you need these to get a better genetics, and it's genetics and inbreeding that's the biggest threat to the wolf population and population in South Scandinavia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e657	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e662	The Council of State states that he is satisfied that action has now been taken quickly to take care of a genetically important wolf and avoid conflicts in grazing priority areas. At the same time, Stortinget has stated that there should not be a wolf outside the zone. Why has the Council of State not been so quick to comply with the agreement of predators and to take out wolves that have been in Trondelag and Sogn and Fjordane during the summer and harvest, and that continue to operate outside the zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e667	Now there are very fast permits, and it has been done throughout the summer. We have a high level of preparedness, and killing permits are often granted only in a few minutes. So there are no major populations of wolves outside the wolf zone. We have changed the hunting period so that licensing outside the zone now does not begin on 1 October, but on 1 December, just to give a greater chance that what are the important wolves, those who can come from Finland, also have a greater chance of entering the wolf zone, or on the Swedish side. So here are several things that are done at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e672	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e677	Now it was probably the case with the wolf in Trøndelag that the killing permit that was given there went out about when it started to be track snow, and it made killing more difficult. But to some extent, many suspect that the wolf population in Norway may be a result of environmental crime by outsourcing or breeding. On a voluntary basis, the small user team has been re-analysed in Norway over the last few years. It reinforces the suspicion that wolves in Norway, at least some of them, are the result of just environmental crime. In an article in the United Nations, the Council of State has rejected this. But would it not be better in a conflict-relieving perspective to take this seriously and provide for an objective review of the results in order to get rid of all doubts? As is now the case, the Council of State only helps to build up the fronts, increase the uncertainty and suspicion of those who believe that wolves in Norway are not the result of natural dispersal but environmental crime of the worst variety.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e684	We know very well the story of the wolf that is in Norway and Scandinavia. I guess there's no stock that's better followed than this. Then we also follow up previous decisions from Stortinget to review the existing research that is, to look at the genetics of the wolf, and we have also started a separate review of the Norwegian population, so it is followed up. But we have to reinforce the research we have. We have very good knowledge of where our wolf and our wolf population come from, and how it evolves, and that is what we need to strengthen – and also follow up on what is the decision of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e689	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e695	The government's wolf policy and the lack of follow-up to the predatory settlement are a terrible burden to those who have to live with the wolf tightly on them. We've been trying to point that out to the state council for years. It is categorically rejected and explained, but now research from Ruralis shows that sheep farmers in municipalities where sheep are taken by wolves, the last five years have a higher incidence of anxiety and depression than others, and through depth interviews in the research report, farmers tell about stress, reduced quality of life and how they do not sleep at night when they know that there is a wolf nearby. I have even met many desperate farmers, which made a strong impression on me. When we know that this affects people's health, my question is to the Council of State: are the people or the wolf the most important to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e702	We're going to follow up on both sides of this, both the robberies, the majority decision on wolves, and what is in the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. Then we have to follow the two-part goal. It is quite clear that it is a burden for those farmers who have great losses, so it will always be. But at the same time – in the big picture – the losses go down. The loss of sheep to predatory game in Norway this year is less than it has ever been since the 1990s. So in the big picture, this goes in the right direction, although there will always be some farmers who will get bigger losses, and that's of course a burden. But I'm going to follow up on what's the whole of the decision of the Storting, as regards both the stock targets we have, the international commitments we have, the law we have, while reducing the level of conflict and reducing the loss of grazing animals, and we are going to achieve that with the policy we are now pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e711	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e716	It's not very strange that the losses to the wolf go down, because you've stopped working with sheep in those areas where there is wolf. The Council of States knows that very well, so I think it's bad to use that kind of argument towards the Storting. In this debate, the Council of State has also mentioned several actions which he considers to be positive. One is the shift of hunting time to December 1. It's not really positive at all. This means that you can't hunt wolves in the elk gout, which is the time of year when there are most hunters out in the woods. So there's a perfectly conscious grip to avoid the wolf getting shot. And then you train the predatory game deal and you withdraw the killing permits on the wolf outside the wolf zone, and you want to change the predatory game subjects, so you lose local influence over licensing decisions. How can the Council of State argue that this will dampen the level of conflict and that these are measures that follow the rapprochement? I think that's the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e727	In the case of wild game learners, there are proposals that are out for consultation. These have been adopted in the Grand Duchy, and if we are going to have a change, it will also be presented to the Grand Duchy for final decisions – just like other areas that are out for consultation, which relate to the decision-making process, will be submitted to the Grand Duchy. The change in hunting time is, as I mentioned earlier, to increase the likelihood that important wolves can also enter our populations. Licensing on the wolf is effective. When the hunt begins, they are taken out very quickly in winter. That's the way it's going to be now. So there's no big problem in taking out the animals for which permission is given. By following up where there is a genetically important wolf – and that is what it is – we also follow up the predatory game settlement to take care of them as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e738	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e752	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Mani Hussaini to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative Tuva Moflag. Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete and Sigbjørn Gülsvik, respectively, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Food on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left. Question 7, from the representative of Terje Aasland to the Minister for Industry, has been withdrawn. Question 9, by Sandra Borch, to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 10, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Food, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e774	‘Because the government sees that the current EU capital requirements for banks become part of the EEA Agreement during the year, the government will already strengthen capital requirements for Norwegian banks. Refers to written question with answer No. 2290 [[2018–2019]] In sum: how can the Council of State believe that the changes proposed will not bring about changes from today’s level, and why should this not be addressed to political treatment in the Grand Duchy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e781	The purpose of capital requirements is to ensure that banks can withstand losses without having to restrict the offer of loans or, in the worst cases, go beyond the end. Good requirements are essential for financial stability and are an important part of economic policy. Current capital requirements are adapted to the risks of the Norwegian economy. The Government expects EU capital requirements rules to become part of the EEA Agreement during the year. Then we will introduce the SMB discount, and we will also have to lift the so-called Basel I floor. These changes will make the soundness of Norwegian banks more visible and promote lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the changes will also lower the real capital requirements of banks, as the requirements will be calculated differently from before. The capital requirement of today’s capital requirements was laid down in 2013, inter alia: based on experience from the international financial crisis. It is necessary to adapt the requirements in order to avoid actually excavating them. That is why I have had a proposal to maintain the real requirements at about the level of the day. The hearing ended on 30 September, and I will shortly publish how we will follow up the proposal and the hearing opinions. The power to adapt the capital requirements has been delegated by law to the Ministry of Finance. The matter should therefore not be brought before the Stortinget. The consultation proposal has been drawn up in the department, and I can assure the representative that the aim is to maintain the real requirements for Norwegian banks at about the current level. Unless the risks of each bank are to change in the future, the real capital requirements of the banks should continue to remain unchanged. This will be an important part of the overall arrangement that I will publish in a short time. In addition, in order to promote financial stability and a level playing field for Norwegian and foreign banks, the consultation proposal emphasises that the requirements should be designed to apply to all banks operating in Norway. It includes branches of foreign banks. Today there are some significant differences in requirements. My objective is to facilitate good competition, sound banks and a diverse offer page in the financial market framework. The Government does not propose that Norwegian banks comply with appropriate requirements until the facilitations in EU rules have entered into force. With the consultation, we have done the necessary basic work to ensure that adapted requirements can enter into force when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e800	The centre party would rather see that there was greater and more political discussion about these changes. That's not all that is similar in Norway and the rest of Europe. The consequences for all of us in Norway who use banking services are different, and a variety of local strong banks have their own value. The Government's promises of «about the day's level» are not good enough for the Central Party. The same is true of the opportunities for SMEs to raise capital. The definition of SMEs in the EU is up to 400-500 million. kr, which is in fact the majority of the Norwegian enterprises. The consultation period for the proposed changes was, as the Council of State was in progress, 30 September, and I expect the Council of State to have gone through the recordings. I am pleased that there will be results of these within a short time. I'm simply wondering what input the council has noticed, whether she has adjusted the proposal somewhat, and what concrete ‘in a short time’ means.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e809	The Central Party would like to have more political discussion on this, as they say, but it is the Storting that has delegated this authority to the Ministry of Finance, and we are following it up. That being said, we have not only had this ordinary hearing. We have also met with all the banks that have wanted to meet us specifically in this matter, and it bears witness that we are taking this most seriously. I agree that Norway is not necessarily equal to the rest of Europe. Rather, on the contrary, we have seen, especially in the wake of the financial crisis, how positive it has been for Norwegian banks that they are considerably more solid than very many other banks it is natural to compare with. This means that Norwegian banks stand well in competition, they are solid and thus contribute to the security and trust of banking customers. There is currently no evidence that there are any capital drier in terms of the SME market. The banks have quite good lending growth to that market. But this is a matter I agree with the representative and follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e816	I feel that we have a slightly different view of how this will turn out, but I am pleased that the Council of State has taken the time to meet stakeholders. The precautionary principle and the achievements we have in Norway today should weigh at least as heavily as harmonising legislation internationally. As the Council of State itself says, financial stability is what we want to ensure. The capital situation is good today, but the proposed changes will have consequences for the smaller banks' ability to grow. The benefits of increasing the SME portfolio may be squandered by changes in the review of the Financial Supervisory Authority – Pillar 2 requirements and increased systemic risk buffers, increased capital requirements with reduced lending capacity, increased lending rates and the need to emit more equity are feared. Why will the Council not take these recordings seriously and ensure that standard method banks survive, and that the majority of bankers in the district still have banks to go to?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e825	That's a crazy claim. I just answered that. I'm taking these recordings very seriously, and that's why we've taken good time to talk to all the banks that have had views to promote for the Ministry of Finance in this. Here are several relationships to unite. One is that we have many small savings banks around the country that it is important to take care of. At the same time, we need to look at the competitiveness between them, foreign branches and the big Norwegian banks. All of these considerations we're trying to take care of in a good way, but I agree that it's important to safeguard our advantage. One of the advantages is that our banks are solid, that in Norway we have implemented many of the capital requirements much faster than we have seen in many European countries, and that have given our banks a strength in which they stand very well. It is a strength I believe we should take care of, while at the same time facilitating good access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises across the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e839	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e847	This question, from Mani Hussaini to the Minister of Health, will be raised by Tuva Moflag.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e852	«In the Government's Prop. 55 L appears to be a loss of the patient’s right to individual assessment of the need for health care, by the fact that the necessary health care concerns only the services to be provided by the specialist healthcare service. [[2018–2019]] In addition, ESA claims that the Norwegian legislation does not ensure an individual assessment of the effectiveness of treatment in Norway as in other EEA countries. Can the Council of States explain how the proposition has been assessed against EEA law and human rights, in particular the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, Article 12?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e859	It's not right that Prop. 55 L for 2018–2019 contains legislative proposals which imply that patients lose the right to individual assessment. On the other hand, the proposition states that decisions taken in the system for new methods cannot override the patient’s right to the necessary specialist healthcare under the Patient and User Rights Act. Decision-making forums must assume that patients have a right to the necessary specialist healthcare service which, in the ultimate sense, may have the courts confirm this. In other words, decision-making forums may not take decisions that result in the patient’s failure to fulfil his or her rights. Decisions in the decision-making forums must be within this discretionary room provided to specialist health services by current legislation. As regards the ESA reasoned opinion of 20 September 2017, I will refer to Prop. 80 L for 2018-2019. I do not agree with the ESA opinion, but I agree that today's legislation can be clarified and made more transparent and accessible to users. Clear and transparent legislation is important for the healthcare of the patient. The Ministry has therefore proposed changes to the legal provisions on the patient’s right to health care abroad. Among other things, a new provision of the Patient and User Rights Act shall provide a better overview of the different schemes that may provide a basis for the cost recovery of healthcare in other EEA countries and abroad. The Ministry also proposes clarifying that the right – as currently demonstrated by the Patient and User Rights Act § 2-1b, fifth paragraph – also applies to healthcare abroad, which is ‘documented more effectively’ than the health care provided by the public in Norway. Today, the wording of the law is linked to the existence of an ‘adequate offer’ in Norway. The legislative proposals contained in both proposals are, in my opinion, in line with the human rights and the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Article 12, which applies to the right of everyone to the highest achievable health standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e872	Prop. 55 L tries to define the right to the necessary health care only for the services that the specialist health service is responsible for providing and financing. These are concerns that we have met with different actors. It is the decision-making forum that is currently responsible for determining the methods and all its assessments at group level. Decision-making forums do not decide what healthcare is for the individual patient. For most people, standard treatment will be sound, but in the strictest sense, the legislative proposal means that patients who because of individual circumstances are radically different from the patient group and do not have the effect of standard treatment will not be entitled to the health care that is expected to be effective and that can save their lives. These patients, as the only patients, will be discriminated against by the fact that they no longer have the right to sound health care. What does the Council of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e885	I think, fortunately, this is a wrong representation of what is the reality of the proposition. That's what I said. Firstly, as the representative here describes, it will be patients who will also be able to very much benefit from the existing exemption system for new methods. Then it's important to stress that the proposition that the Storting has for treatment now does not legislate today's system for new methods. Many of the objections raised in the hearing were views and observations on the current system of new methods. It is the principle that the four health regions should have a joint decision-making system regulated by the law. We have chosen not to regulate in detail today's system, just to open up in order to make adjustments, and also to regulate it partially in regulations, because this might require changes along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e890	The legislative proposal referred to has been out for consultation, and eleven of the twelve hearing bodies that were at the hearing in Stortinget were negative to the law enforcement. All patient organisations were negative, the Medical Association was negative and the industry representatives both from the pharmaceutical and device sides were negative. Only the regional health enterprises, which own the system, were positive. After six years, the system has not yet been evaluated. Does the Council of State feel comfortable legislating a system that meets so much resistance among all actors in the field, without the system being evaluated? I hear that it is the principle that is to be legislated, but nevertheless, should not an evaluation be carried out before the step is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e895	We have also had legislative proposals on the part of the Ministry, and a majority of the hearing bodies support exactly what we are inviting the Stortinge to decide here, namely the principle of a common system for the four health regions that make these kinds of decisions. It's got broad support. What was encountered in the consultation of the draft law and also in the hearing of the committee, and on which there were a number of points of view, is today's system and individual elements in today's system, but none of it is regulated in this proposition. On the contrary, on the basis of those consultations – before being sent to Stortinget – we have taken the view that some of the conditions should be regulated, precisely in order to develop this system along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e903	‘Many children in child protection need help and treatment for children’s and young people’s psychiatry, BUP. The reduction of daily treatment in the BUP is used, among other things, to explain the increased use of sole measures in the field of child protection. This is not to take seriously the needs of vulnerable children for health care. Can the Council of State inform about the extent to which the BUP prints out children to child protection when the child is too sick to go home and when there are no alternative offers in the municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e910	I agree that there is a great need for health care for children in child protection, and in particular for mental health care. The Government has therefore implemented a number of measures to improve coordination and accessibility of assistance. I can mention measures such as the introduction of child protection officers in the BUP, the health officer in the field of child protection and cooperation agreements between child protection and the paediatric and youth psychiatry. Two child protection institutions are also being established according to the home hospital model for children with special needs, and we have increased the outpatient effort of child and youth psychiatry and into child protection. We have also established a package for children and young people with mental health problems, and the interaction process for health protection, which is to ensure good health care and good cooperation for children in child protection, is to be launched in the first half of 2020. The construction of services in municipalities is an important area of action, both for children in child protection and, of course, for other children in need of help. But we still have challenges, not least to reach children and young people who themselves do not want help from mental health protection. Early delivery is also a challenge. These are questions that I and the Minister for Children and Family now work together to find solutions. It is not right, as the representative suggests in his question, that the day-to-day treatment in children’s and young people’s psychiatry is reduced. According to the Central Statistical Office and the Health Directorate, there has been a slight increase in the number of daily places from 2014 until today. However, I think it is necessary to step up efforts to develop the interaction between the services and families concerned, so that problems can be detected in the past, and that children in need of assistance can be well followed over time. Several measures are now under development and testing, and I will come back to that. The representative Top asks if children are being printed out for child protection. I think it must be quite clear that child protection should provide care for children, not psychiatric treatment. According to the health regions, children are not printed out until they are sound. The accountability requirement applies to the paediatric psychiatry as to other health services. This means that children or young people who are still in need of daily accommodation cannot be printed out — unless they are voluntarily admitted and want to be discharged themselves. Depreciation should always be prepared, so that the municipality and care centres cooperate with the paediatric psychiatry – family, foster home or institution. Often, child and youth psychiatry will follow up the patient after 24 hours through outpatient or outpatient services. I can assure you that, in cooperation with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I will continue to work to ensure that the children receive the services they need, where appropriate, whether it is day-to-day or in the form of outpatient follow-up – and then, of course, whether they live with their families or whether they live in the provision of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e923	For the explanation from the government councils on day-to-day treatment in the BUP: I have submitted a written question about the claims made by the government. But at least the numbers I've found show that there's been a decrease of 19 pst. from 2013 to 2015, and then it has been an increased afterwards. But at least it's not about a reinforcement, and according to the needs outlined, among other things. In the field of child protection, I hope that the Council of State can see that child and youth psychiatry needs to be strengthened – and not only in outpatient clinics, but also in day-to-day treatment. So to the question of whether it is that children in child and youth psychiatry are referred to child protection: I don't understand that the council answered it clearly, because if that's the case, I think it's very serious if there's such a practice out there. Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e930	Of course, as regards the number of daily seats, the representative should be answered in writing. But the situation is that when I took over as a health minister after the red-green government, the number of daily places in childhood and youth psychiatry was at the lowest level since the escalation plan. So it's increased since that. I am not sure that the increase is large enough, so I have also given the Health Regions and the Health Directorate a mission in connection with the National Health and Hospital Plan, which is soon to be presented, to look at what is the future need in this area as well. With regard to references to child protection, I agree with the representative that if it is the case that child and youth psychiatrists print children out of daily treatment before it is professionally appropriate, to an offer in child protection that should be an alternative to daily treatment in children’s and young people’s psychiatry, it would be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e937	I have been contacted by several parents who told me that this is happening. It does not only apply to children in child-care, it applies to children in any case — seriously mentally ill children, who are printed out because child- and youth-psychiatry can no longer take care of them because there is no room and they need a different place. The municipality cannot be configured, so they are shown as child protection, even if they do not have a reason to be in the care of children. These parents ask me to compare what had happened to a treated cancer child in the same way. It actually wouldn't have been accepted. I mean, what comes out here is very serious, and I don't understand that the Council of State can deny that this is happening. So I'd like to ask, will the Council of State come to the bottom of this and do something for the practical situation, whether it is such that mentally ill children are referred to as single measures in the field of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e942	I have also met with parents – probably the same parents that the representative has met. I believe that, in the same way as the representative, they address an important and serious issue. But I think the representative may be tempted to simplify the issue a little too much in the question, because it should not be wrong for the child and youth psychiatrist to print children for child protection if that's what's right for the child – if the child no longer needs daily treatment in child and youth psychiatric care, but there's a relationship with the child or the home situation that makes it still not right for the child to live at home with his or her parents. Then, as it is for all other children, it will be the offer of child protection that is the alternative, then it is there that one should stay and have his care. But if child and youth psychiatry uses child protection as an alternative to daily living, where 24 hours will be right, I fully agree with the representative, and I intend to get to the bottom of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e952	This question, from the representative of Mr Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Food on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e957	‘Norway has had talks and negotiations with about 80 countries on a global regulatory framework for electronic commerce in the last six months. This could be a comprehensive agreement with many and diverse consequences. When will the Foreign Minister inform the Storting about the status of these negotiations, and will Norway publish its positions, as the EU, and therefore our neighbouring country, has done?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e964	The Government, as also stated by the Granavolden Platform, will work for multilateral trade agreements through the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, which build customs barriers and ensure equal opportunities for developing and developing countries. The digitisation of the economy changes international trade in both goods and services. It is therefore important to update WTO legislation so that it is better adapted to the digital economy. Negotiations are also an important part of the efforts to modernise the WTO and to maintain and further develop the multilateral trading system. Norway is therefore taking part in the WTO e-commerce negotiations. There are several important deadlines in the WTO in December this year. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will therefore provide the Storting with an update and information on trade policy issues, including e-commerce, in the European Committee in the New Year. The WTO negotiations on e-commerce show that the participating members need more time to clarify what to negotiate. There are still discussions on the experience of free trade agreements, possible ambitions, concepts and not least the relationship with existing WTO legislation. When the process enters a real negotiating phase, and we know more about the scope and scope of a possible new e-commerce legislation, a Norwegian mandate will be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e973	I thank you for your answer. This is a very important matter, and it is important for several reasons. Access to source code is essential, for example: to detect fraud with emission levels from the automotive industry, to regulate financial transactions and, of course, also to expose tax evasions on this side. Local and regional storage is important. These are some of the themes that I know have been up there, but I don't know if they're still in or out. This also has a major impact on the industry in Norway. We don't have the big companies, but when we know that letters have been sent to the WTO from companies where Google, Amazon, Apple, Facebook and others are members, it's clear that their favorites might be heavier than their Norway. What will the government do to protect Norwegian business and Norwegian interests in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e980	The fact that we are involved in this and in conversations about the digital economy and the digital development we are seeing is precisely to take care of both Norwegian interests and Norwegian business. Not least, we're trying to make sure that we put in place a one-legislation that's easy to deal with. We are participating in this because the digital economy is becoming increasingly important – including in developing countries, in fact. Norway is taking part in the e-commerce negotiations because we believe that WTO legislation needs to be updated in order to adapt to the digital economy of today and the future, as the representative Navarsete was also involved in his intervention. The process is also an important contribution to the modernisation and further development of the WTO in relation to framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e985	Thanks for the answer. What gives cause for concern is that one has already been discussing for many months – more than half a year – and for the Stortinge we have not been informed at all. Recently, the Elvesu State Council was criticized for hiding the content of the new climate plan to be delivered to the EU, while the EU has published its draft. The EU has already published its positions, and then it is very strange to the right government to say that Norway is going to publish – at least come to the Great Council with information every now and then. It seems that we are at a completely different level in the negotiations than the EU. It seemed strange. We are one small country, while the EU is many larger countries that have come to common positions and made them public. So what's the reason Norway is on the verge of determining our positions, and what time will they be public?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e990	Norway is not on its heels. As I pointed out in my first reply, in the initial phase these negotiations show that the mandate to which the representative refers cannot be drawn up. As I also said, it will be added that in the new year we will present this in the European Committee, which is, of course, the body set up by the Storting itself to discuss various issues. When the Norwegian mandate is clear, this mandate will be made public and made available on the government’s website.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e998	This question, from the representative of Mr Sigbjørn Gælsvik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Food on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1003	‘Norway, together with 77 other WTO countries, is involved in negotiations on a global legal framework for electronic commerce. The EU has put forward wide-ranging proposals which, with few exceptions, will facilitate the free movement of data and which will restrict or prohibit important national measures relating to the transparency, privacy, security, industrial development and taxation of multinational technology companies. What is Norway’s position in the negotiations, and what consequences will the agreement have for Norwegian sovereignty?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1010	First of all, I would like to refer to my response to the representative of Navarsete in this matter relating to much of the same issue. In addition to this, I want to add that the process is currently in an initial phase, i.e. that you are not at the level that you can clarify everything that I also referred to the representative of Navarsete. Several WTO members have now shared suggestions on how new rules on e-commerce might look. In particular, these texts come from their free trade practices, such as: Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, CPTPP, United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, and the EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement. So we're discussing the starting positions and we're not yet in real substance discussions. These will only start after the scope and scope of possible new e-commerce legislation has been clarified. It has also emerged that there are major differences between the major players in the level of ambition, both in general and on specific themes, such as: data flow and not least privacy protection. From a Norwegian point of view, the purpose of the e-commerce negotiations is to update the WTO Agreement to ensure multilateral trade rules, transparency and predictability in the future. This may, for example: be covered by new provisions on digital trade facilitation, consumer rights, Internet access and public data, data flows and others. Norway is also in favour of updating the WTO reference paper on telecoms. We will have important interests to protect in these negotiations. This concerns in particular the strong protection of personal data, which, together with data flows, could become one of the most central negotiating themes. For Norway, the interests of the least developed countries will also be taken into account in the negotiations. As far as the Norwegian mandate is concerned, as I also said to Mr Navarsete, when it is completed and you go into the real negotiating phase, you will ensure that the mandate will be public and made available on the government's websites.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1019	I thank you for your answer. I have to say I am further concerned to have heard the Council's response so far in the matter. This is about ongoing negotiation processes, where other countries give their positions, and where there are still no clear Norwegian positions in the Chamber today. One says that one should continue working on it, and then one should publish and have processes once next year. These are crucial issues. One says that one should take care of the interests of developing countries. The majority of WTO Member States have so far not wanted to participate in these negotiations, including: The Africa Group, Brazil and major developing countries, precisely because one is concerned about the process. Had it not just been important at the beginning to publish what are Norwegian positions, and received a broad debate on it in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1026	As I pointed out in my reply to Mr Navarsete's representative and in my first reply to Mr Gülsvik's representative, there has not yet been any position on the mandate itself. With regard to the positioning and the matter itself, I have also said that in the new year the Minister for Foreign Affairs will make a statement on this matter to the European Committee, which is the body that the Storting itself has elected as a consultative body in these matters. It is up to the representative to provide the Stortinget, at any time, in any context, as the representative now does, opinions related to speed and other things. But the government takes this very seriously. That is why we say that once we have reached the point where we believe we can get a mandate in place, we will publish it on the government's website, precisely because the debate should be public.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1031	The Norwegian Government is taking part, on behalf of Norway, in international negotiations in this area. Other countries and groupings have publicly announced their positions, what one goes into those negotiations with. I think it is also the case from the Norwegian side that one of the conversations that are going on so far is expressing their positions. It is then important for the public in Norway to know so that they can have a debate on it in Norway before participating in the negotiations. These are important issues relating to the protection of privacy. There are completely different assessments internationally. It is only a little over half of the world's countries that have data protection laws. Major countries such as the United States and China assess privacy in a different way from Norway, including the United States and China. with regard to the storage of IP addresses. In addition, there is an important issue for Norwegian business. For example, access to source codes has been important for industrial development, such as: The EU calls for a ban on the proposal on the table. Why does one not, in the Norwegian interest, immediately ensure that a broad package is presented on what is a Norwegian mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1038	I think it is important to have such a mandate, that we first see in which direction this carries, and that we spend that time. It's going to take time to get in place, precisely because, as the representative Geelsvik points out, there are many different positions in these negotiations. I have to repeat my answer once again: the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come to the European Committee in the new year and make sure that this discussion is put in place and make a statement there. In addition, I have said that when the mandate is clear – and you can get the discussion that the representative Gülsvik is after, and that I fully agree – you will publish it on the government’s website. More public than that, it's probably hard to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1054	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1062	‘In the presentation debate on 5 November 2019, I addressed political signals to Nav, as government restrictions on the possibility of combining the AAP and foreign residence. Nav has now confirmed my suspicion. The Director of Performance of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare states that they interpreted the legislative changes as a clarification and confirmation of their interpretation and practice. Therefore, a new chance: Could the Council of State rule out that political signals did not alert Nav to the ministry when the Social Security Court began to review Nav, so that the alarm did not go before?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1069	Clearance of work was introduced with effect from 1 March 2010, based on the Ot.prp proposal. No 4 for 2008-2009. This bill followed the general rule under the law on popular protection that the recipient should stay in Norway. However, two exceptions were granted to this requirement. Clearance of work may be provided to recipients who receive medical treatment or take part in a job-oriented activity abroad in line with the activity plan. Clearance of work may also be provided for a limited period of time during residence abroad if it is shown that the stay is compatible with the performance of the established activity and does not hinder the follow-up and control of the establishment. The Law on Social Security applies initially to all those travelling abroad, even outside the EU/EEA. In Ot.prp. No 4 for 2008-2009, it was therefore underlined that if there were contradictions between the Law on Civil Protection and the EEA Regulation, the EEA rules would take precedence. From 2018, a number of changes in redundancy payments were introduced, with the aim of narrower access to the scheme, tighter social security schemes and reinforced labour incentives. In addition, some proposals were made which were primarily justified on the basis of clearer and more comprehensible legislation, but in which no substantive changes were proposed. Among other things, proposed that the previous wording of the law on residence abroad for a limited period was replaced by a clarification that this applied for a period of up to four weeks. This was a legislative change, and there was no intention to make material changes compared to what was proposed in that proposition. I can therefore not see that there were new political signals sent to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare about the understanding of the EEA Regulation through the 2018 amendments. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important to me that we get an open and thorough review of the matter. I cannot rule out that there will be more facts and new questions and more information on the table, including: as a result of the review. The current selection will also examine the ministry's work on dealing with the matter, and what lessons we can learn from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1084	Nav says at least that there were signals sent. State Council Hauglie is politically responsible for Nav, and a crucial political question is about the government despite the fact that it became aware of the illegal, yet did not take hold. Today, we know that the government actively intervened in a case in the European Court of Justice where the judgment was given on 1 February 2017. As a party to the case, Norway was sent the judgment — including Hauglies' own department. So Hauglie says the verdict has nothing to do with the Nav scandal because the verdict is about moving, not staying temporarily. But Nav himself uses this judgment when, in their legal assessment of October 27, 2019, they conclude that the practice has been illegal. My question is: Why was the judgment and Nav's assessment of the verdict not part of the Annikan Hauglies statement on the Nav scandal of the Stortinget on 5 November 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1091	As I have explained earlier, the department became familiar with illegal practices in letter of December 2018, and then in August/September this year. In the case of the judgment mentioned, Norway intervened because it was about who would pay for a benefit when a person moves. That one can move, Norway was in agreement with, and had as a prerequisite in the law. This was about who will pay for a benefit when a person moves from one country to another — out of a social security scheme to another. The Commission and the United Kingdom and Norway agreed, the Court disagreed. But it was not about temporary benefits or temporary stays, it was about who would pay for permanent relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1096	It is alarming, because the judgment states that this is about ‘dwelling and presence’. There was no trace of the judgment in the Anniken Hauglies grossingsbericht on exports of social security services, which was handed over to Stortinget four months after the judgment of the Luxembourg Court of Justice. There was no trace of the judgment when the Code of Labour Clearance was amended on 1 January 2018; then Nav’s erroneous practice was even legalised. Nor was there any trace of the verdict of the Council of State Anniken Hauglie's statement to the Stortinget on 5 November, when she was to provide all relevant information to the Stortinget. Now that we know that the verdict is about residence and presence, and that the government actively intervened in the trial and was sent the verdict, I repeat the question: Why was the judgment not mentioned in Hauglies' statement to the Stortinget on 5 November 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1103	This is because we believe that the judgment is not relevant to the issue we are now facing. Norway and Nav have practiced the legislation correctly in relation to permanent relocation. This is not what is at the heart of the dispute; it is how to treat those who live in Norway but who live temporarily in other countries. That's where practice has been wrong. Norway intervened in the case, not because it was a question of whether you could bring benefits when you move, but who would pay for the benefit when you move out of a social security scheme and into another. It was our opinion that that judgment was therefore not relevant. Then, in several communications and propositions to the Storting, we have argued that in the event of a conflict, it is the EU regulation that prevails. That's what the government has laid down all the way, and there are also several messages and propositions that have been sent to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1119	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1128	This question, from the representative of Ruth Grung to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Food as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1133	‘According to the Government’s Green Shipping Action Plan, greenhouse gas emissions from domestic shipping, fishing and recreational craft account for approx. 22 pst. of the emissions in the transport sector. The Liegroup is now building the world's most environmentally friendly fishing vessel, where the NO X emissions will be 81 pst. lower and CO 2 24 pst. lower. But today's quota system provides little room for shipping companies to organize their fishing to take account of the climate impact. Why has the government not followed up on the climate in the quota notification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1146	Productive marine ecosystems and clean seas are fundamental prerequisites for future marine value creation. A rich sea of large and diverse biological production is a prerequisite for our future harvestable populations. In turn, herds provide the basis for a competitive fishing fleet. The main instruments of Norwegian climate policy are greenhouse gas taxes and tradable climate allowances, based on the polluter-pays principle. Thus, the changes in the quota system for fisheries are not primarily intended to contribute to the achievement of the government’s climate objectives. Nevertheless, instruments that enhance the profitability and predictability of fishing may improve the ability of shipowners to renew the fleet. In the construction of new vessels, it is much easier and cheaper to take measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Government has an expressed target of halving greenhouse gas emissions from domestic shipping and fishing by 2030. In order to achieve these objectives, the discharges from the fishing fleet must be reduced in the coming years. The Government therefore proposes to increase the cost of emissions from the fishing fleet as well, but then by introducing a CO 2 tax from 1 January 2020. The CO 2 tax is one of the most important instruments in today’s climate policy. It stimulates market-based and cost-effective measures to reduce CO 2 emissions through the polluter-pays principle. Increasing the price of emissions does not mean increasing the overall burden on the fishing fleet, and the government therefore proposes to establish a total compensation scheme for the fishing fleet, which is at the level of the CO 2 tax revenue. A budget of 255 million is proposed for 2020. kr. The compensation scheme shall establish good incentives to operate more climate-friendly, where the most energy-efficient vessels will come out better than the current reimbursement scheme. Of course, the undersigned has also met with the Liegroup, and one of the main prerequisites for achieving the objective that the representative Grung is looking for in his question is to collect more allowances on the vessel being built. Through the structural quota system, we have set a ceiling on how much can be collected on each vessel. For the government it is important to maintain a varied fleet structure across the country, where individuals can fish on the basis of the resource base there, and thus we believe that the structural ceiling laid down should be fixed in order to ensure settlement and not least to contribute to the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1173	For two years I've been in the nutrition committee and learned a lot about fishing. It is quite right, as it is mentioned, that we have a successful fisheries policy, including: contribute to diversity and increase revenue, manage to get employment across the coast and to be sustainable. Nevertheless, I have discovered that within today's system there is a limitation of ownership attached to the participant law. The audience may not harvest more than 6,5 pst. because there is a ring-note restriction. Why not facilitate increased flexibility within the 6.5 pst, so that instead of sending out three boats in the same field you can collect them on one boat and reduce fuel costs? That's the logic of this, and then you maintain the overall diversity of the fleet. The direct question is not linked to the CO 2 tax, but to how to organise harvesting in connection with the restrictions on ring notes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1185	Of course, for the Advancement Party and the Government, it is important that we have a varied fleet structure. We have also said that exactly what has to do with the structural system is firm. If you go over that roof, you get a completely different kind of discussion. I dare remind you that some of the things that happened when you got a split attached to the fishing boat and the organization were related to disagreements in what the fleet structure should look like. I believe it is important that we have a varied fleet where we do not have any large, heavy vessels that have an excessive share of the quotas. We're going to harvest the marine resources in many areas. Some have to go far by sea, some have to get closer to the coast, and some go all the way into our feathers, which we, for example, are going to be. watching sprat fishing in Trondheimsfjord these days. The Government also considers it important to maintain a competition related to this raw material. The basic principles of the Participant Act will, as I said, be established. That's what the government has said, and then I think it's right to keep the code that we already have in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1194	Then I just have to repeat that this does not affect the structural quotas as long as there are ownership restrictions of 6.5 pst. for ringing notes. They've had three vessels, now they've turned into two vessels. This allows them to have two shifts of orderly employment rather than one shift, and they increase employment. If they are given increased flexibility, the principle of varied fleets does not go beyond that they have a limitation of ownership, but emissions are reduced by fewer vessels leaving. It also strengthens the economy and sustainability of fisheries. Why not provide that flexibility when ownership restrictions are attached to, for example. ring notes – in most areas of marine fishing, ownership constraints – and exploit the building and combining of more sustainable vessels. The question is once again: why has climate change not been assessed in the context of the quota notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1201	In the notification of allowances, the Government has proposed the establishment of a scheme, inter alia: with allowance exchange for the lease-in and lease-out of allowances within the allowance year. This will provide the flexibility mentioned by the representative, also linked to economic operators. It will also simplify the system of allowances administratively. For each company, this could give greater room to organise their fishing activities to take account of the climate impact. The most important thing we do, and it shows the industry itself, is to provide good framework conditions, so that profitability is there. In connection with the renewal of the fishing fleet, we see that new solutions are coming. We see hybrid solutions, we see battery solutions, we see new vessels, we have the NO X fund that is involved and contributing, and we have the Enova fund that is also involved and contributes to a conversion. We're doing a bunch of things, and we're going to do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1214	‘This week, the media has written about conditions testifying to the gross exploitation of foreign workers in coastal fishing. According to Dagbladet, the A-Krimsenter in Nordland has revealed a continuous violation of the law. The findings, referred to as trafficking in human beings and serious crime at work in the fishing industry, are incompatible with the policy objectives of the fisheries policy. What will the Council of State do to clean up the unacceptable conditions revealed by the Northern A Crime Centre?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1221	Of course, the conditions identified by the a-krim centre in Northern Ireland are totally unacceptable. These are states that we don't want to see anywhere. Either the fishing industry or other land-based industries are subject to the same conditions. We cannot accept the fact that there are fishing industries in Norway operating in this way. Not only is this bad for the people affected, but it is also detrimental to the reputation of Norwegian seafood and Norwegian fish industry, both at home, in the markets and in consumers, who are increasingly concerned with social conditions and sustainability in the maritime food industry. It also leads to an unfair advantage for operators who do not operate under the law. This affects operators who operate properly and legally. I am therefore committed to creating a fair Norwegian fishing industry, both for those working in the industry and for businesses – an industry based on fair allocation of fishing resources, decent use of labour and a level playing field. Since the fishing industry is part of a globalized industry, we also need to think and act both nationally and internationally. A NOW on future fisheries control will soon be presented at national level. International efforts to assist developing countries against fishing crime will take place through the Blue Justice initiative, such as: will address trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of labour in the global fishing industry. The government has also recently granted 14 million. kr for this initiative, to be chaired by a Secretariat of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. I expect all fishing recipients and other operators in the fishing industry to act in a responsible and fair manner and to comply with the laws and regulations. When this does not happen, it is important that it is identified and followed up by the relevant control conditions and that cases are investigated and prosecuted. If we are to have a good and serious working life in Norway, the rules of the labour market must be followed and labour crime prevented and combated. This is legislation that is constitutionally owned by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The conditions identified by the a-crime centre in Northern Ireland are examples of the fact that work-life crime remains a major problem and that the actors adapt and try to circumvent the rules established. Despite this, the case also shows how powerful the public authorities are through the cooperation and co-location in the a-krim centres. Checks will be even more effective when the authorities cooperate across borders, as in this case. Such cooperation between agencies and across borders is central to the government’s strategy against crime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1238	What has come to light is very serious. It is very serious for our reputation as a fishing nation. It is about having a fishing industry in this country, there must be Norwegian wage and working conditions in these farms; therefore, this is totally unacceptable. Norwegian pay and working conditions have always been one of the most important issues for the Workers' Party. I do not think there is much evidence that the Minister for Fisheries has intended to do very much in the future. It is transferred to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. What's revealed is an hourly wage of 40 kroner, it's possible trafficking in human beings, it's threats, you don't get overtime pay, it's black work, it's illegal living conditions, it's sky-high rents – that's a relationship we don't want to be familiar with. Then it's interesting to know if the government has some idea of how extensive this problem is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1245	It has just been worked through both the a-krim centres, cooperation with industry, controls, etc. which shall reveal those conditions. As I said in my first post, this is totally unacceptable. That's not the way we're going to have it in Norway. That's why we have a law. The representative Myrseth himself referred to the law. If you break a law in Norway, you have to be punished. It's to be charged and prosecuted. That's exactly why we have laws and rules. We have the a-krim centers that are a very important actor, with which the government has worked a lot. It is in order to coordinate control at Norwegian fishing receptions that use, inter alia: Lithuanian labour force. There is cooperation between Norwegian and international authorities. The Labour Inspectorate has also shown that there are serious violations of the minimum wage regulations, as the representative also says. It is unacceptable, and it must be pursued. That is why in this country we have prosecution authorities and criminal authorities, and we, as authorities, have to exercise control and come up with measures to stop this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1256	If more processing is to be done in Norway, the industrial situation is priority number one. This is also an industry where many people work temporarily. At times, lay-offs are necessary due to e.g.: lack of raw material. The government, with the Minister for Fisheries at the head, wants, among other things, to now to change the rules of leave by halving the period of leave, as Seafood Norway says will lead to, among other things. more temporaryity. I think it's a completely wrong way to go. I wonder, what does the Minister for Fisheries think is his responsibility to deal with the situation we are now seeing in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1263	I have pointed out a good part of it, among other things. inter-departmental cooperation and ensuring that the industry itself takes greater responsibility for the enterprises. Among other things, it does. Seafood Norway – they have given an interview in this respect in relation to legislation. We have to make sure that the resources are there for control. We have to make sure to take seriously the NOU that is coming soon, related to this type of activity and control activities and resources. We have to make sure that the Labour Inspectorate follows up on what is their responsibility. We have to make sure that the a-krim centres also continue to do the amazing work they are actually doing, because it is precisely the measures that have been taken, with cross-border cooperation, that make us better at discovering. As you become better at revealing, you also increase the risk of being taken if the rules are broken. I think the most important effect here is that this shows that the authorities will see one in the cards, will take action, and that one will be charged and punished if one violates these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1275	‘Why is the Council of State now negative to give people greater security for enough food by starting the stockpiling of cereals, when the Christian People’s Party has previously been in charge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1280	It is an important social responsibility to ensure that the inhabitants of the country get enough food. Food security in Norway is ensured through national production, trade and maintenance of the production base of the farmers. The representative Sandtrøen claims in the question that the Council of State is now negative to give greater security to people and enough food by starting emergency storage of grain. I do not actually agree with that. I can assure the representative Sandtrøen that the government attaches great importance to reducing risks and ensuring access to food grain in Norway. I would like to refer to measures taken in this area in the last agricultural policy, including: the scheme of grants for the stockpiling of cereal seed was significantly strengthened in the year’s settlement. When assessing the stockpiling of cereals, it is necessary to consider storage against cost. That doesn't make it 30 million. kr, as proposed by the Labour Party in its 2020 alternative budget. Establishing standby storage for three months of consumption of food grain will involve an investment cost of an estimated 430 million. kr for the purchase of cereals and not least the construction of silo capacity, and it will cost at a cost of less than 50 million. kr in annual operating costs. Professional reports prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in recent years say that they have not found that there are any high-risk events in food supply. On this basis, the government has concluded that a centralised food grain emergency stock will not be a targeted and cost-effective measure to strengthen Norwegian food security. I would point out that the government also sees the food supply in a larger perspective. The assistance budget for 2020 provides for a significant increase in the allocation of agricultural climate change adaptation and improved nutrition, where funds mainly go to countries that are particularly vulnerable to a shortage of cereals and other foodstuffs. It also affects access on the international market. That's why I don't want to go in for a stand-by but I want to follow this closely and see if things change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1295	The Swedish Defence Research Institute’s report ‘Food safety in a climate perspective’ points out precisely that access to key food can be challenged in the coming years, because the climate makes access to food more unpredictable. The same point is made by the government’s own climate risk committee in its own report, pointing out that a country such as Norway could also be affected by the changes that are now taking place internationally, including the United Kingdom. due to more unpredictable weather conditions in production. That's what we in the Workers' Party believe because we have to think about the supply of food, and especially grain, which is one of the most crucial foods, as part of our common insurance. Then I wonder, has the attitude to these questions changed in the government after the Christian People's Party came in?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1302	I'll start at the end that I say yes, I totally agree that access to food is a challenge to the climate challenges we have. The availability of food is important for our country, but we are not allowed to just think about our country. We also have a responsibility to think about other countries. That means that in the situation we are now, with the reports we have, we have chosen to give priority to those who need it the most, and it is those who do not have access to buying grain or food from other countries. Helping with climate action that has been important to the government, precisely in a global perspective. Then we will follow this closely with regard to our own supply of food, and we have also done so by securing ourselves to each farm and saying that we support the stockpiling of seeds on each farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1309	The last is very good, and that's exactly what we now need even more of: several national security points that make sure that we all have the insurance that we can become dependent on in the next few years. Then I want to draw out a historical picture taken here nearby. Towards the end of World War I, we were totally dependent on quickly bringing up production in Norway, so they started producing potatoes in the Castle Park, even though we ourselves were not in a direct war situation in Norway. There's one example of how important it can be to have access to food when it's really going to be a crisis. So then I want to end with one last question about our own productive capacity. I wonder: can the Council guarantee that the next agricultural settlement will lead to an increase in the grain area in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1316	Now, as the State Council, I have great respect for the negotiating institute – I take this with the agricultural organisations, not in the main hall. I also hope that the Labour Party will continue to have that respect for the negotiating institute, because it is an important foundation for Norwegian agriculture. In the agricultural situation that was, I've shown that grain production was an important priority, and we've shown, even in the agricultural situation, that channelling becomes important to us, and I intend to continue that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1324	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Immigration the following questions: ‘The amount collected by criminal money in Norway per year. years, lying very low. Last year it was approx. 100 million dollars. We have repeatedly called for and made proposals in Stortinget on the follow-up to the civil custody investigation that was at the hearing in February 2017. Responses from various Ministers of Justice have been pending. It was therefore positive that, on 29 September, the Minister of Justice of the NRK Dagsrevyen and at Nok.no, he praised the model of civil detention in Ireland and gave the impression that we would follow suit in Norway. However, nothing has been notified about this in the State budget or in other ways. Will the government propose the introduction of civil custody, and when will this happen in the event?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1333	Retirement is an important tool to combat crime, and in particular organised crime and juvenile delinquency – economic gain is a key driver of both economic and organised crime. There may also be a desire for access to expensive status symbols used to signal power and performance in some environments. With effective withdrawal, we thus reduce the prospects for economic gain and therefore the motivation to commit criminal acts. In addition to the prevention of the recruitment of criminals, it is also reasonable to withdraw the proceeds of criminal offences. Crime shall not pay off. In Norway, withdrawal is currently the general rule in criminal proceedings. The issue of withdrawal is treated as part of the criminal proceedings themselves. An investigation into civil custody, as the representative of Bohemia mentioned, was sent to the Ministry of Justice at the hearing, and the investigation provides a good overview of the issues on which to assess the scope of action in order to develop such a system in Norway. As also mentioned in the question from the representative of Bohemia, I was in Ireland to visit the Criminal Assets Bureau in Dublin. Since 1996, they have had a system of civil law confiscation. The experience of that system has been good there. The experience we have gained in Ireland is being drawn into the further work. So I want to say that it's quite a lot of work. It must be investigated and assessed in more detail. It takes some time to develop a well-functioning civil law enforcement legislation adapted to the Norwegian legal tradition. The Ministry has it for work. Although it is a little early to be able to confirm the exact time, I aim for a case during 2020. A system of civil law withdrawal must also be seen in the context of the rules of criminal law repealing it. In this respect, I have set up the Criminal Felony Council, which has been entrusted with the task of assessing the rules of criminal law and making proposals to ensure the most effective withdrawal of proceeds from criminal offences. The Council is due to give its assent on 15 June 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1348	I thank you for the answer, which I see as positive, in that way that the Council of State suggests that something should happen. The civil law withdrawal investigation was open for consultation in 2016. Many qualified responses were received until February 2017. Of course, the Council of State may refer to its predecessors in this respect, but the problem is what has happened since February 2017, when the consultation round was completed, and until now. If you thought you had to start a job, why didn't you do it? This is a tool that has been wanted by the police for a long time, because there are too many people who may have large amounts in their pockets without the police being able to do anything before you reach a criminal case much later. So I hope the Council of State will speed it up. I would also like to add: in terms of the criminal law trail, it is important to look at the parental rules. When you are in prison, the limitation period should not start until you release, so that you can't waste money that's there when you get out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1355	Some of the reasons why it takes some time for civil law to be withdrawn are that this will in reality mean a reduction in the burden of proof in order to be able to take a withdrawal. It is also problematic in terms of legal certainty. So we have to find a good and sustainable legal method that allows us to have an effective withdrawal before the criminal case is settled, but so that at the same time it doesn't go at the expense of legal certainty. Just that balance sheet can be quite demanding to find. But it's important that we take the time to do that, so that we don't initiate the withdrawals like that. is not allowed well enough in Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1360	I also thank you for the additional reply. There is a problem for which I would like to ask the Council of State to comment and work further, and that is when money is to be collected. In a report in the VG, we saw an example of a person who would pay a large amount in connection with a conviction in a bankruptcy case. The money was taken out of the country just before the requirements came, and then you had zero kroner to pay the withdrawal claim in Norway. How does the Council of State view the possibility of using legal claims against foreign courts, i.e. Norwegian legal claims, in this case in Pakistani courts, or other means of obtaining them? If you have a background in other countries, you can often carry the values out before the withdrawal requirements come, and thus the Norwegian authorities have problems realising them, if you do not find a form of work that you choose to use instead of giving it a risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1367	In the work we now put up with regarding withdrawal, we probably do not see that we are going to send an invoice to those we are going to collect funds from. Here it's going to be that we've identified the funds first, and then you go to a court to freeze them, so it won't be possible to take them out of the country until the police are able to use the civilian withdrawal trail in order to take the values. That's exactly what's a little bit of the point of civil law withdrawal, that it's going to go faster, and that you have to be able to do it before, for example. has passed a judgment in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1372	The debate on substance is then closed. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-20.ana.ud531e1386	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
