ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e28	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e33	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Karin Andersen, Katrine Boel Gregussen, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to make proposals to declare the climate crisis a national emergency. And on behalf of the representatives of Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I will propose a decentralised higher education for quality, well-being and sustainable communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e40	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e56	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e65	I would first like to congratulate the Chamber on the day of release and the day for veterans. It's worth doing it in this room too. My question is about the everyday life of all those who travel by train in this country. The other day, a driver posted a message on Facebook that he would have read if he had been a driver on a train to Moss. It read as follows: ‘Good evening [[...]] This post could have been from reality, and it actually shows a more serious case, namely a very unbridled system and a recipe for liability powdering. It's also a waste of money. It's spent 1.5 billion. EUR 280 million for this railway reform. kr on the name change to Vy, and the use of money on consultants and directors' salaries in the increasing number of companies is part of this structure. There was a marked increase in the appropriations for trains under the Stoltenberg government, and this government should be praised for continuing this effort. The tasks are great, however, there are many unresolved situations out there in Railway Norway – the intercity expansion that the government has exposed, electrification of the Trander Railway that is exposed, rail between Voss and Arna, to mention some examples, the Folloban, what happens to commuters on the Eastfold Railway, etc. Action is needed in the area of fragmentation, but the ability of implementation to improve the provision of travellers is lacking. My question is: is a total increase in funding for the railways, it is good for the climate, but can the Prime Minister prove that this form of organisation, this fragmentation, provides better train services for the country's commuters and travellers, and more for the money that the community grants?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e81	It is such that the Norwegian rail service is getting better. After many years of not investing enough on rail, there is a shift in railway investment, with large plans for the development of a good railway in our country. It began under the former government, and it still has under this government. It is also such that this government has made very clear and clear priorities to make the offer today better for the travellers. That means that there are more trains running, we've got more and more modern train sets because we've bought it, there are more and more people choosing to travel by train, and the number of departures has increased on several routes. The results are clear with regard to railway investment. Then we also carry out a major rail reform that will provide more rail for the money and better train provision for the travellers. The competition for driving passenger trains on Sørlanden, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen was decided in the autumn of 2018 with great savings as a result. In addition, we also build at full speed out of intercity. But we don't build it as quickly as we ever wanted, for example. because there were very little planning materials, so you were very in the back when it came to planning new routes. In addition, there are ground conditions in some places that make the cost picture of some sections much larger. Then it requires taking this into account in the work further. The railway is a bet area, we get several departures, there are several who travel by train – it's actually a good success story.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e90	The tasks are many and the challenges are many in Norway, but this fragmentation causes people to lose confidence in how the railways in Norway are organised. They experience it when they travel. Many want to drive trains, even when they are going far. Many want to sleep on the train and come forward the next morning to the place they have traveled to. But now you find that the sleeping cars on the night eyes are often sold out, and many have to fly instead. It's a climate challenge. This can be solved by purchasing several sleeping cars for the trains, but we have recently been illustrated by the responsibility powdering, where the Vy-Manager says they cannot buy trains – it is not their responsibility. He points to another in this unbridled structure and is corrected on Twitter by the Minister of Transport, who says that yes, they can. It's an expression that it's pretty chaotic. Can the Prime Minister now clarify – it may be useful to know for those who are thinking about a trip – who is responsible for buying more sleeping cars, so we can get such vehicles in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e97	It's simple: in the area of rail services, it's the state that buys, that ensures and delivers to them. If a company provides more services than what we buy, it's the ones who can buy that material. So that's how Vy can buy the night and if they find it available and want an extra offer in addition to the basic service that the government buys and that we provide as a structure at the bottom. Today we use approx. 150 million. NOK to buy night and night services to have a night and offer. It's not a profitable investment; the purchases and services we subsidize. If we are to have more services, we must allocate more money for this in the state budgets – if the state is to be responsible for it. But it is clear that anyone who runs a train on a route and has received a tender on it can increase the offer, just as that Onkøe is running something on a tender from the state and some extra departures completely profitable for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e106	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e111	So it's still the state that grants the money, and that's good. We are willing to give a lot of money and give more money. However, it says a little about the powdering of responsibilities – perhaps early in the phase – that the head of the NSB, now called the Vy Manager, is not aware of his responsibilities, the powers he has, the possibilities he has, and that there is an outbreak of discussion with the Minister of Transport. Does the Prime Minister see this flora of ASs, many directors and extended bureaucracy in the Norwegian railway sector as inconspicuous? The fact that the state grants the money may be good enough, but who really steers the direction of this, there is doubt about it, and when what we associate with a leading person in this sector, otherwise a very enlightened person, is not aware that he has responsibility and the ability to buy sleeping cars, isn't that an expression that this sector is powdered in responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e118	We're in a review of a new structure. It always takes some time for the structure to sit down and people to see exactly what it is. But I think the comparison with e.g. Onions will be quite simple. It's not that hard to see that a company like Vy, if they're responsible for one route, will have to deliver a basic offer that they've been offered. In addition, they will be able to make an extra offer if they find it economically viable. Then the material they supply in connection with it is, if necessary, something they themselves can purchase. That's also the case in a lot of other areas. We're going to provide a basic good structure for rail and departures, and then there's always a discussion about whether it's night and night that's most important, or whether there's enough commuting to bring down climate emissions on day-to-day travel. Is it most important to have the most material where people travel the most, or more night and night for people like this. going out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e125	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e130	It was Gro Lillebø, who is obviously an avid railway passenger, who approached Vy and asked if it was possible to get more sleeping cars. The answer that came from the Vy has gone like a farsot, and as Gahr Støre pointed out, it was certainly not to be very wise of – what is the responsibility of the railway directorate, what is the responsibility of the Bane NOR, and what is the responsibility of the Norwegian train. The conclusion was that the Railway Directorate must order trains so that Norwegian Trains can acquire trains. But that's what the Minister of Transport says, and now the Prime Minister says it's not right – we can buy as many sleeping cars as they need. While the discussion is in progress, Gro Lillebø and the others are standing without space on the night watch. My question to the Prime Minister is: Bergensbanen and Dovrebanen are not open to tender. Is it so to understand that the NSB can now buy as many sleeping cars as they want to operate the Bergensbanen and Dovrebanen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e136	Come on, NSB no longer exists. But to be absolutely honest, I don't think the Workers' Party has such a hard time because they don't understand this. What is the basic offer, what is being tendered, is what will also be the material at the bottom. And then, well, if they think it's profitable on this distance to have an extra offer in addition to what we buy services for, that's what we get for the 150 million. Dr with whom we subsidise night services in Norway, at the top of it to make an investment in it. But that's the way we buy more trains and train sets. This government has done a lot of that. And now we're in the process of evaluating the new train sets to be purchased. There has also been a job to see if it is possible to rent more nights. It's just so bad out there that you have to go into a big purchase of new ones if we're going to increase the activity. But it will also be linked to whether we want to prioritise night and into the future train offer rather than for example. multiple commuter departures in the Great Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e145	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e150	Norway has its own guerrilla, the bulwark guerrilla. They're nicely armed, with silver, with stockings and shoes. They have the heart in the right place, and they fight for what they have loved, with power, with honesty, and with love for their home places. It started in Kristiansund last month, and then it's spread all over the country. It started with one strong woman, and now there are thousands of women and men who say that enough is enough, that's enough centralization now, we want good health services, we want good food departments near where we live. When the prime minister was in Lake Sandnesseen, she met people who stood up for their hospital, who stood up for their college, who stood up for Helgeland and said that if this is laid down, the district will be destroyed. The message was very clear. Prime Minister, President, we have seen the same mobilisation many times now. We saw it in the context of the near-police reform. People got up, they didn't want that centralization. We saw it in the robberies debate, where over 10,000 people were in front of the Storting and said from: Listen to those who are affected by the policy. We saw it last week in Namsos, where over 6,000 people said: La Nord University pass, we need nurse training because the centralization of it next time will lead to the centralization of the hospital. People don't want centralization. Yesterday Prime Minister Erna Solberg received an open letter from Catrine Hole. She wrote: ‘We have already been deprived of so much.’ And on the other hand, ‘Perhaps not everyone will, or need, to live in a big city?’ I want to use the words of Catrine Hole to ask questions to the Prime Minister. She wrote: ‘Cutting the blood supply to the district is not believing in Norway. So we're asking you today, how can you allow this to happen?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e172	I fully agree that the bouquet is a beautiful garment. I see that on 8 May the representative has also dressed up. It can be in solidarity with those who demonstrate. The challenge with some of these issues is that they are not really about what the representative addresses, centralisation, but about location between different places. In Helgeland, the discussion on the provision of health concerns the location of Helgeland. We have no position in this from the government. There is a process that started under the red-green government in 2013, when the first decisions were taken to look at the structure to ensure a forward-looking and good structure in Helgeland, where there are several alternatives up, and where there is still no rule that there can be more than one. Although the Helgelands Hospital wanted only one hospital and three district medical centers first, the board of Health Nord has been clear that they will continue to have the option of two hospitals in the further work. This case has also now been widely consulted. There shall also be a discussion and an investigation related to the societal impact of the different localisation options, which are interesting and important to include. There are then mainly questions about two different district locations in the debate on health services in Helgeland, Mo or Sandness Lake, or to maintain two hospitals. I'm open to both solutions. What's important is that we have a good professional offer, and that it's well placed, so that the distance is also included. Distance considerations are among the things that we have said in these cases also have to be an important part of the assessment. Then I hope that those who live in the lake, those who live in Lake Sandness, and those who live at Mo, will give their words and opinions into consideration in the future, so that we can make the best possible decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e183	How to organise the higher education and university sector is not a matter of governance; it is a matter of society; it is a political responsibility how it is organised. How to organise the country's hospital and its food supply is not a corporate matter, it is a social matter, a political matter. It's a hundred percent political responsibility how we organize the country's colleges and universities and the country's hospitals. And unfortunately, what we're looking at from the numbers is that the number of women who give birth outside of hospitals is doubled in 15 years. According to research.no, 500 births occur involuntarily outside a food establishment. It says that it happens in cars, in ambulances, in doctors ’ offices, and it says that births are also carried out in abandoned feeding rooms. According to Hilde Engjom, who has researched this widely, it is not the size of the maternity ward that is crucial, but the distance, and she concludes quite tough: no planned births outside the institution have three times the risk of the child dying than if it is in an institution. Can the Prime Minister accept such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e192	The size of the population has addressed the principles of birth organisation in Norway, which is a differentiated maternity care. There has been a broad majority behind a differentiated offer, which means that it is very important to select out hazard births at an early stage, make sure that they come to the most qualified areas. This means that some mothers have to travel early and be close to a specialised clinic because they have children who need special care afterwards. For example, in Helgeland it's not a children's clinic, and it's one of the discussions, that if you get one hospital, you might get a children's clinic, which allows some to have better qualifications to work with those questions. But it is important to remember that under the red-green government, when the Senterpartiet was in government, food departments and feeding rooms were set up in Rjukan, Steinkjer, Orkdal, Nordfjordeid, Valdres and Lærdal. So it's like you're also going to drop in the time of the red-green government. Most of the numbers, which go back 15 years, also take with them the entire red-green time. We all remember the outbreaks of Liv Signe Navarsete related to the North Fjordeid question. The fact that the Center Party is now making this a matter for this government, when they were put in government when most of the places were closed, I think it's a little strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e199	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e204	After all, we have to look at the research and the facts we have, and the research is clear that distance is crucial to whether a birth is going well, or whether it is going bad. Now there are discussions about more places to put down the maternity wards. We have a discussion in Kristiansund – there is a discussion about shutting down the maternity ward – and we have it in Helgeland. Then the fact shows that if there is a longer distance, there are more complications and, unfortunately, there is also a greater risk that the child may die. Then there's no point in discussing what happened eight to ten years ago. The discussion must be how we can strengthen food supply now, so that the risk goes down and not up. Then is my question to Prime Minister Solberg: Can Prime Minister Erna Solberg accept that there are more and more people born outside the institution and that development is going in the wrong direction? Is the correct answer then to lay down even more maternity wards, or should we create more services and not weaken them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e211	For this government, it has been a priority task to ensure better maternity care and better help to give birth by refurbishment in the municipalities. One of the things we did was to reintroduce the requirement to have midwife competence in the municipalities, which the red-green government removed. As a result, there is a significant increase in the number of nurseries in Norwegian municipalities. Norwegian maternity care has improved in recent years, not worse. There are fewer complications, there are better follow-up services early, and there are far more midwives per child now than it has been in the past, because there has been a clear and clear bet: from 2013 to 2017, there has been an increase from 47,3 to 72.1 midwifery per 1000 born in Norway, an enormous effort, just to ensure that selection takes place early, that birth hazards are discovered, and that mothers receive a good and safe offer that enables them to feed safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e218	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e223	The bead guerrilla's great. It is able to draw attention to an important topic, namely emergency and food supply. There is a need, because only this week the government and the government have denied all the opportunities to discuss on TV or radio matters about food care. That is why I am pleased that the Prime Minister is here today and can answer questions. I'm a little surprised if the prime minister doesn't see the total centralization that South-Helgeland is now at risk, both within education and within hospitals. But there are many ways to make emergency and food services vulnerable. If North University, for example, have their centralisation of nursing training in Namsos, Namso’s hospital will become highly vulnerable. Trine Skei Grande has said it quite precisely: ‘In Namsos, nursing is an important prerequisite for having a hospital. A university may not lay down a hospital.’;» Those were important words from the leader of the Left. Does the Prime Minister agree? And will the government intervene if Nord University proposes a closure and centralisation of nurse training in Namsos?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e236	I think it is neat when we have processes in the higher education and university sectors, that we make those assessments and discussions together with democracy – consultation rounds, etc. – without saying no in advance and stopping any activity. In fact, the government has done something special in this matter by writing letters to the board of directors to point out in particular two aspects of the first proposal to be included in the assessment. One relationship is that one should not pre-empt any structural changes in other agencies, for example: where hospitals are to be located when discussing their own structure. It is not the case that the education sector should advance and make changes at the same time as there is another development and discussion of location. This applies, for example: the situation on Helgeland. The other thing she's brought up is that we need a decentralised offer. [[President clubs]] For the government, decentralised education provision is an important part of the whole reform of competence for the future. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e243	The number is out. Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e248	The Bunads guerrilla is a symbol of the growing commitment to the health model and government’s centralisation of food supply and emergency functions. The Government, by Solberg and Höie, sit in Oslo and approves centralisation in conversations with its elected representatives. It wouldn't have been a gangster if the government in health services were popular, which could be replaced by options if they didn't do their job. The number of birth institutions in Norway is now lower than the recommendation from the World Health Organization. The number of non-institutionally born women is double in 15 years. There is evidence that longer travel and birth outside the institution significantly increase the health risk for mother and child. In Helgeland, there is no food supply and the distance has been assessed by the health service, although one has been advised on one hospital. One has assessed urbanity and housing prices, but not the distance to food supply. The question is how the Prime Minister can allow greater travel distances for births on North Moravia and the Helgeland coast, and then transfer responsibility for the development to the health agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e259	I think it must be a certain historical shift if you think that with the model of the Center Party – that the county councils should be responsible for the hospital structure – it would not have been bulwark guerrillas, demonstrations or anything else. Many food supplies were closed down — during major protests — during the period of the present model of the Central Party. For example, Aker was closed down in 2003 in that model – Oppdal, Ørland, Hallingdal, Andenes, Nordkapp. As you saw, there was no shortage of torch trains and discussions that time either. It was de facto the same thing. That is why there were many protests when the Stoltenberg government was set up and a number of food supplies were put down – much more food supply than under this government. What is the answer to this with distance: Yes, distance shall also be considered in terms of location. It's important, that's what the Storting said before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e266	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e271	The Bunadsgerilja messed over Lake Talg, from Smøla to Kristiansund, for five hours with a pregnant lady. She was doing well. It was a symbol act. As the Prime Minister said, ten years ago, a happy event concluded that we should have a decentralised and differentiated food supply in Norway. As a result of that message it is today that you live more than 90 minutes away from a place of birth, you are entitled to follow-up service. 20 pst. the municipalities of the country have accompanying services. However, several of these have now ceased to exist as a result of the over-financing of hospitals in 2018. The last example is Goal Self. On the Dagsrevyen we saw that especially in North Moravia, people today do not meet the requirements for accompanying services. There are pregnant women who don't get the service they're going to have. Ten years after Stortinget clearly said that we should have a decentralised and differentiated food supply, the government is unable to follow up this uniform service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e278	I fully agree with the representative that the government of Stoltenberg was unable to follow up completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e283	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e288	The government of Solberg, on the other hand, follows this up significantly – I understand that it was a delay. This government has been involved in maternity and maternity care at an early stage. So that means that we reintroduced the requirement that all municipalities have midwife competence. It's fundamental to the decentralised model. You have to have someone who follows you in a pregnancy, to see if there can be complications that make you have to be sent early to a hospital or to a specialised hospital, or if you assume that it could be a normal birth, that you can decide that you can be born in a feeding room. That's why we have reintroduced the requirement that the red-green government has removed. There is a large and significant increase in the number of midwives around the municipalities, because we have just made sure that we should have better follow-up. Then we follow up on the follow-up service. It has to be there. Therefore, on 16 May, undertakings must report the results of their follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e295	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e300	My question was the follow-up service. It is the responsibility of health companies, hospitals. You can't reach the targets today. You don't have enough midwives to give the security that Stortinget has said that birthing women are going to have. It is reduced because the funding has been transferred to a tight hospital budget. Especially in the area where the bulwark guerrillas have been most obvious, in the North Sea, where there are islands, the birth department from Kristiansund is moved before the new hospital on Health is planned to be started and completed. My question was: why is it not possible to meet the 2009 Storing Communication, which would provide a comprehensive service in the areas where accompanying services constitute the very security of these women? This has been asked by the Peasant League to respond to the Minister of Health since October.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e308	I understand that for the Workers' Party it is good to put a line there, at the follow-up service, and not to talk about the violent effort being made in the municipal sector. But it is the prerequisite for having a midwife who can be a part of the accompanying service. There is cooperation between municipalities and health companies to ensure that the accompanying service is there. There is a clear and clear guideline that is 90 minutes away, health-care providers should make an agreement with municipalities on accompanying services. It is an advantage now that there are actually so many midwives in the municipalities who can contribute to this, in contrast to what the Labour Party's policy has contributed to in the past. Then they are asked to report from health businesses. There, health businesses have done too little follow-up work. Therefore, a structured review of this has been requested. A deadline has been set for 16 May for feedback to ensure the accompanying service requirement for all those who have more than 90 minutes of travel time. But the most important thing is that you have a good first-line service that ensures that we select the risk births at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e315	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e320	I feel quite certain that if there had been a suggestion from Health South-East that all born in Oslo were to be transported to Otta to be born there, the Prime Minister would have dared to say that it is totally unacceptable, because you cannot transport birthing so far, for three to four hours. And that's what's the discussion here: when it comes to the discussion on the Helgeland coast and in More and Romesdal, it's about that kind of transport distance: that you have to transport natives from Oslo to Otta. Of course it is unacceptable, of course our Prime Minister is against it. But it's no easier to be transported far if you live on the Helgeland coast or on the North Sea. It should be the same standard if you live in District Norway as if you live in central Norway. It has to be good food supplies all over Norway. Can the Prime Minister give a clear answer as to whether she thinks it is acceptable for more born in Norway to have a transport distance such as Oslo-Otta?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e327	I think it is very important that we have a good food supply throughout the country. A good supply of food is differentiated, as the Stortinget has decided. There are maternity wards in some places, maternity wards in some places, and specialist measures such as: for children who may have challenges when born to ensure them. That's why there's a staircase in this offer, and the most important start on this staircase is what happens in the municipality, that the midwife who follows you in pregnancy is able to see danger signals that make you find out if you, for example, are pregnant. have to be sent to the Rikshospitalet — if this is the case, because you can experience major problems in pregnancy — or whether you have to go to a central hospital or can be born in a local hospital. The differentiated offer should remain there in Norway, in line with what the Stortinget has said. Then I mean I can't pre-shoot the discussion that goes to Helgeland. There's still a discussion about two hospitals or one hospital. Most municipalities agreed a few years ago that there should be one hospital; now they might have a different meaning. This is a process that must be allowed to go its own way until they make a real decision and make a recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e334	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e339	In a number of cases in the Official Journal of Bergen over the past few weeks, it has been found that the 52 American fighter aircraft Norway will buy will be much more expensive than expected. The hangars in Ørland are getting more expensive, the weapon systems are getting more expensive. In total, the bill is going to increase by 16 billion. kr, according to BT's calculations. That's a lot of money. In comparison, BT’s estimates show that it corresponds to the cost of four frigates — or in welfare crowns 36 to 150 nurseries. At the top of this, the air protection bill will be more expensive. There is uncertainty about the currency costs, so that billions can fly even faster than they already do. The battle lights are becoming the exact price bomb against which the critics have warned. We, who have argued to buy fewer aircraft, have always claimed that the planes can be too expensive, and that the bill will be a bloody lot around the neck of the rest of the Defense, at a time when we need investment in the Army and in the Maritime Defense. Each year, the government has determined in the government budget that the control target of the fighter aircraft program is fixed. In the 2019 budget, that wording is gone. SV has asked the Minister of Defence about this in writing. He goes around the pike in his answer, but now says that the probability of reaching the control target is lower than before. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: Why is the Stortinget only now, in an answer to a written question after a media disclosure, informed that the likelihood of budget congestion has increased – and not where the information should have been provided, namely in the State budget for 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e350	The Kampfly programme conducts detailed analyses of the costs of acquisition each year, and the Government informs the Storting about this in the annual budget proposals. It's been done every year. It's very important for me to be clear on one thing: the purchase of combat poetry has no cost. The expected cost of acquisition is 82.7 billion. kr. It is under the cost framework set by Stortinget in 2012. It is true that it is above the Ministry of Defence's internal governance targets, but it is therefore under the cost framework that was set. The size is briefed on the main uncertainties of currency and arms acquisitions. Some cost-reduction measures have been introduced in this work. Negotiations with the supplier have resulted in a reduction in the prices of aircraft and associated equipment by about 8 billion. kr. So when Bergen's magazine writes that the entire bill is close to 100 billion. kr, they're talking about more than the acquisition of fighter aircraft. The paper then includes the incurred and future operating costs of the project as well as the costs of the development of weapons before the cost framework was established. We believe that it is wrong to refer these expenses to a cost check. It was expenditure that had been incurred before the cost level had been established. The Official Journal of Bergen also includes constructions and constructions on Ørland and Evenes. So it's like this project has its own cost framework, outside of the aircraft acquisition itself. There are no cost estimates for the buildings and installations being built, but there is a slightly larger estimate of, among other things. protection related to Örland and the regulatory plan, due to increased protection and protection requirements. It's not a cost tip, but it's a little above the internal governance targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e361	We can discuss words back and forth, but the reality is that the planes are going to be very much more expensive than the Storting and the government until now have laid down, and so we get a big, uncovered bill. The Prime Minister should not try to talk it down, for that billion bill she has to take responsibility for covering up, and the price for the rest of the Defense can be very high. Then, of course, it's very relevant for Storting, when ordering the last planes, to know if it's likely that the price we've been running for until now is achievable or not. And the state budget for 2019 does not make it clear, what the government is now saying, namely that the governance objective no longer seems realistic. When the budget for 2019 came, there were still 12 aircraft that had not been ordered. Now there's still six. In that situation, the government was allowed to say that the probability of reaching the governance objective is lower than before. Does the Prime Minister really think that this is not relevant and important information for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e370	It might be nice if I, for Stortinget, clarified the difference between a management target and a cost framework. The cost framework is the financial ceiling adopted by the Storting for acquisition, i.e. the framework adopted by the Storing. It also includes a provision for uncertainty, including currency, for that acquisition. There is no cost impact on this compared to the roof Stortinget has set. The governance framework, which the representative Lysbakken is now talking about, is the Ministry's internal cost objectives. That's the room that project managers have. There it seems that it is a little bit more expensive than what was added to it. This means that the uncertainty reserves set and included in the cost framework must be used. But there's a lot of projects that you have inequalities about this. And this is a way of steering hard – that those who run the project do not have the entire cost framework at their disposal without any new decisions being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e379	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e384	The size needs no instruction on the differences between the cost framework and the governance objectives. The question is why the government does not provide clear information that it is no longer likely to achieve the governance objective. Because that's what determines how much money we have to pay for the planes, and therefore how much bill we have to cover at the rest of the defense's expense. The question is why the government has chosen not to provide clear information about it to the Storting where it should have been given; in the budget for 2019. Why is this important? Yes, because in the context of the 2019 budget we were asked to order another six aircraft. For 2020, we are probably asked to order six more flights. I think most people will disagree with the Prime Minister for that 16 billion. kr is a little bit more expensive. 16 B.C.E. NOK is a terrible amount of money. Therefore, I still wonder when the Prime Minister thought that Stortinget would receive that information: before or after the last flights were ordered?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e392	We have informed about these processes in all the budgets. The challenge of spending now, which can be an area where it is more expensive, is the purchase of weapons. The arms purchases are the most vulnerable part at the moment. The total amount of weapons we buy has not changed, but they have been adjusted for some types of weapons because they have gone out of production. So what was assumed in the red-green government in 2012 has become immature in 2019 and is no longer produced. That's why we buy other weapons. A very large part of this is not yet acquired and not yet ordered. Therefore, it is important for us to work to reduce the costs associated with this. This is the Stortinget informed in the budget proposals for 2018 and 2019 that it is one of the main elements of uncertainty that can also generate expenditure growth in the programme. But the planes, as the representative repeatedly says, are becoming more expensive, have actually become cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e399	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e404	It's because we buy planes that we need weapons. So the bill I think would be wise to look at below one. It would be foolish to have these planes without weapons once we've got them.11:22:48 It is only to acknowledge that the Prime Minister will not take any self-criticism that this information has not been clearly provided. That's what Stortinget has to consider how we're going to follow up. But since she's talking about the price of the weapons systems, I'd like to ask you something that's closely related to it, the question of the dollar rate, because in the calculations for the fighter aircraft program, there's a lot to say about the costs. For the 2019 budget, the Ministry has set the dollar rate at NOK 7.70, although the average price of dollars in 2018, according to DNB, was DKK 8.13. In fact, the average course was not a single month last year as low as NOK 7.70. Why is that important? Yes, because lower prices did not make the price tag for these arms purchases appear in the government's draft budget. I wonder why the Prime Minister has allowed the Minister of Defense to try himself as a currency strategist, and what really underlies the government's dollar calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e411	What underlies the government’s dollar calculations is the methodology established in 2012 by the red-green government through their external quality assurance system when the 2012 cost framework was adopted. It was then applied using a method that ensures the consistency and objective calculation of costs over time, so that they are comparable. That's the background because we've used it. The methodology has been used in this programme since 2012, and recommended by the external quality assurance authority when the red-green government went to the Stortinget and adopted this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e416	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e421	What comes now from professional comments on this suggests that there is something the government should consider. So the effect is that the impression of budget deficits is dampened by something that seems to be a completely unrealistic price estimate. Let's get to what I think is a lot of questions, not least in the defense, because regardless of whether you're talking about a cost or not, there's every reason to talk about, when the governance targets are abandoned, regardless of what the Prime Minister calls it, the Storting is left with an uncovered bill of billions. Then it's time, not least before the Stortinget decides to order the last six planes, to hear how Erna Solberg intends to cover that bill. So we have great investment needs in the Army. We have a lot of investment needs in the Marine Defense. We have a long tradition of making large investments in the Defence that are not followed by sufficient appropriations for operation. Who is going to pay for the prize bomb the fighter planes have become – is it the Army, is it the Maritime Defense, or is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e428	The government is presenting a new long-term plan that will show the investment portfolio in the future, the projects that have entered, practice and training, the dimensioning in the future. That's what we're going to provide for treatment in the next major session. That's the way it's now. I'm not going to guarantee that we'll be done, but the plan is that we should be able to present it in the next big session. All of these questions about what we have of space, what are cost increases, and what we're going to do for, for example. replacing the frigate, these concepts, is now out for investigation. So for the time being, we are keeping the cost framework established by the red-green government. We're using the same rules for the calculation of currency that were laid down by the Red-Green Government. Then I might think that the Light Bin would tone down the attempt to insinuate that we're kind of hiding something, hiding something or something. This government is going to propose increased defence budgets in the years to come, and fundamental in our defence concept is that we can keep control in an airspace. That's why fighter planes are so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e435	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e440	I insinuate nothing, but I ask the Prime Minister questions that it is difficult to get answers to, among other things. because I have asked the Minister of Defense to come to Stortinget and explain and he says no to that. At least he makes it the papers. I have not received an answer to the letter I sent. Then the prime minister almost has to get the same questions here. The point is that for years we have warned that what is happening could happen, that the bill is getting so high that there will be a major financing problem for the Defence for the rest. It is therefore of very political importance that we get on the table what this will actually cost, while there is still time to think about. There are only six planes left before Stortinget ordered all the 52, and then I think it is reasonable that Stortinget should know the price tag before the last decision is taken. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister if she thinks that's the case. Because if what Bergen's Official Journal has written about the dollar rate is correct, the cost framework is also at risk. If so, does the Prime Minister believe that the last six planes should be ordered at any cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e447	We will inform the Storting about these decisions when they are proposed, but I am concerned that we need to have a good aircraft in Norway. That's part of the defense concept we have. I respect the fact that SV has a different defence concept, where there is no understanding that airspace control is important in order to secure us and secure Norwegian forces. But as the picture of today's war is, it's very little of the activity you have on the ground that's going to be able to do something in particular if you don't have control of the airspace, if you don't have the ability to deliver resistance there. We see that in all the war scenarios that are today. That's why it's to have a fighter plane and have enough fighter planes as a prerequisite for a lot of the other money we also spend in defense. That's how this government is going to increase the defence budgets, as we've done every year. Defense expenditure is increased by over 30 pst. in real terms during this time. Because we make sure that we actually finance the operations that the investments require. So there'll be room for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e454	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e460	I don't think the prime minister is worth constructing strawmen. What SV has proposed, is 40 flights instead of 52, and we're to have a fighter weapon. But we're also in order to have an army capable of defending Norway. We are also in order to have a marine defense capable of asserting our sovereignty in our large seas. The fear that is now spreading in the Defense – and this is not just something SV is talking about – is that the bill for the prize bomb we have here is going to go out on the Army and the Maritime Defense. The Prime Minister has not said anything today that gives people reason not to worry about it. On the contrary, the message is that you have not had any things you should have reported about, here is a bad course no matter how much the price will be. I think Stortinget needs more rounds of this. That is why my last question to the Prime Minister is whether she would like to take a round with the Minister of Defense and ask him to reconsider his refusal to report to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e467	The Minister of Defence has answered in detail, also with detailed reporting of when the Stortinget has been informed, on many of the questions raised by the representative. It is not certain that there is a need for new rounds around this, until you have entered and looked at what information Stortinget has actually received. I believe that the Stortinget is informed about this. The picture drawn by a high cost dot is not correct. Keep the cost framework. The fact that we are a little bit above our governance objective is also an uncertainty that we have set aside in the cost framework that was at the time. It is that the currency challenges are a challenge for many investments in Norway that buy a lot from abroad, but we also have a methodology for how we calculate it, and we have maintained the same type of method. I'm concerned that we're going to have a reinforced defense. That is why we are now taking care to refurbish the defence – material, training, practice – and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e476	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e481	The government would like to say that fixed employment is the general rule in Norway, but in practice they undermine that rule by opening up more temporary employment and by protecting the manning industry. From 1 January, the crew industry legislation was tightened up, but what happens? Well, now the trustees in the trade union movement say that the employment agencies offer jobs down to 3 and 5 pst. If you're lucky, you get a 20 pst position. The last is the recommendation of the NHO Service and Trade – the so-called “serious recruitment agencies”. Then you'll get a job one day a week or the first 10 weeks of the year. Of course, this is totally unprofessional, and it happens even if there is a need for full-time employees. This industry undermines the Norwegian model, which is based on full and permanent jobs. The industry is characterized by the fact that few are organized, that there is a lack of trust elected, and that there is zero participation. Solberg has said several times that we all have to work more to afford to maintain well-being. Then it is nice that the government protects about an industry that employs people down to 3–5 percentage points. All indications are that, at best, staff agencies will offer permanent part-time contracts to employees. Solberg believes that involuntary part-time time of 5, 20 or 50 pst. shall be the new normal working day, or shall companies be required to be employed in full and regular positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e490	The Government believes that permanent employment should be a general rule. We also want to have as many full-time jobs as possible – if you don’t want to do something else voluntarily. At the same time, in many industries, for example, there is a need for: seasonal labour force, something more temporary is needed for a period of time. What we now see from the last AKU numbers is that the number of temporary, i.e. people in temporary jobs, has fallen significantly lately. This may be because the economy is now getting better and employers are also afraid to hire people who have been in temporary jobs to be tested – now they are going into permanent employment. There is no ban on small job breaks in Norway, but there are some clear principles about what can be given by low job breaks, i.e. what is needed. It is that the agreed job fraction for a permanent employee must be real. It can't be fictitious, that you look at a small fraction and use – and plan to use – a person much, much more than that. The employment fraction can therefore not be lower than the employer at the time of employment plans to use an employee. In addition, the contract of employment shall specify or provide the basis for calculating when the work is to be carried out. The point of this provision is precisely to prevent workers from remaining at their disposal without ensuring more than one part-time job. That's what the legislation is. I have no idea – and I don't think any of us have – how actors have adapted to the new rules. But we assume that these rules follow the set intentions and that they should not be undermined by creative solutions. I also feel that the social partners are engaged in higher job breaks – including the crew industry. Among other things, the head of the NHO, Ole Erik Almlid, went out in February and said that employment contracts are unacceptable down to 5-10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e501	One side, the employee side, wants the agencies gone. The other party offers standard 20 pst contracts, which are extremely small in order to live on it and to have predictability of income over an entire year. State Council Hauglie claims that renting is low, but she admits that there are additional challenges in the construction industry in parts of the country. The state-owned figures show that the rent rate is 20 pst. in their construction sites, and it is far above the figures that Anniken Hauglie is operating with. If the government really wants to clean up the unprofessional situation of the manning industry, will the government consider a ban on manning agencies in construction sites in the Oslo area if the new rules that have been introduced do not reduce the rent share or cause the industry to consider people in real terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e510	I believe that the manning industry is a completely legitimate industry that is important for the flexibility of Norwegian society. I believe that it helps smaller companies – Norwegian companies – to take on large contracts to do construction projects, because you can pick up additional labour. I believe that a general ban on recruitment agencies, for example. The construction industry would mean that only the very largest players could take on jobs and that there would be more foreign companies, which had more flexibility in the labour force being brought in, in the large projects. We have to bring that with us. You don't have a portfolio of things to ensure that you can have full staff all the time. Then people would be cancelled more quickly, and there would be more people who were outlawed. I think we have to see that there is also a positive side to the recruitment agencies, but it should be proper and tidy, and it should not be a distortion for regular jobs for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e517	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e522	The release came in 2000. After the war and until 2000 there was no release of these agencies, and we obviously built the country at that time too – even Norwegian companies. So we've done it before, without it being free for these agencies. More than a year ago, Red got the majority of the population on a decision with a clear message to the government: Come to the Stortinget with measures to get more people organized in the labour market. It has been followed up by Hauglie by holding a seminar. It's all right, but a seminar isn't enough to sign out that big decision. We wonder what the government will actually do with measures to ensure that more people organise themselves in Norwegian working life, and when those measures will come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e531	It is not the case that there was no hiring of labour until 2000, even if it was only when recruitment agencies were provided in more areas than the areas for which it was opened, which were within offices and other temporary employment agencies. Those of us who have been with a while know that on the Western yards there were hired Yugoslav and Finnish welders. It was rented out from foreign companies, and there was a rental between companies that were in Norway. The point is that at that time it was more difficult for a smaller enterprise to pick up that kind of labour force. The fact that we have recruitment agencies is likely to help you get more Nordics to work, and to get more smaller companies that can take on larger jobs. I'm not in doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e538	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e544	I just want an answer to the question that I asked: When does the government come up with measures that make more people organize, as the Storting has decided and asked the government to come along? When do we get that, and what are the measures that the government sees fit to take care of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e549	We work with many cooperation platforms with the social partners, which help to show that it is attractive, for example. to organise. Last night, for example, came. the performance of tripartite cooperation in the field of action in the field of sectoral programmes and other. These are contributions that make it more attractive. We look at various measures that can contribute to a better level of organisation. But I want to arrest the myth that the degree of organisation is getting lower at the moment. It doesn't. It is quite flat among the workers, at approx. 49 p.m., and have been there for the last 10-12 years. It's gone up among companies. So the employer's side has organized more. So under this government, there's actually a higher level of organization among parts of the world of work and the social partners, and it's been completely flat. The interesting thing is that the organization has been flat under both the red-green and the bourgeois government. Despite the increase in tax deductions by the red-green government, it is not possible to read from the statistics that it resulted in more organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e556	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e561	The Prime Minister said last year that the cleaning up of the rental code was the government's biggest defeat. This is probably why the government does not care whether or not the rules are being followed and put in place a supervision, as requested by the majority of the population. At the same time, the government has removed collective legal rights and made it more expensive to be a member of a trade union. As a result, we see increasing differences in working life, between those who have whole, permanent jobs, and those who are hired, between those who have good contracts and trusts around them, and those who are in unorganised jobs. Many Norwegians feel that they have less money to pay their bills with under today's government, while those who have the highest wages run away — well helped by the government's tax policy. Now we also see that the number of jobs increases more than the number of employees, which shows that it has become more common with more jobs to get the ends to meet. Is the Prime Minister satisfied that the government's policy is increasing the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e570	I believe that we should all take seriously the trends in increasing inequality that we have seen over the last 20 years in Norway. They haven't become much bigger under this government than they have been before, but there are some signs of danger. Some of the greatest signs of increased inequality are, first of all, how to gain access to new competences when technology changes. This is why some of the most important areas of activity in this government are measures that are directly aimed at enabling people to participate more in the labour market, and at ensuring that they have more skills to keep the job. This government has three important areas of activity. It's an inclusion virtue, which we work a lot with, to get more people into work. When the Workers' Party was in government, employers called Poland and Lithuania for employees. Instead, we have said to employers: Call Nav first, we have good cooperation arrangements, and we are working intensively for it. We have an integration work to make sure that you get to work faster when you come from other countries to Norway. And not least – we have a reform of skills that helps to raise skills when technology changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e577	We go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e582	It's not just the food supply that creates commitment in the district for the time being. The proposal to change the structure of the Nordic University has produced strong reactions locally, in particular on Helgeland and in Trøndelag. The concern is that important training courses that provide professionals for professions that are important to our well-being are being built up. We already see a lack of nurses, a lack of teachers, and that is seen not least in Helgeland and in northern Trøndelag. The question is what the government will do in this situation. It was the government that initiated the merger of the University of Nordland, the College of Nesna and the Nord-Trøndelag High School, and it is also the government that has asked Nord University to change its structure. They did so in the letter of allocation sent in December 2018. It's government control signals to the university. Now the government gets what they've asked for, and when the reactions to the proposal of the board of directors of the North University come, the government is actually trying to say two things at a time. On the one hand, they have announced that the structure needs to be changed, and the Prime Minister has also said that the process must go and that she will not instruct the government. That's what she said last night to Namdalsavias. On the other hand, the Minister of Research and Higher Education has sent a letter to the Board of the University asking them to take account of regional needs. So the government sends quite confusing signals both to the university and to the region. One thing is said in the letter of assignment and now something else to the local media. There is uncertainty both in the region and in the higher education sector about how to manage universities and higher education in the future. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if she can attend and clarify the uncertainty that has been created, whether she can be clear on which of the signals the government has sent, she believes the board of directors of North University is now going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e591	There is no difference between what I have said to the local authority and what the minister of research and higher education has written in letters to the company. On the contrary, what I'm saying is there, a reference to that letter, so there's no difference. It is important that Nord University enhances its quality, its educational provision and the quality of its educational provision. Something also has a review and looks at these questions to ensure it. The basic thing for all higher education is that those who receive training and a stamp should be of the highest and best quality possible. Not least, I think it is a requirement that we have to make to universities that recruit many people for district education. We know, for example. that teachers in North Norway are more likely to remain as teachers in North Norway. When we know that the educational outcomes for children in North Norway are very poor, and that some of the greatest inequalities can start with poor education, it is very important that teachers' training there is very high quality. That focus is always going to be the government. Then we have pointed out in the letter sent by the Minister of Research and Higher Education that there are at the same time some other important things that have to be taken into account. Universities and higher education institutions also have a regional responsibility. They have had that since the Bondevik II government decided this when I was a municipal minister. At that time, we had an important impact on them to also take responsibility for the region and the educational needs that are there, and to contribute there. This is why it is important to also have decentralised education and the ability to provide good education decentralised and to meet the needs of the population. On top of that, we have now worked on the reform of skills and the needs of adults for education, in order to have access to education when at the same time at work becomes important. We must also take those considerations into account. Not only can you look at the education of 19–29-year-olds, you have to look at your social role too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e602	If the government had been so concerned with the need for education that met the needs of the regions, or that the North University should have an important role in the reform of competences and offer shorter continuing education, it would have been clearly written in the letter of award in December. The truth is, we hear signals other than what North University has been told to rule after, the last year. To put it bluntly, universities have two feet to stand on, two missions: one is to provide good research, first competence and to meet the requirements of doctoral programmes, which the government has put on, and the other is good education that also hits the districts. The message from government to Nord University has been that one leans too much on one foot, on the district foot – not just through the letter of assignment, the higher education minister even went unsolicited to Nord University and gave it the message. Now I hear that the Prime Minister is concerned about the needs of the region, and then I simply want to ask the Prime Minister if it is such that the need in the region is so important that the government will oversee the government of the North University if it comes to a conclusion that rebels in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e611	I also believe that the representative of the big business will appreciate that there is no process in the middle of which there are now hearings and recordings, and where the board has also made some good conclusions on the road – for example. that they have specifically asked for an analysis of what is going on in order to have a permanent care offer in Namsos, that one goes into these questions a little bit more detail as part of this – starting to say that we put our feet down for it, we put our feet down for it, or else. I think the process needs to be built from below, by making sure to look at it internally at the university with the municipalities. Finally, they need to come up with a solution, where we can also decide whether all of this is sustainable, or how we should contribute in the future to ensure that our objectives – which all universities and colleges have achieved – are also regionally responsible and responsible for providing decentralised education, and that perspectives on it can also be involved in the reform of competences – are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e618	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e624	Good to see the Prime Minister in Namdalen – she should come more often. There is a great shortage of nurses in Norway. Only in Trøndelag, in the area where the Prime Minister visited this week, it is estimated that there is a need of 1,650 unfilled nurses and special caregivers — and nursing training takes decades to build up. The cooperation with the municipalities around the Namsos Hospital has been crucial for the training of nurses at the Nordic University of Namsos to train professionals for our healthcare. Although there have been various signals from the government of the North University, first through a letter of control, asking them to look at the structure and change it, and, last but not least, to take care of different concerns, it is left to the impression after the Prime Minister's visit to Namsos that she has been at peace with the Namsos campus. Can the Prime Minister repeat what leadership she believes North University has to follow further in its process with a new structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e633	As I answered in the previous question, the challenge is to increase the quality of education throughout Norway. I agree that it is very important to have a good nursing training, also decentralised and district-located. But it is also very important that many of the applicants are able to implement. Unfortunately, in several courses and professional training in Norway, both in teacher training and in nursing training, there is a major disqualification. If we had managed to get people through, we would also have met even more of our needs, and not got these closures. For this reason, quality requirements are important for entry, and therefore good quality of education is important. As far as leadership is concerned, we have given leadership that quality and commitment must be worked on, and then the Minister for Research and Higher Education has made it clear that the reform of competence, that the university and higher education sectors will also play a role in adult continuing education, are important and that structural changes in other sectors should not be avoided. It's about, for example, on the discussion of the location of nursing training in an area where the hospital discussion is also on. These things, in a sense, can't pre-shoot the higher education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e640	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e645	I hear the Prime Minister is engaged in decentralised education. I think we all are. However, for a region like Namdalen, having a place of study or only having the opportunity to create study facilities is a big difference. So for this region it will be dramatic if the decision falls in June and you lose the university offer locally. The Prime Minister has visited a business life where we have prominent environments in fish health, for a farming industry that is going to take a lot of growth, but what is perhaps most important for the safety of the namdallings, is that the Hospital Namsos and the municipalities have good access to professionals. There it will be a big difference if you have decentralised education only when there are enough applicants or if you have strong educational institutions. Does the Prime Minister see the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e652	I definitely do. At the same time, we must also remember that some decentralised services are good educational services around the country. We can't have campus anywhere, but we can have good continuing education offers many more places than what we already have in today, in a future structure for higher education. So it's important just when it comes to Namsos, as I also said earlier, that the board has specifically asked you to look at in the further work what it takes to maintain a permanent offer within the hospital in Namsos. I think that's a good way to get that very problem highlighted, because you first deliver to the hospital that's there. This also makes me confident that these issues, which also concern the decentralised education provision, will enable the board to make good assessments and take into account. But at the bottom – to underline just one thing – all educational provision must be qualitatively good. There is no good care in poor education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e659	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e664	The Prime Minister is committed to raising the quality. No other university has had as strong an increase in the number of doctoral degrees in 2018 as Nord universitet has had. Nord universitet has had a strong increase in the number of publication points, which is an important factor in quality. There are happy students at the North University, more satisfied than at many other universities, especially at the teacher's training at Nesna and at the nursing home in Namsos, but what is now on the table is almost a fury from North University. Instead of spending the next three to four years raising quality even more, Nord University is going to be in conflict with the municipalities around it, with the employees, with the political parties locally – including the Right, also the Left – and there is no desired situation to focus on quality. In addition, there is a spread effect. If the government is now hiding behind the board and allowing the North University to carry out such a strong centralization, it's my guess that then the University of Southeast Norway will be the next instance, because they also have eight campuses, and if they see that North University is allowed to shut down campus, they're going to do it too. Is the Prime Minister afraid of such a spread in terms of centralisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e671	Everything in the education system at present suggests that the main areas of growth are going to be outside campus, closer to people, closer to adults who are going to have continuing education. So I don't agree with the horror scenarios that are drawn, that it's going to be much smaller. I think there'll be more education places, more opportunities, more flexible arrangements, many of that kind of offer. But for Nord University, there's also a revision of the doctoral programme within NOKUT, and there's been some anxiety about NOKUT's supervision of the university's work. They shall be an independent body in order to ensure quality, to ensure the quality of training and to provide a bottom plan. The Norwegian education system will provide our young people — and adults in continuing education — with a high quality of everything we do. At the same time, we have to be able to deliver it in different stages and into everyday life to people who need continuing education. I don't think there's going to be any infectious effect of different things. I hope we get one infectious effect, and that's that we're raising the quality. I've said in the past that the best thing would be that one of the traditional old universities had discovered that they didn't have enough quality and had to make an offer. It would have been a good test.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e680	: Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e685	NOKUT will spend the next three years assessing Nord University, so there is no need for Nord University to make major centralisations of its own campus before that time. And as I said, it was one of the universities where most doctoral degrees were awarded in 2018; it's actually just right below OsloMet, it's in line with the University of Agder, and it also has very happy students. So I have to say, I think it's remarkable that the prime minister is not more concerned about the spread effect, because the principal of the University of South East Norway has already said that they have to assess the number of campuses, and that could mean a centralization there as well. And on Steinkjer it is that Nord University has just concluded a ten-year lease with an innovation campus – half a billion dollars – that is built up, and then, in a way, they will leave it and move to Levanger. So some in the board say that then the state must grant money to build up new things on a centralised campus in Levanger. Does the Prime Minister think that this kind of thinking makes sense, both structurally and in terms of the country's use of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e694	There is now a matter going on, a discussion where the principal has made a proposal. It's a discussion, it's going to board later, and it's out for consultation. I cannot take a stand on every claim or on every case from the pulpit of the Storting. We actually have to think that the sense is a little bit evenly distributed. We have to believe that there is an opportunity for the management systems to work, also internally, in finding good solutions to these issues. I also think it is limited how detailed we are going to go into a case where there is actually a consultation round and a board that is going to decide after a consultation round, and where it is only when there is a question of whether there is a possible outcome of this that is so difficult that we have to look at it with other eyes. We've given some guidance signals, because there was one element, or two, that was sub-communicated in the work done by the principal, and it was the future development related to decentralised education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e702	: Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e707	For those affected, this is not the detail. For those affected, this framework is serious. For those municipalities that have had higher education for many decades and are now at risk of being removed from these colleges, this framework is serious. For the Namsos hospital, which is completely dependent on the Namsos nursing training, this framework is serious. I think one should be very careful to say that this is the details, when we go into each campus. I also think one should be careful to push quality ahead, when one knows that North University is now doing a good job. I also believe that with that history, with the letter of assignment that encourages universities to review the structure, while one now writes letters from the Council of State and makes statements from both the leader of the Left and the Prime Minister himself when traveling, that one is nevertheless engaged in decentralised education, the government here should take more control – not only hide behind the skirts of a government, but also be willing to take political responsibility for this debate. Will the government at some point be willing to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e716	It is certainly the case that the government, at the time the board has concluded, may have to look at whether those conclusions are good enough, or whether there are other areas, but so far we are in the start-up phase of the discussion about this, and there is a proposal that is out to be consulted by all concerned. I understand that this is important for everyone, both for employees and for the community. I've just been visiting pretty much everyone on a tour for the last three days, and I see that it's a big commitment. But it's also important in that commitment that those who are to own the development of North University after this process are actually the ones who are involved and mature in that discussion and process, and that everything is not just stopped and comes as a directive from the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e721	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e726	When I hear this questioning, what strikes me is that I'm left with a little bit more uncertainty about how the government will actually control the North University and the university and higher education sectors, because the signals sent out are, to put it mildly, confusing. The letter of assignment says one thing and actually gives a mission to Nord University to look at the structure. At the same time, there has been insufficient financial room for action to Nord University – not enough scholarship holders, not enough study places, such as the Workers' Party. have been proposed, precisely to improve the ability of the Nordic University to meet the requirements of being a university. I would like to ask: by today’s Question Time, the Prime Minister has actually indicated that she will not instruct the board of directors in the governance model we have today – that is what she gets me corrected for if she wants to. But this government has wanted to have a greater distance between political leadership in the ministry and the university governments through, among other things. to identify a business model. So if the government has abandoned the ability to instruct or review, what is it like when the Prime Minister and the government have intended to ensure that the new signals they have given after December 2018 are actually followed up by North University?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e733	The Minister of Research and Higher Education has written a letter to the Board – there is a rather strong action related to this – to point out some of the leaders for whom it might not have been well taken into account or with whom questions could be asked in the principal’s first submissions. It is entirely in line with the government's education policy and higher education policy, that we are working on a reform of competences, that we are actually allocating money. Last year, in the revised national budget, we allocated extra money to develop continuing education programmes for the higher education sector in order to be able to fill in areas not least in the field of technological development and others. Because what we need is to ensure that the educational needs of adults are more met in the sector as well. It's not new – it's generally – that we do it, but it's underlined. That means you've had an active action related to this. But now it's consultation, now it's discussions, now it's different presentations, as it has to be, and then it's also going to happen in the university itself, in the University of Nord, to see how they find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e740	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e745	Now I hear the Prime Minister say that it is a strong signal that the Council of State has sent a letter. If you read that letter, the letter says several different things at once. But it was also a strong signal when the government sent over the letter of assignment. It was a pretty strong signal when the higher education minister went to North University and asked to meet the board to say that you had to look at the structure, get quality up and make sure to meet the requirements of being a university. There was not the district foot on which the university should also stand, particularly emphasized. It's not a clear signal – it's custom political communication. After this round, I need to ask for clarification from the Prime Minister. Now there is a local process going on, but is it such that the Prime Minister keeps the possibility that if the board reaches a conclusion that is in line with the principal’s position or that will generate reactions – in Namsos if nursing training is cut off, or in Nesna if teacher training is cut off – will the government take any other steps that break with the governance model we have now had in the higher education sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e752	If decisions are taken across the government's higher education policy, questions about whether the board is actually doing its job at that time will always be asked. But going into all the leadership that the representative now provided is just one way of trying to torpedo higher education management systems. Now I think there are many good arguments for the different places and for the different issues. These arguments must also be passed on to the North Government. With regard to the hearing opinions, I am absolutely sure that it will be a listening organisation, to look at how to develop it further. We already saw at the first board meeting that some of the clear signals had to be made that we had to find out more. This is a lively discussion of education provision in the Nordic countries and the Nordic countries, which may also provide a wider perspective, without any detailed management of all this from the Stortinget or from the state, before reaching good conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e761	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e775	There will be a wide range of changes in the set questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic questionnaire in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Immigration who is directing him. However, the question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Justice and Immigration has left. Question 3, from the representative Martin Kolberg to the Minister for Transport, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 9, by Kari Henriksen of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who has been away. Question 10, from the representative of Mr Aasrud to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 11 and 12 from the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete and Sandra Borch respectively to the Minister for Defence are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 13, 14 and 15 from the representatives of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Åsmund Aukrust and Une Bastholm respectively to the Minister for Climate and Environment have been withdrawn. Question 16, from the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is raised by the representative Eirik Faret Sakarissen. Question 19, from the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, is answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Immigration, who has left. Question 20, from Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e803	‘In the Political Quarter of 21 March, the Grandfather of the Progress Party, Jon Engen-Helgheim, refers to the message of climate change as ‘fearful propaganda’ and ‘hystery’. Engen-Helgheim also states that climate change is not fatal, that the heat wave in the summer was something we should ‘new’, and that ‘it is rare’ we get in the summers. Engen-Helgheim rejects that the heat wave last year of a part of a larger trend. Does the Council of State agree with Helgheim, or does the Council of State agree with the researchers who conclude that summer was part of a larger trend?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e810	The Paris Agreement aims to limit global warming to well below 2 degrees in comparison with pre-industrial levels and aims to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees because this will significantly reduce the risk and impacts of climate change. Norway has acceded to the Paris Agreement. The government's ambitious climate policy works. Emissions are decreasing, especially from road traffic, where emissions were reduced by 9.5 pst. in 2017. Norwegian emissions have not been lower since 1995. Of course, we see this in the replacement of the car park. In order to stimulate a lower-emission car park, the one-off charge has been shifted in an environmentally friendly direction. Environmental differentiation of car taxes and benefits for electric cars have contributed to the fact that more than half of new passenger cars are now able to drive fully or partially on electricity. Norway is the world leader in electric cars. It rolls over 200,000 electric cars on Norwegian roads. The temperature may change significantly from one year to the next. The warm summer last year illustrates this. The world's average temperature has increased by about 1 degree since pre-industrial time. The extent to which this underlying temperature rise affected the high summer temperature last year is uncertain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e819	It is clear that what representatives of a government party think about climate change has something to say. At the national meeting of the Progress Party, the representative Tybring-Gjedde was elected to the party leadership in the Progress Party with the message: I am a climate skeptic – to the applause of the national meeting. The representative Carl I. Hagen said that CO 2 has nothing to do with climate. State councillor Sylvi Listhaug, a member of the government, answered in an interview in the newspaper this weekend to ask if she believes that there is human activity behind climate change, that this is an ongoing discussion. What does the Minister of Finance think about these statements, and will the Minister of Finance guarantee that these tone-setting members – including in the management – of the Government Party The Progress Party will not be able to make an impact on the government for their belief that climate change is not man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e829	The Minister of Finance naturally fully supports government policies both in this area and in all other areas on which government policies are based. Then I can inform the representative, Kaski, that the Progress Party programme makes it very clear that we should base ourselves on the precautionary principle of climate policy, that we should base international agreements, that we should be committed to implementing sensible measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and that we are generally committed to facilitating measures that stimulate people to change behaviour in a positive way. So there's a lot of ways to do it. You can pick the whip or you can pick the carrot. Many of the carrots that this government has used in climate policy work. Emissions are going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e836	We're going to leave the discussion of instruments to another time. We often have it in this room. Now I am interested in the views of the Progress Party on whether climate change is man-made. We know that over the last 150 years, we've been increasing the CO2 content of the atmosphere. Researchers agree that there is a direct link between the increase in CO 2 in the atmosphere and the increase in average temperature, and that more precipitation, more extreme weather, and more episodes of extreme temperatures, such as the heat wave last year, have occurred with increased temperature. We also know from last year that hot waves have quite dramatic consequences, especially economically, as our agriculture experienced, but also that in other countries it can be directly life-threatening. There have been many lives in Europe in the last 18 years. This is important because the Progress Party controls the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Finance – departments responsible for large greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Therefore, the question of whether it is an independent objective of the Progress Party to reduce emissions when controlling these departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e851	The representative, Kaski, began by saying that we had to take the debate on the instruments later. I totally disagree with that. That's what we do, which is decisive, not the vocabulary of political change. I mean, we're going to measure what we're actually doing, and this government is going to get the emissions down. That is what we do through the approaches we take in transport policy, through the allocations we have through climate instruments, through the way we have changed the charges. The sum of the measures taken by this government is effective. Emissions are going down. That's because this government has and is going to continue to have an ambitious climate policy. However, we want to use other instruments than SV and other parties in Stortinget, which, in my opinion, would have been significantly more severe than Norwegian businesses and jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e871	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e879	‘HUNT study shows that 60-70 pst. the population is obese and one in five Nordics is obese. Between 30 and 40 pst. of those who have a BMI above 27 and who are seeking help for their overweight problem, they actually have an overeating disorder, so that conventional treatment as a nutrition and physical activity does not solve the problem. The treatment provision for people with overeating disorders is very limited. What will the Council of State do to improve treatment provision for people with this most common form of eating disorder?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e886	Eating disorders are a serious disorder. This includes overeating, although this is not yet a diagnosis according to the diagnostic system used in Norway today, the so-called ICD-10 system. We know that a large proportion of obesity suffers from overeating and depression. National Professional Guideline on Eating Disorders came in 2017. This includes overeating disorder. The guideline refers to the investigation, treatment and follow-up of persons with eating disorders in primary and specialist health services. Psychotherapy is a highly recommended treatment for suffering. In addition, diet, physical activity and operation are current treatment interventions. All mental health care clinics for children and young people and adults across the country provide services to people with eating disorders. All health regions have established regional units for the treatment of particularly severe eating disorders. Local and regional health services have important tasks in terms of treatment, referral and follow-up. Good practices for cooperation between somatic and mental health services are important. The first package courses for mental health and drug use are implemented, so that all patients with mental health disorders are now referred to the package sequence. The first package steps that came were general, in the sense that they included all patients referred to, regardless of the type of mental disorder. Packing processes for the investigation and treatment of serious eating disorders for children and young people are now also being implemented. This process applies to all types of eating disorders. The aim is greater predictability, better interaction, shorter waiting times, better investigation and treatment procedures and greater patient involvement. Several package sequences are also planned in the area. The Ministry is aware that overeating was included in the update of the diagnostic system presented by the WHO in 2018, ICD-11. Experience has shown that it takes some time for new versions of the diagnostic system to be implemented in Norway, as this is a rather perceptive work on translation and revision of code works, etc. It is believed that this may involve greater attention on the psychological side of obesity, but it is too early to say what practical consequences this has. I understand the concern behind the question from the representative Grung, as it has not always been easy to get good treatment for overeating disorders. However, I assume that, among other things. the package trajectories will be an important tool to ensure that all patients are well investigated and treated for the eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e903	Thanks for the answer. The challenges associated with this suffering, which includes a lot of people, are both stigmatic and paralysing the threshold and looking for the auxiliaries. Although it has been better organised once inside, there is still a lack of resources and status related to working within the treatment system for this group. At the same time, we have guidance on what to do. From my time in the Health Committee, I remember one thing: It took an average of 17 years from guidelines in place until they were implemented. When it is so extensive, and when you know what obstacles exist – even if you have done something in the middle – what will the Minister do to ensure that you get enough resources and that this is prioritised, given how many have been affected by this suffering?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e912	I am, in the same way as the representative Grung, concerned about the moment it takes before new guidelines and new knowledge are implemented in healthcare. The new national vocational guidance for eating disorders came in 2017. This includes overeating disorders. I believe that the precisely package trajectory — that methodology — helps to speed up the implementation of new knowledge and new treatment methods in the service, because a person is working more systematically with this. Generally speaking, we work for and implement a strengthening of the treatment provision in the field of mental health. We all agree that there is stigma attached to overeating and overweight problems as an eating disorder, and there is a threshold that we have to lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e921	One way to lower that threshold is maybe through cooperation with non-governmental organisations. In Norway, an organisation called ROS, Consulting on eating disorders, which was the only one that received funding from the 1 million-dollar volunteer pot, was built. kr. Now, suddenly, there are two organisations – a new one has arrived – and the amount is divided into two. It creates difficult challenges and unforeseeability for organisations that are now building up. The number of users who contact has sessioned. It also turns out that you can prevent quite a lot at the first threshold, by sorting between those who really need treatment and those who need less assistance. How will it be ensured that the skills built up in non-governmental organisations targeted at this target group are strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e928	Yeah, I'm familiar with that issue. When part of the work in this area is done by non-governmental organisations, it must also be possible for other organisations to be set up. Then we have to have a fair management of the allocation of funds to the organisations that meet the criteria. And then we're going to come back to an assessment of whether there's a need to raise this pot at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e933	So let's go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e941	‘Centralisation has not made births safer. There's a distance from birthplace that's a crucial factor in survival for mother and child, a birth is never without risk. The size of the population has reduced the number of deaths caused by a decision in May last year to secure current food establishments, so further cuts in food supply will be against the will of politicians. How can the Council of State let the Helgelands Hospital investigate a hospital structure that will give birthing women a longer way to a food supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e948	Fortunately, the strong centralisation of the food supply that took place when state politicians ran the hospitals, which is the model the Centre Party wants to go back to, has stopped. The representative Mossleth asks how I can let the Helgelands Hospital investigate future hospital structures. The answer is that it is the Helgelands Hospital, and not least the municipalities of Helgeland, who themselves took the initiative on what would be the future hospital offer at Helgeland. They asked me to initiate this investigation. In this connection, I visited the hospitals in Helgeland, Brønnøysund Municipality and other affected municipalities in the autumn of 2015. It provided the basis for seeing that there was a great deal of agreement that there was a need for change, even though one at that time was not ready to conclude on where the various offers should be. I then held a business meeting in 2015, which meant that Health Nord was given the mandate for the further investigation work. The Helgelands Hospital has a large geographic area. I understand that there is a great deal of commitment and attention around the discussion about changing the organisation of the service provision, especially the food supply, but there are no decisions made. There must be good processes in the future. I point out that the future food supply at the Helgeland Hospital was also the subject of the board seminar last week, where challenges with distances were highlighted in the health company's board of directors. The next milestone is the board meeting in the Helgelands Hospital in October/November. The matter shall then be dealt with by the Board of Health North, before it is likely to end up on my table at the end. There is no active centralisation of food institutions today, by which the representative Mossleth tries to create an impression. In the national health and hospital plan, we have said that the distribution of smaller food departments and feeding rooms must ensure that we are close to the food supply even outside the large women’s clinics. In fact, in the national health and hospital plan, we have drawn up a hospital map for Norway that ensures a decentralised hospital structure, so that people no longer need to wake up to newspaper headlines that their local hospitals should be closed down, such as this. was then the Center Party was in government. There were two areas that were not completed. It was the Inland, and it was Helgeland. In both areas, the local initiative to discuss the hospital structure, which at that time had not come far enough for us to draw conclusions. Those processes are currently in progress. Conclusions will be drawn at a later stage, but it is important to have a decentralised hospital service in Norway. There's going to be more activity in the smaller hospitals, not less activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e961	Governments have to deal with the decision taken by the Stortinget last May that food supply should not be reduced. The resource group that recommended the hospital structure in Helgeland consists of eight members. Six of them are men – and none of them are from the guerrillas. In the first proposal, birthing women were not even mentioned, there was no room between urban and housing price assessments in the report. I have to ask again. With the decision made by the Stortinget in May that there should be no more closures, in memory: How could the Council of State, as the top authority, have made changes without ensuring food institutions, when we know that women get up to four hours of driving time with the proposal made by the resource group?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e968	If the Central Party considers that that decision does not mean that there may be any changes in the structure of the two areas that we pointed out at national health and hospital level that local processes are in progress in, the Inland and Helgeland, it is a rather alarming position. Then I have to ask the representative to contact the Central Party in the interior and inform them that all their participation in the process in the Inland must stop, because the Central Party in the Inland is also involved and are the suppliers of the changes that are being discussed there. So it'll be a very eye-catching position to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e973	I record that the Council of State does not say anything about what he thinks of women who are born with the proposal available, getting four hours of driving time to a food institution. At the same time, we are very aware that midwife Schjelledrup-Eriksen has been very clear that there is three times the risk of death to be born outside of the food establishment than within. Feeding during transportation or on the bath floor leads to a greater risk that something might go wrong, and it is physically impossible to provide good birth care in a car. What does the Council of State look like in four hours' time to the birthplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e978	This will be a very central theme of the work now taking place in the Helgelands Hospital. As I also said in my first reply to the representative: it was among other things. the recent theme of the Governing Board to have a discussion on these issues. So this will be important in the future discussions on how the structure should look on Helgeland. Of course, the structure related to food and emergency services is one of the most central issues discussed in the determination of the hospital structure. So trying to make it look like this isn't a theme is directly wrong. There is a significant strengthening of the overall supply in Norway. Women who give birth are more satisfied now than they were in 2011. We have a strong build-up of the number of midwives in the municipalities. The threat of a solid or a continuous centralisation of the hospital offer under the Central Party in government is no longer present in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e985	So we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e993	«We are lucky to live longer. By 2040, the number over 80 will triple. In the districts in particular, there are several older people. This also increases the need for health care. In Namsos we have a local hospital to help both old and young. We know that locally educated people like to stay where they studied. So when Nord University is threatening to drop nurse training in Namsos and several health professionals, how will the Council of State ensure that local hospitals can recruit qualified health professionals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1000	Health and care services depend entirely on the training of adequate personnel in the university and higher education sectors with the skills required by the service. I am familiar with a proposal from the administration of North University on fewer places of study and to drop nurse training in Namsos, which has created a lot of local resistance. It's not surprising. We know that hospitals and municipalities that are close to study places that train health professionals have easier access to staff. This applies both after completion of the study and during the course of the study, as students often contribute with shifts on weekends and holidays. The Management Board of the Nordic University shall examine the matter on which the representative Kjerkol is based in June. In a letter to the university, the Minister for Research and Higher Education wrote that she believed that the board carefully assessed the views expressed by various actors. In particular, they need to consider how the need for health businesses can be met. State Council Nybø considers it important that the study structure of the Nordic University facilitates access for all parts of the region to good skills and labour, and that in this respect it is important that the board assesses the impact of the study structure on other parts of the working and social life and how the need can be addressed in places where major changes can be made. I assume that good dialogue is ensured between the university and the health and care services in the area. Health and care services work both to attract and train health professionals and to ensure that they remain in the service. We know that offering permanent jobs, a good professional environment and the possibility of continuing training contribute positively to attractive jobs for health professionals. We need good access to nurses and other health professionals across the country, and we rely on the university and higher education sectors to train enough health professionals with the right skills in good cooperation with healthcare. At the same time, health and care services must continue to work to maintain staff, including: through development of competences. Competence will also be one of the main themes of the new National Health and Sickness Plan for the period 2020-2023, which we are planning to submit to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1011	There is a lack of nurses throughout Norway — the Council of State also knows that. Only in Trøndelag is it estimated that 1 650 nurses and specialist nurses are missing, and building a nurse training takes several decades – it takes generations, those who run it will claim. For the municipality of Namso, which is a large Norwegian municipality with its 12 000–13,000 inhabitants, 95 pst. by nurses recruited from the training in Namsos. In the neighbouring municipality of Overhalla there are 85 pst. It is clear that recruiting without this good access to highly qualified nurses will be a major challenge. Then I hear you point out that the Council of State Nybø has sent me a request, but I think what you need is assurances that you still have to train nurses in this region who have problems and who do not queue first to recruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1018	Now, the administration of North University has made a proposal. It's out at the hearing. I think everyone has come up with the important and significant objections that have been raised to this proposal. The next step in this matter is that the board of directors of the University of Nord will deal with the matter, and I have great faith that they have the ability to see, hear and get the arguments that are being put forward. For my part, it is important – and it is a general message that we give both to the university and higher education sectors and to the health sector – that the two sectors need to have a continuous dialogue, so that one works together and solves the common needs that one has. I think the representative is drawing up important and important points in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1023	It is important to have predictability in the healthcare system, and a hospital such as the Namsos Hospital, which is an emergency hospital, has been established by the Council of State through the previous National Health and Hospital Plan as an emergency hospital. That means they're a significant educational institution, and they're dependent on having activity and what we're talking about as selective activity, in order to be able to be there with enough volume to handle the acute functions that the Storting has said they should have. When the Stortinget adopted the National Health and Hospital Plan, once again this mantra was confirmed that we should centralize what we need, but decentralize what we can. In this process, Health Nord-Trundelag has asked for decentralised functions from St. Olav. The only thing they were offered was ritual circumcision for boys. I think the Council of State can see that they felt like a little provocation. But this is an exercise we have to succeed in. How has the Council of State intended to succeed better with this in the time ahead of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1030	The representative is quite right that, through the treatment of the national health and hospital plan, we have removed the doubts that have occurred in the past that the hospital Namsos will continue to be an emergency hospital in the future – that should be the case. That is why it is important for me that my fellow Councillor Nybø, in his letter to the North University, highlights the importance of their decisions underpinning the needs of other sectors. This discussion – regardless of the outcome – should have no doubt that we are still going to have an emergency hospital in Namsos, we need that. Then we are constantly working towards health regions to ensure that they work according to what is also government policy, namely that the major hospitals depend on the small hospitals. This means that the major hospitals must also be willing to give up tasks to support the existence and basis of the smaller hospitals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1037	Then we go to the next question, question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1045	‘The planning of a new hospital structure on the Helgeland coast is based on a disputed report from an external resource group. In an alert from the trustees, it appears that 17 meetings were held between the resource group and two persons in the hospital management – where employee representatives were not involved, and where the minutes were first published monthly thereafter. It is unclear who appointed the resource group, and trustees were not involved in the appointment. Does the Council of State believe that this has been a reliable process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1052	Planning and investigating the new hospital structure in Helgeland has been going on for many years, and I referred in a previous question to the background and the start of the process. In order to obtain an external assessment and input, the Management Board of the Helgelands Hospital decided to set up an external resource group in 2018. The Management Board of the Helgeland Hospital adopted a mandate and was involved in the process of the composition of the resource group. On the board of directors there are four employees. The external resource group should use its experience, professional knowledge and competence and provide advice based on relevant information from previous phases of the project, from other relevant projects and from the National Health and Hospital Plan. Health Nord reports that there has been a meeting between the external resource group and the Helgeland Hospital, but the content of the work of the resource group has not been the subject of meetings. Health Nord states that the Helgelands Hospital has not had any insight into or ability to influence the work or conclusions of the resource group before they were presented in the preliminary report on 3 December 2018. The work of the Resource Group has been in consultation for the period from 3 December 2018 to 1 March 2019. Over 100 responses were received from different hearing bodies. On 19 March 2019, the Resource Group delivered its final suspension after having reviewed the hearing replies. It maintained the previous recommendation to build a joint emergency hospital for Helgeland, located to the largest city – Mo i Rana. It's hers from one of the members of the group, who instead recommends localization in Lake Sandness. The recommendation from the external resource group is one of several elements that form part of the decision-making basis for the Chief Executive’s recommendation to the Management Board of the Helgelands Hospital. No decisions are made. There must be good processes in the future. The next milestone is the board meeting in the Helgelands Hospital in October/November. The matter shall then be dealt with on the Board of Health North and, where appropriate, on my table. No decision has yet been taken on the future hospital structure in Helgeland. Work to ensure a good and broad decision-making base forms part of a phase in which a societal analysis of the changed hospital structure is to be carried out in a long-term perspective. The government, of course, follows closely the discussions and is concerned that there will be a solution that is in the best interests of Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1067	I notice that the Council of State believes that 17 meetings between an external resource group and two specific people in the lease should not have had any significance for the content of what they are working on. It does not buy me. We know that 20 trustees at the hospitals in Lake Mosjön and Sandnessjøen have provided a warning that they refer to very specific examples that trust leaders have been excluded from meeting and are not involved in decisions. They point out that this is a breach of the main agreement for the process now taking place in the future with the Helgelands Hospital 2025, which has seen the requirement to add to processes that make major changes to the enterprise. Trustees now require the process to be stopped until they are given real influence. My question is whether the Minister of Health will listen to those who have confidence and stop the process. Or is he satisfied with the way this process has gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1076	Firstly, the representative cannot give me opinions that I have not expressed. I referred to information from Health Nord. I did not express my assessments of this. Secondly, the alerts to which the representative refers are handled in line with the legislation of Health Nord. Thirdly, employees are represented on the board of the Helgelands Hospital with four employees. The board of directors of the Helgelands Hospital is now leading this process until the Governing Board meeting scheduled for the month-end of October/November. It is from where this process must now be managed, and then I have to decide on the conclusions and assess the quality of them at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1085	My question goes to the Minister of Health and owes his assessments of this process. I do not ask for the health care provider's assessments, because I know them. Now we also know that the district manager of emergency medicine and surgery in Lake Sandness has alerts. He has even resigned his position in protest against a process that he cannot trust anymore. I thought it should worry the Minister of Health. The head of the division also tells us that he's been alerting internally for years without any consequence, and we know that the new groups that are going to figure out new themes are going to be responsible for being wrongly composed and led by people who have a self-interest or a special view of what the result is going to be. My question now is this: Is the outcome decided in advance? And I have to ask again, does the Minister of Health do well to ensure that hospital planning takes place that way? Is the process a cause for concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1094	The reason I reacted was that the representative said that ‘the Council of State is mine’ – and I have not stated that. I just referred to what Health Nord has informed us about, and I'm worried if the representative starts repeating that what I said in that area was my opinion – because that's not the case. My assessment of the process comes when a conclusion has been reached — whether the basis for the conclusion is good enough. We're not there yet. This means that it is not pre-defined in this case, because the boards of the Helgelands Hospital and Health Nord here conclude by recommending significant changes to the hospital structure in Helgeland, it will be a matter for the business meeting. I have no conclusion on this matter. So definitely no, there's no pre-conclusion here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1104	«Specialist Health Service Act § 1 states that the population must have equivalent health services. In the process of planning the future hospital structure on the Helgeland coast, the external resource group has recommended a structure whereby the population of Brønnøysund will have four hours of travel to the hospital in the summer. This does not provide equivalent services in practice. Will the Council of State change the mandate of Health Nord RHF, so that a hospital structure with two full hospitals can be investigated on the Helgeland coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1111	It is challenging to find the best possible hospital structure for Helgeland, which has a small population spread across a large area. Helgeland now has three emergency hospitals, but there is no emergency hospital in Brønnøysund. A central theme in all the options discussed is the building of a district medical centre in Brønnøysund, so that the population of Brønnøysund gets more close to specialised health services than they have today. The purpose of the work on the new hospital structure in Helgeland is to develop a safe and equivalent hospital provision for the population in the future, with good quality of service. The recommendation of the external resource group is only one of several elements which form part of the case base of the Executive Director when preparing a recommendation to the board of the Helgelands Hospital. The board has also asked for further assessment of a number of different issues that have been highlighted by the management seminars and investigations in winter and spring 2019. In addition, it has been decided to carry out a societal analysis of the changed hospital structure in a longer-term perspective, and this work provides a broad opportunity to influence and to ensure the best possible decision-making basis. Municipalities and county councils are invited to make recordings of themes that the social analysis should shed light on. Health Nord states that a collective trade union environment will have one hospital in Helgeland, but in the mandate from Health Nord, it is decided that a two-sick house model should also be investigated, in addition to the 0 option, which is a continuation of today's structure. For all options, the developed district medical centre has just been adopted in Brønnøysund, taking into account the distances of specialist health services currently available. There will be a good opportunity for further involvement of the community, employees, trustees and politicians in the further work on setting up a future hospital structure for Helgeland. There are no conclusions made, either by the board of the Helgelands Hospital, by the board of Health Nord or by me as a business meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1124	The Council of State does not answer the question. Governments know very well that the Health Nord Board in September 2016 asked to investigate the following hospital structures on the weekend coast: One is the 0 option, which has been with all the time. The second is a major emergency hospital. The third is a large emergency hospital and one emergency hospital. None of the three options means that one should look at two full hospitals. A full hospital requires emergency medicine, emergency surgery, x-ray, laboratory, anaesthesia and maternity. I repeat the question: will the Council of State, as the Prime Minister has just spoken about in the oral question procedure, proceed with two full hospitals in the further work – thus changing the mandate that Health Nord has given to the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1131	Now the term ‘complete hospital’ is a term that may have to be the representative of Lundtigen. It's not an official term for a hospital. And the two-sickness model is something that also needs to be investigated, in addition to the 0 option, and then one of course has to relate to the different hospital models that are also described in the National Health and Hospital Plan, adopted by the Stortinget. This is why a two-sickness model will also be investigated, in addition to the 0 option and having one large, combined emergency hospital in Helgeland, combined with a more decentralised specialist health service than you have today, among others. in Brønnøysund.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1136	I agree that the terms here have gradually become complicated, but I have learned them. What is in the mandate is a major emergency hospital and an emergency hospital. Governments know very well that there is a difference between a large emergency hospital and an emergency hospital. What I'm talking about is a major emergency hospital and another major emergency hospital, which means emergency medicine, emergency surgery, x-ray, laboratory, anaesthesia and maternity. Will the Council of State investigate it? The alternative is that here will be, for example, birthing could receive four hours of maternity leave, which is longer than the previous report by the representative of Battle Violence Vedum. He said from Oslo to Otta. No, it's not from Oslo to Ottawa – it's from Oslo to Dombås, what can happen now if the Council of State does not intervene and give the mandate to have two major emergency hospitals investigated, along with the 0 option to be investigated under the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1141	Yes, ‘acute hospitals’ and ‘large emergency hospitals’ are concepts according to national health and hospital plans, and both types of hospitals are full hospitals. It is clearly not a population base in Helgeland for two major emergency hospitals, and therefore it is not in Helgeland today either. What is needed is the three options that are now being explored. In addition, all of these three options will involve a more decentralised specialist healthcare service, including: through a district medical centre in Brønnøysund.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1149	This question, from Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1154	‘Bosnia, who were over 27 years old when they arrived in Norway in 1993, have pension rights other than other asylum seekers/refugees in Norway. They had a collective residence, not on an individual basis. As a result, they did not receive the same pension rights as other asylum seekers/refugees, which are currently affecting several Bosnians when they are retired. Will the Council of State address this injustice and consider measures to ensure that this applies to Bosnians receive a fair pension?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1161	On behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I would like to reply that in the 1990s, Norway already chose to give Bosnians a group stay after a collective assessment because there were acts of war in their country of origin. However, the individual was then informed that the basis of residence had an impact on social security rights. Individuals were therefore also informed of the possibility of applying for an individual residence, which could give a more favourable status in terms of social security benefits. However, there is reason to recall that these specific provisions only guarantee the right to a full minimum level of pensions without a curtailment in the absence of a social security period. Those who came to Norway from Bosnia-Herzegovina have already been here long enough to meet the entry-level conditions of three years of social security, and they will have a significant self-earning of social security, which ensures that the minimum pension rate – 1/40th for each year they have been a member of the social security system. I would like to mention that Bosnian immigrants and their Norwegian-born children are described in a report from the SSB 2016 as the integration winners. They actively participate in the labour market regardless of sex, and the proportion of high-level education is actually slightly higher than that of the entire Norwegian population. This means that as a group they have been and are able to earn pension entitlements in addition to the minimum level of pension granted to persons with refugee status. If a person who has received collective protection has not earned the right to a full minimum pension because of a lack of social security, he is in the same legal position as other immigration groups and also Norwegian citizens who have stayed for a long time abroad. I would like to take the opportunity to mention that in the preparatory work on the introduction of specific provisions in the population's backlog in 1971, it was stated that refugees are not a homogeneous group. It was mentioned that some people would or could be granted social security rights in other countries as well. Those who have earned a pension in their home country may be paid in Norway under bilateral agreements. In any case, those who have not earned entitlement equivalent to benefits from the minimum pension level may receive supplementary benefits which ensure an overall benefit at the level of the minimum pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1174	I would like to thank you for your answer. In Agder there are many Bosnians. This is a relationship that has occupied many, and several have contacted Arbeiderpartit teams, both in Lvgal and in Kvinesdal. They have been involved in this issue, because it is perceived as unfair that it affects the older group of Bosnians in particular. As the Council of State says, this is a group that is largely well integrated, and has been major contributors to Norwegian society. However, I would like to ask the Council of State with its answer, as I experience it, confirm that the government will not take any initiative towards the Bosnian groups. Nasiha Haramba of the Bosnian Women's Association has taken this up in Utrop in 2019, and Refika Suvalic brought it up in Dagbladet last year. Will the government not take any initiative towards the Bosnian group to have a discussion about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1183	Now I can't answer if the responsible state council has had or plans to have meetings on this topic with the people involved, but the answer is, this was a matter that the individual was made aware of when one had the opportunity to receive collective protection. An individual assessment could also be chosen at that time, and it was informed that this could have an impact on social security rights. We have this special arrangement for those with refugee status. It's a system we've established. Adjusting e.g. the rights of that group will trigger discussion of others, which will experience it as unfair, for example: Norwegian nationals who have resided for a long time abroad, who will not receive the same rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1190	Thank you for that. It is true that information was provided that it was an individual assessment. Many Bosnians report back that in the information flood that came, many did not get this. My question, however, is whether the Council of State will communicate to the Council of State responsible for this, and ask that an initiative be taken towards the Bosnian association, so that these matters are discussed, and that there is information on this issue that they are allowed to take part in. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there may be other consequences, but I think it's important that the state and the government take an initiative to discuss it, so that it becomes a unified understanding of what is actually going on, how it can possibly be solved, and what costs or costs it has for other groups of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1197	I have had conversations with the responsible State Council on this issue in advance of the Questionnaire, and she is very aware of the issue. Even if I answer, that does not mean that the responsible State Council has not brought the question and the issue, but I cannot now, from the Stockholm Chair, answer on her behalf about the further follow-up of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1211	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1224	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1236	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1250	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1264	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1278	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1286	This question, from the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, will be raised by the representative of Eirik Faret Sakariassen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1291	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘‘That the University of Stavanger shall be treated in the same way as the other universities in terms of funding. There is no room for discrimination on the part of the UiS.’ This said the current Minister of Research and Higher Education in Stavanger Aftenblad in 2013. Can the Council of States confirm that she will ensure that the UiS is treated in a non-discriminatory manner with the other universities in terms of funding, and what has been done?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1300	The Ministry of Knowledge uses framework financing as one of the governance tools for universities and higher education institutions with State funding. The framework allocation consists of basic funds and performance-based disbursements and supports institutions' economies by enabling institutions to determine their own priority activities and areas within their profile. The basic funds are largely historically contingent and reflect priorities from governments and accumulation from the establishment of institutions back to 1811 until today. The baselines reflect factors such as: subject and study portfolio, construction and infrastructure and specific national efforts and tasks. The result-based exclusion is based on a common national funding system that is essentially the same for all institutions. For the sector as a whole, the basic funds constitute 67 pst. of the framework appropriations in 2019, while the results-based statement is 33 pst. The University of Stavanger has a basic appropriation of 69 pst. and thus is slightly higher than the average for the sector. Since 2013, when I was elected to Stortinget, there have been investments in new study places and recruitment positions in several budgetary agreements with the Left as a budgetary partner. In addition, the University of Stavanger’s good results have ensured that they have had the highest real growth among state universities and colleges. The real growth rate for UiS has been 30 pst., while the average in the sector has been 12 pst. during the same period. Much of the growth is due to the fact that in the period 2014–2019, UiS has received funding for increased annual admissions to 442 new study places and 117 recruitment positions. This was a deliberate priority in budgetary negotiations to correct some of the historically contingent bias on the basis. In addition, the university has had a nominal growth in performance-based counting in the financing system of 179 million. kr since 2013. It's 55,4 pst. versus 47.7 pst. in the sector as a whole. In 2019, UiS has a budget of 1.6 billion. kr. Since the introduction of the performance-based funding system in 2002, the sector has changed. The new universities and many of the higher education institutions have invested in a capacity increase in the production of credits to finance master's and doctoral programmes, which have produced good results in what is the result-based funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1311	I am absolutely sure that the Council of State and I are equally happy about the good results of our both local universities. But the core here is that the council has made some promises, and not even been alone about it. Bent Höie, Solvency Horne, Olaug V. Bollestad and Iselin Nybø promised in 2013 that they would ‘change the funding system for the university and higher education sectors so that the University of Stavanger will receive equivalent funding with the other universities’. So you've had the opportunity to do exactly what you promised. Then the simple question is, Why has it not been done?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1316	It is quite correct, as the representative says, that the University of Stavanger was one of the things I went to vote on when I was elected to the Stortinget in 2013. I spent a lot of the last big time fighting for what was my constituency university, and it's a job that I'm very proud to have done, and that's got a big impact on the University of Stavanger. As I referred to in the previous answer, the University of Stavanger has had a significant growth from 2013 until today. To compare with when SV had State Council in the Ministry of Knowledge: In the eight years, the University of Stavanger received 363 study places. So far, under the blue-green, it's been assigned 442 places of study. The red-greens gave 38 recruitment positions in eight years, while with the Left in the head along with the rest of the government parties they have given 117.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1323	The promise was very clear, and when these four parties joined together, there was a local expectation that one would fulfill it, especially when one had a majority. Because it costs as much to train a nurse in Stavanger as in Trondheim, it costs as much to train a lecturer in Kristiansand as in Bergen, and it costs as much to train someone in life sciences at North University as in Oslo. Nevertheless, the so-called old universities have a better funding than the so-called new ones. Is the Council satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1328	There's a difference in the funding that the different universities have, and as I said, it's because of the priorities that previous magnification and former governments have done since we started up with universities. We had a round in the previous magnification period where we agreed on a financing system. That system of financing is essentially constant in this period as well. What has been important to me, and which has been important to the University of Stavanger, is that the parties that are now behind the majority have shown a will and an ability to strengthen that university. And not just a little bit: there have been significant reinforcements by the University of Stavanger with these government parties, and I know that the University of Stavanger is aware of that, and that they have greatly appreciated it. Not least, the recruitment positions they have been given have been of great importance. And it's not just for the university it matters. It means something to our entire region, to our county and to our country, that we have a strong and good university in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1336	‘20. In February, the Council of State in the Questionnaire said: ‘To cooperate with the United Kingdom, we shall do — whether it becomes a hard breeze or an agreement.’ In March, the Council of State in the British Isles was to get more information on what measures we should consider further. Towards the end of Easter, the Norwegian Council of State warned Norwegian students against applying to the United Kingdom. Have there been and are negotiations on student exchanges in order to ensure conditions and scholarships between our two countries, similar to those we have under the Erasmus+ programme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1343	Until the end of the Passover, there was considerable uncertainty about the possibility of travelling to the United Kingdom on exchange through the Erasmus+ programme in the autumn of 2019. There is extensive work in all departments related to Brexit, and as part of this process, I have been in dialogue with the British ambassador and my colleague of ministers in the United Kingdom to ensure that we have up-to-date information. On 25 April, we received information from both the European Commission and the United Kingdom that the preparedness regulation adopted by the EU before 29 March will also apply to the autumn of 2019. Therefore, anyone who has started Erasmus+ exchange to or from the United Kingdom before 31 October 2019 may carry out the exchange maintenance under the same conditions as before. They will receive Erasmus grants and will be able to complete their stay even if the United Kingdom leaves the EU without agreement on 31 October. This means that Norwegian students who have been thinking about the United Kingdom in the autumn of 2019 with Erasmus+ can now travel safely, and we have changed our warning at that point. Unfortunately, due to the flexible postponement of the United Kingdom to 31 October, it is still too early to say something about the need for any bilateral agreement at national level. The United Kingdom will continue to be associated with the education programme after its retirement. It is therefore not currently appropriate to formally negotiate an alternative agreement or programme for student exchanges between Norway and the United Kingdom. However, in my meetings with the British authorities, it has been made clear that if the United Kingdom is leaving the Erasmus+ programme and an agreement is necessary to ensure continued training cooperation, that is what we want. The British, for their part, have made it clear that they also want exchanges from Norway. Such a situation is now, it is clear that the main measure to ensure continued student exchanges with the United Kingdom is the establishment of several agreements at institutional level between higher education institutions in Norway and the United Kingdom. My visit to London in March made it clear that several British universities are now actively working with other European universities in order to ensure continued student exchange without school money requirements. King’s College and the University of Oslo are an example of two who have already concluded such an agreement. We are actively working towards and with the British authorities, and I have agreed to talk to the British Minister again before the summer. The focus of the conversation from my side will be on student exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1356	All credit to the institutions that work to establish agreements, but for over three years it has been known that the British will leave the EU. The Erasmus+ exchange programme may be affected, but the UK Government has ensured the economic basis up to 2020. The central party believes this shows that the government’s warnings were unfounded. Instead of frightening the students, the Council of State could take the initiative in an offensive attitude and said that it would solve this by sitting down with the British. Instead, there was a scareshoot. Neither British universities nor ANSA, which is the organisation of Norwegian students abroad, notice any real fear or threat of exchange to the United Kingdom from Norway. Will the Council of State say that the fear of exchange with the United Kingdom was exaggerated and that once the government takes initiative, it opens up better opportunities for exchange and agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1363	When we talk about exchange, it's important to remember that the vast majority of students who travel to the United Kingdom take their entire degree in the United Kingdom. There is a small proportion of Norwegian students in the United Kingdom who are in exchange. Erasmus+ students account for approx. 350 students per year and a small proportion of all Norwegian students in the United Kingdom. We've been all the time concerned with having up-to-date information, and that's what we've been dealing with. Uncertainty has been very much linked to the Erasmus+ programme and the United Kingdom's link to it if it becomes a hard brexit. That's the information we've been dealing with. When it was changed, we also went out and changed our advice. We want the students to make a decision on a free basis, but with the best available information. That's what we've taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1370	Uncertainty about information is also a signal. Professor Tonning and First Amanunensis Guldal of the Norwegian Study Centre in the United Kingdom wrote in Khrono that at British universities it is ‘business as usual’, regardless of Brexit. They think that played out the alarmed many students unnecessarily. Cooperation on education is quite common. Switzerland, the United States and China have, for example, close cooperation with the United Kingdom without being part of the Erasmus programme. However, they have jointly worked out their own exchange agreements with the United Kingdom to enable students to study and work in the United Kingdom and vice versa. The United States has the Fulbright programme, which includes, among others: Norway is involved, and several educational institutions in China have similar cooperation in Norway — to provide some examples. In the number of students in Norway, in the United Kingdom and vice versa, this cooperation is considerably smaller. What initiatives will the State Council take to ensure Norwegian students in the United Kingdom at least as well as conditions from the start of the autumn study and the continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1379	As I said in my previous post, it is important to remember that there are many Norwegian students there who are not on the Erasmus+ programme and who will be affected to a very small extent. But it's clear that brexit comes with some consequences. Brexit is, has been and will continue to be unwieldy and difficult to deal with when it comes to providing safe information. That's the back of the brexit, that's what we're up to right now, and that's what students need to know about. I believe that we have not been unduly concerned. I think we've given students the best up-to-date information they can have to make a decision whether or not they want to apply for an Erasmus programme for the autumn. I am concerned that we are still sending Norwegian students to the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is one of the countries most Norwegian students travel to. They speak English there, it's short distance, and we have a historical connection to the country. It will also be important in the future that we have good contact at both institutional and government level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1386	Then we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1394	This question, from the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud, is answered by the Minister of Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Immigration, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1399	‘Arendal prison, Håvet department, was closed in March 2019 following a decision of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare [[KDI]] Does the Council of State now feel that it has control and overview of the need for settlement sites?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1406	The government has given priority to reducing the pay queue. When the government took over, the queue was 1,200 judges, while at the turn of the year 2018/2019 it was reduced to about 140 judges. By 2020, 300 new prison sites in Agder will be ready for use. This is an important boost to criminal justice. The government has also improved the quality of the compensation, including the following: through the use of foot-link zone for those with a judgment of up to four months or having a zone remaining for up to four months. Penalty enforcement with electronic control is a good contribution to the repatriation of sentences to a non-crime life because it allows them to retain housing and work. The agreement on the rental of Norwayrhaven prison was concluded in 2018, and the need for high-level prisons is met by duplication until the new Agder prison is clear in just over a year. Despite the conclusion of the agreement, predictions from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare suggest an overcapacity of about 250 prison sites. The reason for this is, among other things, increased use of electronic control has helped to reduce the need for lower security prisons. In line with the directorate’s recommendation, it was decided, in the context of the 2019 budget, to reduce real overcapacity and space. Due to the reduced need for places with lower safety levels, it was also decided that the sites of Arendal Prison, Håvet, which had already been adopted in connection with the establishment of a new prison in Agder, should be closed before the new prison was completed. The Ministry of Justice and Security has provided the overall leadership for decommissioning by deciding to decommission these detention centres during 2019. The concrete time and process of closure is up to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, the KDI. I am aware that the KDI has decided, as the representative pointed out in the question, that a small department of Arendal Prison, Department of the Court, with 13 seats, will be kept open a little longer, but also that department will be finally closed before summer according to the directorate. We see that there has been an increase in the pay queues in the last few months, and the queue is now approx. 530 Judges. It is natural that the solstice may increase slightly for a period of time while the closures are being carried out. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare has reported on some challenges in collecting the stay of accruals prior to the closures and that this has resulted in a period of slightly lower capacity utilisation. Capacity utilisation is now back on about 90 pst., and the director expects the queue to be reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1421	Both solitude with electronic control, EK, and the locations in Arendal are well approved and predictable. I am a little surprised that the Council of State here says that the doubling sites will be used, when we know that the funds set aside for doubling the budget for 2019 have actually gone to the conversion money – which, on the other hand, was not in place in 2019. We also know that the police are getting into more and more serious things, many things in the area of violence in close relationships and morals, which we know will eventually mean that we have a great need for the open places as well. When one obviously does not have an overview of these fluctuations in the pay queues, does the right-wing government and the Council of State still believe that it was a good idea to put down all these open prisons that were closed in the context of the 2019 budget? So I'm not just talking about them at the Håvet department.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1428	It is true, as the representative says, that there has been a slight increase in the number of judges in the past, at the beginning of 2019, but the queue has been relatively stable in recent times. 250 prison sites have been closed in a relatively short period of time. It's giving you some logistics challenges. It also seems that this process has provided somewhat lower coatings for some of the units, but based on the information we have from the directorate, we are confident that the queue will also be reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1433	Thanks for the answer. It is okay that the Council of State refers to the Directorate, but it must be expected that the members of the government will be more able to raise their eyes, see the whole chain of criminal proceedings as a whole and see that we are going to have a great deal of pressure on the prison capacity even in the open prisons when the cases that are now with the police come through. In connection with the closure of the Håvet – let me get back to it – it was such that furniture was moved back and forth and spent quite a lot of money irrationally in a very stressed sector. But the worst of all is perhaps the involuntaryness faced by employees by losing their jobs – not having any means of conversion – and then going back again. Expecting the employees to be on standby under such a swing from the government, I do not think that is proper. Does the Council of State consider this to be sound to its employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1440	Now I answer on behalf of the Minister of Justice, but I feel sure that he is familiar with both the concerns of the employees and the financial situation in criminal matters. This with parking lots has been an important matter for this government, and it is also on the basis of the fact that it has been lifted, that we have managed to reduce the pay queue from over 1,200 judges when the Solberg government took over, to approx. 140 judges today. This is something that we have been aware of, and that we are aware of. I am also sure that the Minister of Justice is well aware of the challenges that criminal services face, and that this is something he has to pay attention to in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1445	So we go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1453	‘A particular challenge for North University with a high level of dissemination in study places is to have a study site structure that supports a research and education strategy as well as a peripheral zone policy. Governments have asked Nord University to decide on a new location structure and a comprehensive campus development plan. Does the Council of State have confidence in the Governing Council's assessments, or will the Council of State instruct Nord University to maintain the proposed places of study?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1460	It follows from the development agreement concluded between the Ministry and Nord universitet that the university should decide on a new location structure. It is an agreement concluded following a dialogue between the Ministry and the University. The principal and the administration have developed a proposal for a new study location structure, which is well known to the representative. The proposal involves significant changes, and it has created a debate – a major debate, I would say. Last week, the board of directors of the university discussed the further process. The Management Board has decided to consult the proposal of the Vice-Chancellor and the Administrative Board and to carry out further assessments and analyses before taking the decision. Among other things, the Board of Directors called for: ‘a thorough analysis of the need to train public sector and working life candidates in and for the different regions. Impacts that change in study site structure may have on other parts of working and social life need to be highlighted and evaluated. Student housing must be included in this.» North University has set up an open process in which everyone can make their hearings. I take it for granted that both the administration and the board will make a thorough assessment of the recordings that are coming. I think it made sense for the board to ask for further assessments and analyses. I trust the board and the process that the board has set up. The Management Board has not yet made the final assessments or made any decisions. I can therefore not say anything about how I look at the Board's assessments or decisions on a new study structure at this time. Prior to last week's board meeting, I sent a letter, which I also assume the representative is familiar with, to the board of directors at the university, where I referred to the many balances that they should take into account in the future. As a government council and owner, I am concerned that universities should assess how best to provide high-quality education and research, but also be able to deliver candidates such as business and employment in the region they claim, demand. For me, it's important that they manage to have two thoughts in their head at once, that they can do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1478	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Council of State has confidence in the Board of Directors at the institution. Last week, however, the Stable Representative André N. Skkelstad was quoted both in Namdalsavias, in the Address Paper and on the website Khrono: «I have a clear message from our State Council – the University of Namsos shall remain and be further developed.» Then my question becomes: When did the Council of State make this decision, and how has it been communicated to the Nordic University?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1488	I haven't spoken to André N. Skelstad since the demonstration in Namsos, so I can't comment on what he said. I will assume that it is his interpretation of the letter I have sent. My dialogue with the board in the matter has so far been this letter, which came out to the public shortly after it was sent. It was sent before their board meeting. Personally, I have not been in contact with the board in addition to that letter, so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1493	This is alarming. I understand that the Council of State says that the magnificence representative quoted in the media – we have to assume that he is correctly quoted – does not have coverage for the statement he has made. The Council of State has repeatedly referred to the letter sent. There are some questions about how we govern, and how the government that owns governs the institution we talk about. It is done by a letter of assignment, which is also attached to a development agreement, to which the Council of State itself referred and which is designed in dialogue with the institution. Furthermore, it is the standard – it has also been agreed for this year, as far as I have been able to bring it about – with a governance dialogue meeting in June. Nevertheless, in a rather demanding political situation and in a heated debate, in order to use the Council of State's own words, the Council of State chooses to send an additional letter on the same day as the Board of Directors will deal with a matter. What was the background for that? What is the point of the letter that is new, and which was not already in the direction of the institution's work? And what makes the council think that she had to remind the board of directors about it? She didn't think the board was able to remember that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1502	Firstly, I have to comment on the interpretation of my answer by the representative Sivertsen. He is, of course, free to interpret what he wants, but I think he is drawing the interpretation too far. What I said was that I assumed that André N. Skkelstad had spoken after reading the letter, and that it was his interpretation of that letter. Of course, with regard to the governance dialogue with our universities, we have regular contacts with the universities of the department. The reason why I chose to send this letter, which is not something I use to do in front of each board meeting, was that I felt that the principal had presented a report that put great emphasis on how to improve the quality of education and research at Nord University, but that had not taken equal account of the other part of the community mission, which is about delivering candidates to the working life and the business to which the university refers. I wanted to remind the board that they also had to take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1518	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Then your case no. 2 finished handles.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-08.ana.ud164e1534	There is no record available. Thus, the map for today is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
