ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e88	It called the Deputy Representative of the Nordland County, Kjell-Idar Juvik, takes no seat. Four permit applications are filed: by the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Geir Adelsten Iversen from 12 June onwards and until further notice by the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen in the days of 13 and 14 June on the leave of the representative Petter Eide to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris on 13 and 14 June, by the Working Party on the Permit of the Representative Espen Barth Eide on Days 13 and 14 June to attend the Governing Board meeting of the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue in Geneva These applications are proposed to be dealt with immediately and are accepted. - It's a note. From the first alternate of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the representative Petter Eide's leave because of parental leave. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Nancy P. Anti For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai and Marian Hussein For the Province of Rogaland: Julia Wong
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e158	Nancy P. Anti is present and wants to take a seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform us that today's meeting is continuing beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e179	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e192	The issue we are dealing with now concerns the approval of the cost framework for eight new investment projects in the Defence and some briefings. First, I would like to look at the case-rapporteur's hat, thank the Committee for good cooperation and then look at the projects involved. Eight new radars shall be acquired for military airspace surveillance to replace, on the one hand, old radars and, on the other hand, to be placed in new locations because the threats in the airspace have changed over time. Military airspace monitoring is part of NATO strategic air surveillance. Two of the new radars will be movable. It is an acquisition necessary because of the old age of existing material, and therefore an increasing maintenance and repair needs. This shall require a defence-industrial cooperation agreement with the supplier before the contract is signed. The next investment project is about cryptography. We can basically be proud that Norway has so far been so advanced in the development of crypto-solutions as we have been. Our technology has been exported to NATO and to other allied countries, but where we are now, however, new solutions are needed. In a few years, most people believe that quantum computers will be a reality, and that means a completely different threat picture. I would like to stress that the entire committee is committed to this being an area in which we are to have national control and competence, and we agree that the purchase of new high-grade crypto-solutions is carried out as a direct acquisition by a Norwegian industrial partner. The proposal also includes investment projects on Evenes — one to support operations on the new maritime patrol aircraft and one related to the fighter aircraft, among others. the upgrade of four fighter aircraft hangars. The decision to establish Evenes as an advanced operating base for F-35 and the subsequent decision to base Evenes on the MPAs was taken by a broad majority. There is also a broad majority behind the recommendation that the Storting authorises the launch of these two investment projects. At the same time, and I would like to stress this, it is impossible not to get into the many and long rounds we have had around the numerical basis of these decisions, and not least about space needs and what future investment needs it will trigger. One aspect that has emerged in the last days related to the MPAs and the construction of new hangars, and which in turn creates unrest, is a letter from Avinor to Defence Building on 8 May asking that the hangar not be built where it is planned, because it will lead to unacceptable high turbulence in the approach phase for both military and civil aviation. I would ask the Minister of Defence to comment on this enquiry from Avinor in his post in the Chamber, because we need clarity as to whether this will lead to changes in the construction plans and whether there will be cost implications. I would like to stress that when Stortinget joins this construction project, it is assuming that the cost framework is real and that the operational assumptions underlying the suitability of Evenes to accept the MPAs are still fully present. I repeat: it is necessary for the Minister of Defence to respond to this in the Chamber today, because it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that when decisions in the Grand Duchy are followed up, it does so in line with the Storting's assumptions. So to the submarines: in the prototype there are some investments related to the submarine acquisition and the maintenance capacity, and they're behind them. However, we also ask that the overall cost picture of EBA investment in the new submarines be clarified as quickly as possible. More generally related to the submarines, I would also say that there is some concern when it is reported in various international media that there is still uncertainty about whether Germany will ultimately give priority to the Marine and the acquisition of new submarines in its defence budgets. It is possible that we will not be given any clarification in the Bundestag until 2020, and it would be useful to hear the Minister of Defence's assessment of the situation. I hope that he also gets into this in his article. In any case, it is important for the Council of State to note that there is a unanimous committee that writes in the vote that we assume that Germany will conclude a contract on two submarines at the same time as we conclude a contract on our four, and that there will be parallel agreements on industrial cooperation. The other investments and orientations are well explained in both the proposition and the position, and there is no need for me to go into them very carefully from the pulpit. I briefly mention that there is a need to upgrade equipment sheds on Haacon protection due to damage and wear on the plant and two EBA projects in the Orland: adaptation of the Haarberg School and construction of a new sports hall to improve welfare facilities and a utility building that brings together the overall supply activities of the Aviation Station. The Committee also sees, like the government, that it takes time to clarify the need for EBA for internal Troms personnel and supports the maintenance of the crew briefings until further notice. The Committee also endorses the assessments carried out around the organisation of defence operations in the cyber domain. With regard to the information on the cost picture of the fighting aircraft base in Orland related to noise abatement measures and the establishment of a new sheltered hangar solution, the Minister of Defence should note that there is a unanimous committee that underlines the need to rapidly reduce remaining uncertainty about the project and that advises that the Storting should be kept continuously informed of cost developments. Now I take the case rapporteur's hat off and talk on behalf of the Workers' Party. Although the overall cost picture of the acquisition of fighter aircraft is not a theme for this proposition, it is nevertheless natural to address the concern that has spread, after it appears that the Stortinget has not been made properly aware of the evolution of costs, both for the fighter aircraft program itself and for the bases. It has now become a matter that the Control Committee has taken up, and we will see what comes out of it. Of course, the reason I'm taking it up here, in a debate about investment in the defence, is the danger that cost developments will go beyond other necessary investments in the defence. I would like to stress that the uncertainty provision is intended to be just that, an uncertainty provision, but there is no actual provision of funds, and there is an open question as to whether the use of the uncertainty provision should be covered by the Defense itself, over their ordinary budgets, or whether there must be an increase, an additional allocation, as the Storting has already decided. Therefore, it is not irrelevant information for Stortinget to know that it is unlikely that the governance objective will be achieved. On the contrary, it is very relevant and it is easy to suspect that the Council of State chose not to inform the Storting about this in the context of the budgetary procedure in order to avoid unpleasant questions. In that case, it's anything but fine. Another F-35-related issue I would also like to raise from the Chair is the issue of the Norwegian Industrial Participation Grant Scheme in the F-35 programme. A large majority have asked the government on several occasions to consider resuming this grant scheme, and we cannot see that anything has happened. In February, it was announced that the Norwegian defence industry has been given a European responsibility for component maintenance for several technology groups linked to the F-35 cooperation, and that is, of course, very joyful. However, the award of a contract naturally requires companies to be able to meet some cost and delivery time requirements, which in turn require and require some risky investments. We are concerned about the signals we get that Norwegian industry – and in particular the small and medium-sized enterprises that the government has also been involved in – will not be able to meet the requirements without triggering risk-absorbing measures at an initial stage. That is why we repeat once again the request that the government resume the subsidy scheme for participation of Norwegian industrial operators in the F-35 programme. In conclusion, I would like to mention a matter which is not mentioned at all in the proposal, but which we must address when the Stortinget has a debate on investment in the Defence. It's about the precarious situation we have around the Army and its access to tanks. When we dealt with the land force proposition, it was decided that a new, modern tank capacity should be acquired for the Army, and that is the Stortinge in broad agreement. It will be in place at the earliest in 2025, it was then said. Now there's a lot of evidence that it could be even later. At the same time, the planned upgrade of Leo 2A4 was stopped. In order to ensure the fastest possible upgrade of the tank capacity, a unanimous committee decided to ask the government to submit a case on the loan or lease of tanks that could be in place from 2019 onwards, i.e. this year. Then came the revision in 2018, and the government informed that it could not be done. Nearly at the same time, defence equipment promoted a generation solution for new tanks. That solution had a cost framework that is now higher than the financial planning framework for the acquisition, and then we were told that there was a need to go for an additional round to find an acceptable solution for the acquisition of new tanks. Now it's a year and a half since the land power proposition was presented, and the uncertainty around when the Army wants a satisfactory tank capacity is greater than ever. In the opposition, we are deeply concerned that Leopard 2A4 vehicles are already in stock for a long time due to difficulties in getting spare parts for such old materials. The Officers' Association says that the number of operational vehicles is already too low to fully set up the Armour Battalion and the Telemark Battalion. Despite this situation, the government has not submitted a plan to ensure a rapid improvement in the tank capacity. When we dealt with the land authority proposition, two of the parties that are now in government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, were involved in writing: ‘The report by the Land Power Proposition on the Battle of the Army shows, on its side, that the government is still unable to take a decision and make concrete proposals, but instead continues to investigate and postpone important decisions to the Land Power.’ Now these two parties have joined the government and no longer agree to that description, but it is still very much valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e229	The investment proposition that we are dealing with today is a follow-up to the long-term plan of defence and the state budget presented in the autumn. It may be natural to recall – in a day like this, when we have state visits from South Korea – that in the previous investment proposition we were dealing with, the Stortinget joined in the acquisition of new artillery, where the first shot will be delivered during the year. This government took over a defence with significant deficiencies. Something had to be done, and the government put forward a long-term plan where the defence was given to 180 billion. kr more over the planning period. The defence budget has actually increased by 30 pst. since 2013, – a total of 16 billion. kr. The proposition we have today to deal with is a proposition to implement absolutely crucial projects for the development of our defence capabilities. The project with new radars is very important and very interesting. These radars in combination with F-35 and air protection are essential to control the Norwegian air territory and to perform the monitoring task on behalf of NATO. If the Naval Defense, the Army and the Air Force are to do their duties, control of airspace is essential – not least to be able to have an overview, make correct decisions and have the right prediction. There is also a project on new crypto-solutions. It is entirely in conflict that the sender has a assurance that the recipient receives the correct information, for example: where artillery is intended to be used, by means of a target indication. It is also essential that this competence is in Norwegian hands, and that we have the opportunity to develop it ourselves. Then there are actually six new EBA projects, which are strategic EBA, that need to be in place in order for us to be able to take the new surveillance planes, new submarines and new fighter aircraft into service. The sum of this actually amounts to $5.5 billion. kr only on the EBA page. NATO countries often need to reach 2 pst. of gross domestic product in its defence budgets. It is an important measure, but a measure that is equally important and perhaps sub-communicated is that NATO expects the investment of NATO countries to be 20 pst. of gross domestic product. Norway is overcomplying with this requirement by a significant margin, so the investment share in the state budget for 2019 is close to 30 p.m. I notice that the Workers' Party uses this proposition to refer to tanks, even though this proposition is strictly not about tanks. Then I have to remind the Workers' Party that there is a misunderstanding between the stated involvement of the Workers' Party in terms of tanks and what you actually do. In its alternative state budget, the Workers' Party contributed 50 million. NOK for new tanks, in which case you will be bought approx. Half a tank. I would like to remind you of the majority comment on submarine purchase, that in parallel with the conclusion of the submarine contract itself – which will take place in 2019 – there is a expectation from Stortinget that there will also be supplier agreements for the Norwegian supply industry. It is simply a follow-up to the national defence industry strategy that a broad majority of the Stortinget voted behind in 2016. Then I have to say that I read the comment about the Center Party and the SV regarding the contracting of EBA on Evenes, with great interest. So here's what these parts are saying: ‘These members record that the provision for the construction of ports for hangars for maritime patrol aircraft P8A and the groundwork for land at Evene airstation is illuminated. This has been done without delay and before Proposition 60 S is handled in Stortinget.» [[2018–2019]] That note illustrates that these two parties are not entirely at the height of information and knowledge about how to contract EBA projects in the country. If one goes into the basis of competition and reads, it is explicitly stated that the contracting entity reserves the right to cancel the competition if there are factual reasons, such as: in the event of the cancellation of the planned investment or non-approval by the political or military team. The conclusion is that the comments from the Centre Party and SV are not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e255	Today, we are going to approve eight new investment projects. Investment projects are in line with the decisions of the annual government budgets. The Progress Party is pleased that we are now about to start the acquisition of new radars for airspace monitoring. Eight new radars and associated infrastructure shall be acquired. This investment is essential for the maintenance and strengthening of airspace monitoring. With new threats, it is important to have radars that provide a good overview of the situation in our and in the nearby airspace. This proposition does not address the nature of the technology underpinning the acquisition. The radar technology to be chosen is determined by the professional authorities. It is important to select systems that ensure the real military needs and capabilities. The choice of supplier and cooperation partners must take account of military needs. At the same time, it is important that defence-industrial cooperation provides Norwegian actors with good opportunities for technological development. Modernisation of crypto-solutions is necessary due to technological developments and greater need to ensure information against unauthorised access. It is gratifying that Norwegian technology is of such high quality that it is exported to other NATO countries and that this project can continue to lead the field. The choice of Norwegian suppliers is therefore joyous. It is important for Norway that we can help secure allies with Norwegian technology while strengthening Norwegian technological development. The establishment of facilities for P-8A at Evenes comes as a result of the decision to move the capacity, the maritime surveillance aircraft, to Evenes. In this context, the Progress Party would point out that it is important for the development of hangars to take place in line with the needs of the use of Evenes, both for military and civil actors. The upgrade to ensure the QRA readiness is due to the fact that NATO is being moved from Bodø to Evenes on 1 January 2020 in its flight readiness, and is therefore absolutely necessary. Norway, together with Germany, shall acquire identical submarines, which shall be negotiated during 2019. The Progress Party considers that the acquisition of new submarines will require adaptation and modernisation of Haakonsverm maintenance facilities and berths. The Progress Party sees the need to adapt the Hårberg school in Ørland to new sports buildings with several associated facilities. The construction of new supply buildings in Ørland comes as a result of the base establishment and is therefore a necessary part of it. The Progress Party takes note of the detail of the cost evolution of the Fighting Aircraft Base on Ørland and will follow it closely. We see that the termination of the project for the conversion of crew layings on Setermoen to absolution for command and servitude will be re-assessed in the event of a future need for delay. The Progress Party is pleased that the Ministry of Defence will strengthen the defence’s ability to protect against digital threats and to deal with the cyber domain in military operations. The Progress Party is in favour of reducing cyber defence management with staff and support functions to the extent and collectively at Jørstadmoen. The Progress Party is in favour of Norwegian membership of the Cooperative Cyber Defence Center of Excellence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e276	In this proposition, there are several important investment objects, for which the case-speaker has done a good job. There's a big deal about most of it. It is important to underline, because whether it applies to submarines, or to other investments, one needs to have a deal, because we are talking about quite a lot of money, and we are talking about important measures. I would also like to stress that I agree with the representative Marthinsen in her observation of the lack of progress when it concerns the purchase of tanks for the Army. It also has the Center Party's target drills all the way – from the long-term plan being presented until he was attached. Unfortunately, it seems that our gloomy predictions are going to be right. When it comes to fighter aircraft and Ørland, I will praise Bergen's Official Journal and other media that have taken up the costs we see. It is important that the Storting gets the full information about what the status is, and what we can expect in the future, which has also been underlined by several. It may appear that a person is drowsing at the uncertainty deposit. Those of us who have run different departments know that the uncertainty reserve is not going to be added to the construction costs. She's not funded either. Ergo can go beyond, for example. fighting vehicles for the Army or other important investments. I'd like to ask the Minister of Defense to do the right thing for these things. It's important for the Storting to get clarity on it. We don't agree, it's a matter that's been left in the hall here: the location of the new maritime patrol planes. It has been a great debate on this for many years. Now, when we're going to decide about an investment of 1.8 billion. For the construction of maritime patrol aircraft facilities on Evenes, it must be borne in mind that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has sufficient and accurate information when dealing with the matter, that one has all the information on the table, so that one can make the best decision for the country. I don't think we had all that knowledge when the committee dealt with these matters. Last week we received - again through the media - an insight into a document of the newspaper Forward. Written from Avinor to Defense, dated May 8, 2019, and took the risk of turbulence when it spelled out the location of the hangar for maritime patrol aircraft. Here we find that both Avinor, Onkøe, Norwegian and SAS are very concerned about the planned hangar, about how he will affect the turbulence conditions at the airport. A letter stating that the current level of risk is at the acceptable level, building a hangar area could have a very restrictive effect on flight conditions. Then is the question to the Council of State: Was the turbulence issue assessed in the KVU in the KS1 and KS2 processes? Didn't you? Why didn't you? It is also important to know how any move of the hanger will affect the other investments to be made on the airbase, and whether it will also affect the desire of Defence Building to save money by storing the organic mass behind the hanger, as it is now located. There is also reason to ask why the committee did not receive this information when he was known to the department already in May. Furthermore, the Centre Party has received a document – again from Avinor – dated February 2nd this year, which takes account of several issues the Committee has not been able to decide on. Some of the main issues they want to solve are noise. After working a little on noise conditions in the Orland, among others. to agriculture – which is banished from its construction and cannot be allowed to stay in its dorms overnight if they are to take care of animals – one can ask yourself whether the noise conditions are sufficiently good and whether one can operate and work at the aerodrome when a fighter aircraft is about to take off. It is important that we clarify any additional costs and secure agreements before the challenges arise. Avinor asked for a meeting to solve the challenges. The new message from May shows that one has not arrived to negotiate everything. I want to come back with more. I want to end by just quoting Carl I. Hagen, who on a question in an e-mail says to a critical messenger that he gives him the right, but the government has concluded: then I have to follow her, even if I like it very badly, and even if it's completely incomprehensible, what the government puts up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e297	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e302	I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e307	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e312	It is not possible to discuss this proposition on investment in Defence without spending a little time in spring's debate and revelations related to the costs of the fighter aircraft program, because it will affect the scope of action of the Storting both for future investments in Defence and for our ability to successfully complete the investments that we are dealing with today. The control committee has taken this matter into account. That is right and important, but we should also discuss it today. We have been made clear that today the government believes it is unlikely or less likely – the wording varies a little – to achieve what has been the guiding goal for the fighter aircraft purchase. There was an information that the government did not find any reason to share in a clear way with the Storting in connection with the budget in the fall, despite the fact that it is quite obvious that the ability to keep this governance goal is going to have a lot to say about how much money we have to invest in other needs that the Defense has in the years to come. It raises the question of who is going to pay, and where the money is going to be collected, if we have to use the uncertainty reserve that has been in all rounds of handling the fighter aircraft purchase, but which has nevertheless been a clear premise that the government should try to avoid using. If it is to be used, there will be a lot to say about what kind of space we have for other investments, especially in the Army and the Maritime Defense, in the years to come. And then it turns out, in addition, through media postings that have come lately, that there's reason to fear that the entire cost framework might crack. This is not least related to the uncertainty surrounding the currency costs. It is obvious to ask the government when in that case one would have intended to take up the fear of the Storting, and I really hope that in that case it was the plan to do so before the Storting should go to any final treatment of the order of the last fighter planes. The purchase of an excessive number of F-35s is a price bomb that's going to hit the defense if we don't get it under control, and that's going to decrease the action space for absolutely necessary investments in the Army and the Maritime Defense. The government's refusal to take that debate in the open landscape, giving it the serious treatment needed in the Storting, means that we need to ask questions about whether the government has a strategy to solve that challenge. I would again like to underline to the Minister of Defence the need to get a full overview of the potential costs of the fighter aircraft programme before the government, if necessary, makes proposals to order the last six aircraft. Otherwise, I agree with the Workers' Party on what has been said about the uncertainty around when the Army will have a satisfactory tank capacity. It's big, and it worries us. We've pointed that out a number of times. The number of operational wagons is already too low for the need for the Armour Battalion and Telemark Battalion. The government has no rapid recovery plan. I think that is also natural to record today. So I'd like to end by agreeing with the Center Party on the concerns about the situation at Evenes. The information now available constitutes a significant change in the numerical basis for the establishment of the base for marine patrol aeroplanes on Evenes. It makes it natural to see that matter in a new light. It reinforces our arguments from the time we dealt with this case and said no to closure on Andeya, and it reinforces the argument for the proposal that the Center Party and the SV are promoting today, to get a separate case that can clarify costs and new factors as a result of the establishment of the Base on Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e329	Initially, I think I'll stick to the matter we're discussing now, and we'll see how far we can go. I encourage the opposition to use the replica box if there are things they haven't received answers to. For the government, it is important to follow up the priorities and the defence structure agreed upon by the Stortingen on the current long-term defence plan in 2016. All the proposals for investment presented in this proposition are important in order to continue the modernisation of the defence and demonstrate that the government is following the long-term plan. With regard to the project on the modernisation of crypto-solutions, I would like to make it clear that in the proposal in the proposal, the cost framework for the project is set at 660 million. kr, not 600 mill. kr, which the Committee has written in its opinion. I hope the committee can conclude that this is just a correction we need to have in. Even aircraft station shall be ready for training with F-35 already in the autumn of 2021 so that the emergency mission of NATO can be moved from Bodø to Evenes from 1 January 2022. Furthermore, the maritime patrol aircraft facilities shall be clear in the summer of 2022, in line with the delivery plans for the new aeroplanes. The project for the establishment of facilities for the maritime patrol aircraft has been subject to its own external quality assurance. The quality assurance report for the projects shows that the solutions chosen support the operational needs. In order to complete the facilities in time, the Quality Assurance Officer has recommended that a little more money be spent than was originally used in the concept selection investigation for Evenes. These include: that prioritisation of time in the event of time constraints can be cost-effective, and that is what has been included in the uncertainty assessment. An increased cost in the project obviously affects the overall cost picture of the establishment at Evenes. However, the total cost is well within the cost framework of which Stortinget has been informed by the draft selection inquiry. In this case, I believe it is important to use correct terms and values when comparing numbers. It has been claimed that the project of establishing facilities for the maritime patrol aircraft has had an increase of 80 pst. in one year. It has to be based on a comparison of apples and pears. Based on the recommendation of the external quality insurer, the new governance framework for the project is about 12 pst. higher than a frame based on numbers from the concept selection inquiry. This gives an increase of 3 pst. for the total cost of the whole development of Evenes. So to the discussion about the correspondence from Avinor and the attempts to say that we have subliminal information. This is an ordinary process in which Avinor and Defence Buildings discuss EBA at Evenes, and if you want to include the entire letter from Avinor, it also says that Avinor is constantly working to minimize the aviation operating challenges at Evenes. Avinor is therefore concerned about finding an optimal location for hangars to MPA in the area concerned. Flow analyses indicate that rotation of the hangar's building line will produce good effects. So this is a project where you try to be constructive and find good solutions. I think the project is in good hands. So I can't see that the figures on which the Storting's decision to establish Evenes as the base for maritime patrol aircraft and advanced base of operation for fighter aircraft has changed significantly. As previously adopted, Norway and Germany shall cooperate to acquire new identical submarines, four to Norway and two to Germany. The EBA project at Haakonsvern is important because there is an intention to maintain all six submarines in Norway. It is part of the agreement and therefore it is important to start EBA early. We also work specifically to support the industry, and the support we have given to the defence industry has produced good results. So we win projects in the F-35 programme; we get maintenance contracts. We have succeeded in the strategy we have put forward. Then there might be other and better ways to spend 100 million. which also supports a competitive industry. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Committee is joining in on the government's proposals for the investments we are making in defence. Projects are all important contributions to maintaining a credible and relevant defence in a more demanding security policy situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e363	In my speech, I asked the Minister of Defence to answer about the enquiry from Avinor to Defence Building about the location of the hangars for the MPA aircraft. I asked for an answer as to whether it means that the hangar has to be moved, whether it has any cost implications, and whether it changes the operating conditions for the location of the MPA aircraft. This letter is information that is new to Stortinget, so I believe it is most relevant that we ask questions about it. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence that we make informed decisions in Stortinget, but the only answer we have now received was that if I quote the Minister of Defence correctly, it is working on finding constructive solutions. So that's why I ask again: is the cost framework that we have for treatment today, real, and allows the placement of these MPAs to be implemented under the assumptions that the Storting has previously adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e368	Yes – with the knowledge we now have, the answer is yes to all the questions. This is a natural part of the process. You make a regulation plan, you put out EBA, and then you do the analyses that you need to do for a project like this. Then it'll be treated, and you have to make the necessary adjustments. Both Avinor and Defence Construction have outlined constructive solutions here. You can either move it, or you can turn the hangar, as Avinor suggests in his letter. So here, there's a good knowledge base for finding a solution to that problem, and this is a natural part of a process when you build a base of this size.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e373	Thanks for the answer. I then choose to assume that the cost framework we are currently dealing with is real and that the project will be implemented within that cost framework. But nevertheless, in the light of what has been said here in the Chamber today, and in the light of the Prime Minister's previous statements, I choose to follow up. The Prime Minister has previously stated that there should still be training and practice in Andøya. No one has so far been able to answer what it really means, so my follow-up question to the Minister of Defence is simply: are we now risking this race to end up with two parallel MPA bases?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e378	It's actually a loving and very good question. The reason why we are dealing with Bodø and Andøya in the current revision was as follows: NATO is rolling its plan against all Member States. It makes us need to roll our national base plan. Both in Bodø and in Andøya, we have major civil conversion projects in progress. We needed to clarify the status of Bodø and Andøya in such a way that we were created predictability of the civil activity planned there. Therefore both Bodø and Andøya have received a described emergency status. Yeah, it could be allied activity there, but we won't end up with two parallel MPA bases. Andøya will be prepared for a role in a crisis/war situation, a response role. We practice a lot with allies, and then we may have to practice on Bodø, Andøya and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e385	I have problems interpreting the Minister of Defense's answer here, and I assume that the Storting will have to go new rounds in terms of alliert receiving more broadly, and what kind of consequences it will have for our base structure. But he does not help to clarify what the Prime Minister's statement about continuing training and practice actually implies, and we hear the concern there that this is going to end with us having extensive American activity on Andeya, while we have a Norwegian-based activity on Evenes. Is this a development that the Minister of Defence sees for himself, and which he thinks is desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e390	No, it's not a development I imagine. On the contrary, we have adopted the long-term plan we are now in, and the national plan on which we are based, that we should practice with our allies. We also have in the concept of Even's described activity for allies. The MPA activity shall take place from Evenes. MPA activities with allies shall also take place from Evenes. We have tried – in order to create predictability of the civil projects in Bodø, new city, new airport, and in Andøya with the test centre and Andøya Space Centre – to create great predictability for the civilian stakeholders inside, by describing a preparedness status for the two bases. From an emergency point of view, any airport in Norway must be prepared to use it in crisis or war. [[President clubs]] But we're trying to create as much predictability for the civil activities as possible with what we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e395	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e400	There are a lot of questions one might have wanted to ask, but I understand that I get only one line, and it says his. It might have been interesting to ask when the defence minister was informed about the problem of turbulence on the plains of civil aviation, and when he was going to inform the Storting. Why is it so urgent to complete the MPA base on Evenes? Isn't it true that one today is flying P8 from Andeya, and is doing it very well? Isn't it also true that we have our problematic test flights with P8 on Evenes? But there's no question about it, because we don't have time for everything. It might be interesting to know if the Council of State can guarantee that the cost framework is working, when we know that the cost framework at Evenes has increased by 80 pst. before the spade is fragments in the soil. But I just want to ask you, will the move of the hangar lead to additional costs? And I want to re-examine the Marthinsen question: will we get two parallel MPA bases and bandage both And Islanda and Bodø in the future? It is not the responsibility of the Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e411	This was a pearl chain of groundless claims, so I'm not quite sure what to start with. With what we know now, the cost framework won't break down on Evens. If there is any knowledge that this is happening, we come to Stortinget and inform about it – simply. But there's nothing. I'm recording Navarsete's media opinion on the conflict between Avinor and Defence Building. This is not a conflict. There are two professional environments that do what they're supposed to do; they're trying to build the best possible conditions on the new base. Avinor himself sketches a possible solution in his own letter: Three hangar buildings, and we will have good operational considerations. You operate civilly at both of those airports. The operation is as high on the Evenes as it is on the Andes. Even aircraft are operated on jets; on Andenes they operate on propeller aircraft, civil – which should indicate that the operation on Andenes should be higher than on Evenes. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President cut off]] So it's good relationships...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e418	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e424	I think the Council of State just has to accept that several cases recently have contributed to the opposition's having some sobering belief in his ability to inform clearly and clearly about cost frameworks that crack. Now it became unclear to me what was really the answer to the questions about Evenes. Let me take up the other cost framework we're worried about by day, and it's about the fighter planes. According to the Class Battle survey, the calculations now being made by currency experts indicate that not only the control target of the fighter aircraft purchase is moving, but that the cost framework may also be in the process of moving. Is it also the impression of the Council of State, or can the Council of State calm the Storting down by saying that he does not have to push the direction target, so at least the price to stay within the cost framework of the F-35 purchase?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e431	This Council of States also has some confidence in the opposition's willingness to acquire the knowledge needed in these matters. We have always said that the cost of the fighter aircraft program is dependent on three things: what kind of cost reduction measures you can continue to do – so far the project has been reduced by 8 billion. kr in relation to the steering framework. What kind of negotiations you do in the future to negotiate six and six planes when you buy them – it will also have its say for the price, it can be cost-reducing. The third is the currency. When the representative refers to the calculation of the class struggle, the class struggle refuses to take the first two factors. They only make a forecast based on the currency. No, that's not how this project was presented to Stortinget, when the representative put in government. That's not how we've informed the Storting in the years that follow. That's not how we plan to inform in the future either. We'll take the whole picture. If we see a possible cost estimate, we will, of course, inform Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e438	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e443	It was the representative of Navarsete and the representative of Lysbakken who made me take the floor. The representative of Navarsete said that the uncertainty financing was not funded. That's wrong. The uncertainty provision is within the cost framework granted by Stortinget, but the uncertainty provision is not in the management objective of the project. As for the representative Lysbakken, SV has a recurring attachment to return to the F-35 project, all the time with the aim of reducing the number from 52 to 40 fighter aircraft. It has been a long time before this case about a possible cost excess came. SV has even claimed in the budget debate that by reducing the number of fighter planes from 52 to 40 you will have 220 million. kr more to be applied to the defence budget. Then you've allowed yourself to say that through that you want to strengthen the defense. First of all, there's a very small increase in relation to the increase in the year's defence budget of 4 billion. kr. But what's more serious is that reducing the number of fighter planes from 52 to 40 does something about the Air Force's fighting ability, and reducing the fighting capabilities of Air Force is also reducing the military capabilities of the overall defense. These aeroplanes shall not only perform operations on behalf of the Air Force, but they shall in fact ensure that land forces and maritime defence are able to perform the operations they need to perform when they are dependent on a safe airspace. So to the alleged cost excess of F-35. There are two factors that vary here. One is the price of the plane itself. It should be mentioned that the production price of the aeroplane drops and is lower than that initially assumed. Then you have an exchange rate that will vary over time. But if you look at these two factors opposite each other, and look into the glass sphere as far as you can see, there's nothing to suggest that there's a cost excess on this project. So it could also be interesting, if you manage the intellectual idea, to see the investment cost along with the actual lifetime cost of the project. Then you have the total sum on the project. As the Minister has pointed out several times, there is nothing to suggest that this total of the F-35 project is being exceeded. The case in Bergen's Official Journal is a lapsus of independent matters, where EBA and the facilities needed to run the F-35 daily, together with the investment cost are seen. If you choose to cook this together without trying out your own statements in a good way, you can make any story.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e456	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e461	It was a little short time to finish my post in the first place, so I thought I'd finish it – even if I'm not going to extend the debate unnecessarily. It is interesting to record how the Council of State only dismisses all objections. It is good that it is recorded in Stortinget's log, as it may be useful in later conditions. Those who work in the MPA environment, those who work in different airlines, those who are pilots, don't say the same thing as the State Council when it comes to evens. It's strange that there are so different versions from those who actually have their daily function as pilots, and from the state council, who sit in an office here in Oslo. Of course, the Central Party and I do not have an answer to the status of the case between Avinor and the Defence, as we have not been informed about it. We have not received any information. I should have. In the worst case, we may end up in a situation where civil aviation is displaced as a result of the expansion, when one is required to carry both QRA and maritime patrol aircraft into a fairly defined area, since this is also the Ramsar area. That's also topography. In that case, Ofoten misses the airport for civil traffic. There is a long list of demands from local and local politicians for what they want to demand. Because it's clear that they're now terrified that they're sitting around with the cost of this work. Is it worth the risk? The estimated cost of a new airport in Lofoten and Vesterålen is probably about 20 billion. kr, according to Avinor. Is this a risk that it's worth taking? So, in the light of the fact that there is new information on the matter between the presentation by the Committee and the debate, the Central Party has made a loose proposal today asking for the investment proposition to go back to the Committee on Re-Managing. It's a good idea to do something about it before the summer. Then you should get a full statement from the Council of State, preferably in a closed meeting, as he still indicates that a lot is secret. On the basis of the fact that we have to take decisions to have legitimacy, to be trusted by people, to be based on facts, and that all information is on the table, I hope that the Central Party will receive support for its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e476	I needed to draw myself one more time – for a couple of pretty obvious reasons. One is to visit the representative of the Rivers, who here from the pulpit chooses to call a review of the total cost picture of the acquisition of fighter aircraft for – I think the word was – a lapsus of different information. I think, to be absolutely honest, that it is alarming that on the part of the positioning parties, there is such a labyrinth of interest in finding out what are the facts about the cost development of the program as a whole, and also for the development of the bases. For this, there is one issue with potentially significant implications for the defence’s ability to make other types of investment in the future. This is about the area of defence in the years to come, and we should all be interested in that. So back to Evenes. I need, before we round the debate on this matter, to clarify the underlying assumptions, even after the Minister of Defence has been on the pulpit for several rounds. The Minister of Defence has stated that moving the hangar will not increase costs and increase the time it takes to implement that project. So the Minister of Defence has confirmed that from the Spokesman's Chair, and we note that. The Minister of Defence has now also clearly stated that we should not have two parallel MPA bases. It is tempting to ask whether it means that the Minister of Defence has now said that Alliert MPA activity should also take place from Evenes. In that case, it's fine if he comes to the pulpit and clarifies and clarifies it. I have to say that, like the representative of Navarsete, I am pleased that a record is being made, because these are two key clarifications, which are now the basis for the Labour Party to vote as we do in the Chamber later today. Getting the emphasis on that particular point is why I went to the pulpit again now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e485	Two words about fighter aircraft first, since both the Minister of Defense and the representative of Riveres have been very bombastic in their mention of it: I would say that what is at stake now is not the fighting ability of the Air Force, but the fighting ability of the rest of the Defense – if the investments in a very large, comprehensive and expensive fighter aircraft make it impossible for us to invest in other things that are absolutely necessary to get the Army up and up. It is quite correct that SV believes it had held 40 aircraft, and there are a number of studies in connection with the fighter flight that show that it would give Norway a good and solid fighter weapon. But today's option is 46 or 52, since the answers we received from the Ministry of Defence indicate that it is not legally possible to go back on the order of the last six. So the big question now is whether to go to 52 or not, and then it will be – and I would stress this – irresponsible to go to 52 without having more clear control over the cost picture than we have today. I notice – and it is once again very important that a record be made from this meeting, we will take good care of that record – that the Minister of Defence is very clear that he now has no reason to fear excesses of costs, and that the representative of the Rivers on behalf of the Right calls it ‘the alleged excess of costs’ and says that there is ‘nothing to suggest’ that costs are being exceeded, etc. Everything is listed and will be kept in good condition. I must also say that I think the speech of the Right, through the representative of the Rivers, of critical journalism in this matter is at least a little bit elegant. I think the government is going to meet critical journalism in this case with a little less arrogance. I hope for the government's sake that it turns out that it is not Bergen's magazine that is right. Then today's record will be a burden on the government parties. Short to Evenes in the end, that's why I actually drew myself. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e498	I'm sorry, it's time to go. You'll have one more minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e503	It's been zero all along. Quite briefly, I believe that some information related to Evenes has come up that makes it reasonable that we should take the little extra time that will require one round in the committee. I think the centre party has good arguments for that, and that is why SV will vote in favour of the resolution promoted by the centre party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e508	Now, the proposition we're dealing with is that we're going to make big investments in Defense. What is worrying, and which several representatives of the Central Party have mentioned – and I hear that SV also wants to support it – is that one has an unexplained cost picture so far, as it emerges from, among other things. construction of the operation of maritime patrol aircraft on Evenes. The reason why this activity is important is that it is one of the most important contributions Norway makes to NATO, and it is about our own monitoring, security and control of marine resources. The last thing that has raised the issue is about the correspondence between Avinor and Defence Building on the estimated risk at Evenes Airport on the approach and departure with today’s design and the infrastructure located in the acceptable risk area – it’s just within today’s time. At the same time, the planned development of Evens should therefore take into account the need for new hangar facilities, etc. for maritime patrol aeroplanes, international requirements for turbulence could not be met. It is not the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, in fact, to ensure that the consequences for civil aviation and other territorial developments at Evenes – and to the extent of Bodø – are taken into account, but it is interesting to hear whether there have been any assessments if the international safety requirements at a civil airport are exceeded by the creation of military building bodies close to air strips. Furthermore, when the cost estimate is so much suspended in the air and the Minister of Defence says to the NRK that if new estimates are made, it is of course time to return to the Stortinget to ask why the regulatory plan has not yet been put in place, and why tenders have been announced in advance, before having the Stortinget's approval of the cost framework used. So has it also emerged recently that the US has done simulations, among other things. by takeoffs of fully loaded P8, the new maritime patrol aeroplanes decided to purchase and they have failed. This means that you can initially just take off or land one way on Evenes, and given the topographical and climate conditions that we know exist there, it is especially true that on the part of several parties you are so steadfast that you are already going to make the decision on the investment framework without having determined whether it is actually possible to implement the location you have calculated. Interestingly, the Council of State says that there is work going on to find the best possible location, but one should be able to assume that this was known earlier. Then I can ask: When did that work start? Where are the sketches and the new location of the area that you're going to have? And is it that you're safe on the option you're offering? I interpret the signals that have come so far, to the point that you are not, but you choose to go on anyway. It's worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e522	It's a strange introduction to this debate. Based on what Mr. Navarsete and Mr. Nordlund have said, it should almost be believed that there was no aviation competence in either the Defense or the Avinor. I trust that the professionals who are handling that process can do what they are going to do. If you base the entire letter from Avinor, it gives legitimacy to the process, because you describe a problem, and you show that you're in a constructive process to solve it. Willfred Nordlund asks: When did you start with the location? Well, Defence Building proposed eight alternative locations. Avinor chose the location that's now selected, and then you do the simulations of turbulence, which you have to do no matter what you build on an aerodrome. So it's a very ordinary process you're in. So let's see about fighter planes and that base. I'm recording that the opposition uses the term "discovered" about that process. The Official Journal of Bergen does not receive the SKUP price to read the documents sent by the government to Stortinget. That's where they got the knowledge of the fighter aircraft program. As I say, if you're going to make a qualified forecast in the future, you have to assume that you have cost reductions in the program, you have to assume that the next planes are to be negotiated, and you have to deal with the currency problem. All of this is informed in the documents of the Stortinget. I fully agree that it's challenging if we're going to sit with a dollar price of almost 9 kroner for six years to come, but a currency challenge is also described, while we've spent a lot of time describing that the project is successful. On the steering frame we have now decreased by 8 billion. kr, from SEK 74 billion kr, within the project. Cost-reduction measures are being implemented to benefit the project. So to the last, bid. The supplier is subject to prior approval. These are processes that take time, so we need to make sure that everyone gets delivered. It's the process that's now going on at Even's on one project. You get an approval from the suppliers, you have published the tender documents on Doffin, and then you have reserved for political approval. It's a very ordinary, very transparent and safe process that's going on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e533	I noticed that the Minister of Defense was not interested in going into what to do if the defence's location of building on Evenes would prevent you from meeting the aviation requirements laid down internationally. But more interestingly, the Minister of Defense is attacking the Centre Party to ask questions about the aviation competence. On the contrary, we have not. It is precisely the aviation competence that is at stake, and the letter that has come up with a discussion about the turbulence that arises with the location you have chosen, which causes us to ask questions. After all, it is aviation competence that has pointed out that with the conditions you are currently putting up, it is not possible to implement them. I also record that the Council of State agrees with that, and that is why, in the end, a work has begun to look at an alternative location. There is no evidence in the proposition that these conditions are not clarified, but you are very clear that you need to set a cost framework, and that you are ready to get started. It is also a signal that is given through the launch of what is known as the prequalification of suppliers, in connection with tenders for the construction of new hangars on Evenes. The risk estimates for flight operations are in severe weather, they are in severe turbulence, and it is very uncertain whether a safe landing can be achieved. That's also what Avinor has pointed out in connection with the location of the hangar that Defense Building has proposed. I also record that the government is very insecure — and obviously a little uncertain about where to land — and that is an expression of the fact that, even if you claim to know the cost framework, you may well need to get back to the Storting with new, up-to-date estimates when they are available. It's worrying that we're going to make such an investment decision in the Storting today without having these relationships clarified, and it would be useful if we were actually able to take a little break to check that we're where we're going, and that we don't go on a big bill here. Because it will have an impact on other projects that we are totally dependent on are being started, with the construction and purchase of new material in the Defence and otherwise a general strengthening of our entire defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e546	Here we have to cut a little bit into roles. It is not that the Foreign and Defence Committee of the EEAS is the steering group for the project at Evenes. There is no knowledge available to indicate that the project is going to crack. No, we've come to know that there's a good process going on – there's a good dialogue between Avinor and Defence Building. There is no available knowledge to suggest that the investment proposition should not be adopted in the Storting. There will be many challenges in a project as large as this. Nor does it stand anywhere — as is suggested by the representative of Nordlund — that the defence has an intention to lower the operational capabilities of Evenes as an airport in terms of civil traffic. On the contrary, there is a dialogue, in a process, to maintain the operational characteristics of airports. That's why you've done those turbulence simulations, and that's why moving it is an alternative. Another option that Avinor has also pointed out is to turn the hangar building. It will provide considerable improvement. It is clear that there should be civil traffic at Evenes in the future as well. So to that with the process: the regulation plan is in for approval now. It will set the framework for noise, for emissions and for all the requirements that have come. I am very pleased that there is a local political commitment to Evenes for the conditions around the airport – it should just be missing. I'm very happy about that. They have also made representations in what are the democratic processes — the planning processes we have in Norway. That's very good. This is a healthy process, and there's no reason for the Center Party to try to doubt where we are in this process now, or stop and try to suggest that you don't have all the knowledge you need. Well, all the knowledge you need is available. This is a big project, and there may be adjustments along the way. But we don't have any knowledge that we're going to have any increasing costs now; we don't have any knowledge that means we're going to get any cost. If that happens, I will of course come back to Stortinget and inform about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e559	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e575	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e588	This is a matter of an area that may not be discussed as much as the purely operational tasks of the Defence. But the fact that you have a clean and proper environment around you, that you feel that it's on a high and good level, does something about the ability of the solar data to get the rest and the recovery they need, in a good environment, which is also part of and promotes a good working environment. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. In this case, it's not the broad plural that there were at least parts of the previous case. I want to do something about the matter and then briefly about the centre party's hold, and then I expect that the government party, the position, will do something for its eyesight. Defence constructions had previously added 400 in the form of reindeer. The company ISS won the bidding process and took over the tasks on 1 May 2016. Formerly, the Defence Agency was the sole provider of these services using its own add-ons and some interiors, which stood for 30 pst. by the cleaning agent. There has been a great dissatisfaction with the conversion. It is also referred to an FAFO report from 2018, report No. Thirty-two. The contract with the ISS expires in January 2020, and it allows – as pointed out by the Workers’ Party’s proposers – that the defence can take over the retention if it is desired. There is no doubt that good cooperation between the civil sector and the defence sector is important and that, in some respects, it can make good use of resources and also good operational capacity. In addition, it can help improve the economy. Nevertheless – and now I want to put on the Senterpart hat – you show the conversations and documents from the adders and leaders in the Defense that one has not had the effect of the privatisation that was desirable. Shield clay can be a good example. When Defence Construction had the tasks of cleaning, there were 12–15 added. After privatisation, five would do the same job. It has led to dissatisfaction and negative operational efficiency for the Defense. VG recently had a look about just that, which shows that construction is not properly cleaned, and that of course it does not give the well-being that should – and should – be in a camp where one should relax and gather forces to have good forces for operational work. The space major on Shield thinks that only 50 pst. of the agreed retention was made for 2018, but that it was invoiced for 100 p.m., and before Easter two plastic halls were closed in the camp due to the lack of washing. It is also the case that personnel who do not have a safety clearance, e.g. workers who enter quickly must be followed around by military personnel. More people in the defence must use working time to do this, and it has a negative operational impact. The main verneumbodet, Thomas Hansen, has closed several halls. It has operational significance, and it's not a situation that can continue at the time we go into it. The Ministry of Defence has also returned and added its own sinks within the departmental cooperation, since they considered that the quality was not good enough. It's interesting that the department for its own part has different requirements than one think one should have for the different bases around. There has also been a loose proposal, proposal No. 2, by the representative of Moxnes on behalf of Red. It's a proposal the Center Party has great sympathy for. It is not available, but I will follow the debate today and consider how the party will speak when we end up with today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e607	Will the representative address the proposal on which the Central Party is party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e612	I would like to address the proposal to which the Central Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e617	Then the representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e622	I would argue that this matter is of major importance in principle. No one has to be in doubt that the Labour Party also believes that there must be cooperation between the Defence and the private in Norway in order for the Defence to function effectively. We've always been behind that, and so do we today. But as this case appears, and as it has evolved, I have to say that it is strange that it is not possible to get the majority of people to look at this matter again, because this simply has not worked. We've been through this discussion once before, in the context of a line exchange here. It is quite clear that here are the ideological reasons that are going – unfortunately. With the information that the committee is now holding, I want to characterise the privatisation of the clean-up team in the Defence as a failure. As can be seen from the setting, there is even considerable scepticism and direct resistance to how the work is done by the ISS – direct resistance in the Defense itself. The striking example is that of the case rapporteur here, from Skjold, where there are concrete complaints on the cleaning team, and that the cleaning team is so poor that they have to close parts of the camp for hygienic reasons. The reason why this develops is that the ISS is trying to press the contract so that they do not have a crew to do the job correctly. That is the concrete fact of the matter. So it goes so far that it goes beyond what is called operational capability, in the sense that it affects hygiene, well-being and operational ability. Secondly, we are told from many teams – and it is from qualified personnel – that they need to use a lot of security personnel around the defense facility to escort the washing assistants around because they are not cleared for safety. There's a new situation in the defense, which we didn't have before, when we had the other arrangement. Only it should be a crossroads for the Minister of Defence and for those who support this system. These are the main reasons why the Workers' Party has gone into this – because we consider this an unfortunate defence system. Then we have the paradox that the state council has confirmed earlier here in the main hall, that for these reasons the ministry has gone away from having the ISS as a cleaner. The ministry could no longer have them, and the defense protests. Nevertheless, the government believes that such a system should be maintained. That's when I say they do it on an ideological basis. It is regrettable that in dealing with such a matter, in so far as a limited case in the defence is concerned, one has to use ideology to manage it in order to advance its points of view. Last time in the Chamber, the Council of State said – and this is a quote: ‘Yes, there have been significant problems with the service to be provided by the ISS, both in terms of quality and in terms of the working environment and how the employees feel they have been received there.’ So the Council of State and I agree on the situation description, but nevertheless it is not possible to include the majority of the population and the government in a reflection and an opinion that this is where you should turn on the tile, to put it straight out. So it's claimed that it's saved 400 million. kr in the period from May 2016 to 2019. It may be true, but what is it at the expense of? Yes, it's at the expense of two relationships. One is that it's obviously at the expense of the quality of the clean-up in the defense institutions in Norway, a completely unnecessary thing that shouldn't have been treated here in the main hall at all, because this is what the government should be handling. Then we're on the second main point: what this has meant for the employees who worked faithfully in the Defense for decades after decades of cleaning. We know the result: 60 cleaners were transferred. The others were cancelled. Think about it! So the people who had worked in the Defense for all the years were quit – after many years of service. There are many who have lost significant pension income as a result. Is there something we're going to do in Norway – do such things against faithful employees of state enterprises? Is it political to do things like that because you're saying you're going to be able to save something? Then you might have saved something, I won't protest at it, but the quality has become then. And this isn't just me saying. I can't say this from Stortinget's pulpit without having documentation from the defense itself. It's the defense's own people who say this. At least then, the Minister of Defense should have responded in loyalty to them. It will be exciting to hear what he says later in the debate. In summary, then, the situation in this case is that it's bad cleaning, we have significant security challenges, we've put a faithful staff under pressure and given many of them poorer economic conditions, and many of them who have quit have not received the pension they've been working for their entire lives. That's the summed up situation around this. All of this was warned against. We said, don't do this, because it'll lead to these things. We were rejected. It turns out we got it right. We can prove that we have been given a right in terms of both safety, the quality of cleaning and the situation of employees – all three of them. We have been given the right in this matter. Therefore, it would have been desirable, of course, if we could have a majority in favour of the proposal we have made, which could put an end to this and bring us back to good relations for the employees and also for the defence and for security. Of course, we are not getting the Right Party and the Advance Party into this, I am quite aware of that, because I have heard the argument earlier. It's based on a liberal understanding that I'm wrong, that just privatisation can continue, becomes increasingly effective and much better. And then, of course, you ignore the fact that people lose their pension rights and get under pressure when it comes to employment. The last thing we're used to, but it shouldn't have happened in this context. The Christian People's Party and the Left are on board. Yes, of course they are. That's the price they have to pay to be in this government. This may not be such a very big matter in and of its own accord, but it is basically of great importance. That's why it's absolutely necessary that we make a mark here, and I was hoping that the bulk of the population could support this proposal, so that we could clean this up in a proper and good way. Finally, I would like to point out that Red has promoted a so-called loose proposal, which is about another matter, namely the defence workshops. There are many intentions in the proposal supported by the Workers' Party. We are very sceptical about the pressure put on the workshop industry in the defence sector, considering that it should also be partially privatised. We have been against that in the defence agreement, and we are against it today as well. However, dealing with such loose proposals that are about something other than the realities of this matter is not a sensible and proper procedure. So in this context, we will point to the need to possibly come back to this with a proposal that requires a committee procedure, and also in communication with the ministry. On that basis, the Labour Party will not vote in favour of the resolution of the representative, Mr Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e665	I agree with the representative of Kolberg that this matter is a matter of principle, but with a slightly different approach. It is basically in this sense: what is the defence going to do, and what is the defence's core business? There is no ideology in the majority's position on this matter; it is a purely pragmatic approach. As the representative of Kolberg was involved, it is actually possible to release approximately three years. 300 million. kr by implementing this amendment. In the previous case, we discussed tanks – if one manages to trigger this saving potential, there are four tanks. Is there any place where the defense has very good prerequisites for putting the list high – to say it that way – it's clean, because it's inspected every day. When you're not satisfied with the clean team, at least it's going to be a hug for the soldiers. It should be possible to lift this supplier so that the purity remains at the acceptable level. Private cleaners are used in a lot of other parts of society, so it would be weird if you didn't make this work in the Defense. If we put this matter into a slightly larger context, for every case belongs in a context – McKinsey delivered a report in 2013 that pointed out an annual efficiency potential in the Defence of the order of 3.5 to 4.5 billion. kr. It was really enough to cover the gap in the operating budget between the activity and the investments that had to be made, and the appropriations that the Stortinget made available. That report is very interesting, it points out several areas in which the defence can take out a significant efficiency gain: ICT, acquisitions, operating acquisitions, investments, the operation of construction and construction and investment in construction and construction. This matter is simply a follow-up to one of the many measures on which this report was concerned. We have dealt with other measures in the past, but I notice that every time, or at least quite often when, the Storting will deal with follow-up actions to free up financial resources in the Defence to strengthen the pointed end, the Workers' Party will place itself on the side of the organisations. I understand that, the Workers' Party is in that tradition, but you can't do what the Stortinge has actually decided, and to which the majority of the Storinge have joined, namely to run the Defence more effectively and to free up financial resources. This has been a review melody in all the professional military councils of the Chief of Defence since 2003. It is then the responsibility of the Stortinget to actually be able to carry this out, so that the significant efficiency potentials that are in that department can be exploited. Some of it's taken out, but there's still some of it left. Then any activity under the magnifying glass, including the cleaners, must be carried out. And there has been no lack of understanding of the situation for many of those who now need to get a new employer. It is a fact that cleaners who are over 60 years of age and who have worked for more than 15 years in the Defence Department still have the defence as an employer, so you have shown the pragmatism and understanding of the individual's situation. The conclusion is that this is a small matter, but it's an interesting matter in a larger context, and we'll get a lot more of these cases if we're going to be able to turn the defense together in a more economical way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e678	The opposition promotes a proposal in which they talk about propriety and reason, or lack of such in reality – well, I guess so. Let me start with "decentness". It is well decided first and foremost whether you follow the laws, regulations and contract documents and otherwise behave properly and decently. In this case, we have followed the usual complaint procedure. Of the approx. 400, which was involved, 11 went to court. They lost the trial. The duck. Then a settlement was made, and then one has been settled and agreed. Part of the agreement is that the original judgment, in which the parties involved lost, is forceful. In addition to this, the Ministry extended exceptionally far for the elderly by providing them with special agreements and pension conditions. The Ministry extended far beyond the existing legislation and agreements in the labour market. It's hard to characterize it as not decent. The Working Environment Act and the rules on transfer of activities have been followed. They've kept the pay they had. If we're going to sum up the issue of propriety, the Ministry of Defence has gone far, followed the rules that are. I guess it's a decent thing to talk about. What is the reality here is that the Workers' Party is doing this as part of a more widespread attack on private business and outsourced competition. That's the ideology in this case. Sometimes they use a language that I'd rather not characterize from here. But when you talk about people as profiters, most people in Norway think of those who built airports and other things for the Germans during the war, and not of private entrepreneurs, who are betting houses, wealth, and sometimes family, and spend all their spare time trying to create profitable business. That's where the values of society are created, and it's these that are attacked by this proposal, as a broader part of the Labour Party's policy. We see it very clearly in Oslo, for example, where the privatisation of home services would have saved at least 400 million. kr a year, and that's just a small part. There you have to privatize catering and cooking; you have to privatize cleaning. So poor people who go on private washing floors or eat private cooking, it's obviously not safe. And it affects women entrepreneurs, who often work in these sectors – with health, care, cleaning, food production, etc. With regard to this matter in concrete terms, the representative of Kolberg kept talking about the defence. But the reality is that the Defence Logistics Organisation has ten areas for clean-up. As of today, there is at least one of them where there are still some challenges. That's the case with Shield and the Troms area, which is struggling. Most of the others are fine. The Minister of Defence and all those involved have acknowledged that there have been a number of start-up problems, but this has almost been fully resolved. So you've learned something on the way. The solution is not to stop doing what you're almost in port with, but to make sure that it's okay. It is actually a little surprising that this committee is dealing with something that the head of defence and the local branch of the Defence Logistics Organisation are actually about to get in place. But that's the way it is. We've saved 100 million. kr on this. There is money that we can move to Homeland – buy ammunition, tanks or anything else for. It's just one of a lot of areas where we're going to do the same thing that the representative of Riveres was in instead: we have to relentlessly pursue all the areas where we can save money, and move it to the pointed end, so that the defense can do what they're going to do. I work for every day at the Defence College. We've roughly halved the workforce there. Obviously, we have to work faster, smarter and better and come up with new solutions, but we have saved over 500 million. kr per year. With today's currency, we have just where I work – plus cleaning, which we are discussing today – ready to get us six tanks a year. If we keep doing that, we're going to have to sort out the tanks and a number of other things. And that's a prerequisite for us to succeed, for the public sector in general to operate effectively and do what it should. In the case of the Ministry of Defence, they are part of the department's service centre, which has a common solution for all departments. If they have found that the ISS did not provide good services, and have done so in another way, it shows that privatisation works, because you are taken from the contract if you do not succeed and cannot achieve the results you are going to achieve. That's how we have to drive it. The advantage of privatisation is that we also stop some of the public enterprises that do not work well. Now look around: I looked at a statistics on sick leave some places. So there are public enterprises that have 20 pst.–25 pst – and almost 30 pst. - sick leave. Such businesses go bankrupt if you run in the private sector. After all, we must try to make the public sector – in which everyone is really very happy – work effectively. It will then have to be put out of competition. Anyone who has gone to school or has been involved in sports knows that competition is good for us to do a little more. I'm going to finish in a nice way, I'm going to invite the opposition to lunch where I work as usual, at Akershu's fortification. They can then be allowed to go on private washing floors and eat homemade food. I can promise them that it will be an absolutely pleasant and secure experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e699	This is a bad thing. It is one thing that the cleaners in the defense themselves have warned us against for several years. There was a lot of attention around this decision when it was taken. SV and several other parties worked intensively to prevent this in the previous period. Unfortunately, exactly what we warned against has proved to be what happened. I now hear from the right in this debate that this is not about ideology. Well, it is quite obvious that this is part of a larger picture where this government is characterized by a very strong belief that more market provides better services — such a strong belief that the Prime Minister himself declared in the context of Højres national meeting that this municipal election campaign will be a battle against the desire of the radical left to stop privatisation and welfare gains. Well, we're looking forward to that prize fight, and this case shows why it's important. If we are to get better services in Velferds-Norway, better clean-up in Defence, we must bet on people and not on the markets. This case shows that privatisation is both unsocial and bad. In this case, it is clear that the piece of art is both to ensure that many workers who have served faithfully through a long professional life have lost their jobs and lost their pensions, and at the same time have suffered poorer cleaning and non-target services. So you've achieved all of the things that were warned about in advance. This privatisation is a daunting failure, and if the government parties are not able to see it, it is a bad thing for the ability to learn from their own mistakes, which, after all, is and must be an important task for a government as well. What we are getting described, at the latest through a look-up in VG yesterday, from Skjold, is a day-to-day schedule where fewer people will do the same job, how many have been laid off in connection with the transition to a private employer, and where, for example. a doubling of work tasks for some is reported. Large losses in pension entitlements are another part of this. So, first of all, you have to ask yourself: are we saving money in the long run to make sure that services we need – because we need cleanness in defence too – are not done? Is there a reasonable way to save? I think the real representative of the Progress Party said so. He wanted us to "seeklessly pursue" all the opportunities to save money, and that's probably a pretty straightforward description of what's happened here. Then my question on the government side is: Is it really that robbery on the labour force and the dumping of pension rights is this government's strategy to save money? In that case, I think the government should find other ways to save money. This discussion about the small amounts in this context that may be saved on a service that is not being done satisfactorily comes in quite a ghastly perspective when one looks it up against the way billions fly in other defence cases, for example. when the government is going to buy out aeroplanes. The state should be a bastion for a clean working life. We are in a situation in which temporary jobs and unemployment are spreading, not least in the service industries, where we see a severe pressure on employment and wages, and it is a central and important part of the trend towards increasing inequality in power and wealth that we have in Norway – a working life that is getting smaller and smaller on the premises of the many who are going to do the work that builds Norway, and more and more on the premises of the few who have the most money and power. We have to reverse that trend if the inequalities are going to decrease. We have to have a clean working life where firm, good jobs are the rule. If we are to have such a work life in the private sector, the state must go ahead. Instead, we see that the state is following developments in parts of the private sector, which have given us a working life where – and it is important to remember this – the 10 pst. the most poorly paid Norwegian labour force has not experienced real wage growth in the last ten years. That's the working life we have in parts of the private sector. The state must go ahead and show the way to another working life, and therefore the privatisation of the clean-up of the defence must be stopped. So I just want to say that SV will vote for it solve the proposal from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e721	Some parties have a totally blind belief in neoliberal desktop theories, where the answer is always privatisation, no matter what the question was, and they are completely resistant to facts from the real world. The government has responded to the defense with these desktop theories, and the recipe has been more centralization and more privatisation. So ISS got to take over the cleaning team in the defense. Then it didn't go as these privatisation champions promised. There was some savings on the paper, and now a lot of taxpayers go to the ISS, but in reality this was a disaster for the defense and for the cleaners. Now it is so bad cleaning that several of the buildings of the Defense must be kept closed. In addition, we know that people who have done a thorough cleaning for many decades, who have been in charge of the community, lose over 1 million. the amount of the pension due to the privatisation of citizens. In addition, defence officials have to set aside time and set aside their tasks in order to follow up the clean-up process as it was done before, when it was under their own control, but it is not done when it is under ISS control. They take time to follow up the cleaning team, write letters to policymakers and write complaints to the ISS. They have got their own washdays, some employees in the defense, where they do the job that ISS should have done, but they don't do according to contract. We have many times heard this numerical magic from these privatisation champions in the bourgeois parties. If we just privatize, we get more for less, they say. They learned that in study circles in the Young Right and FpU. The reality is that someone pays the price for this. It's the workers who do it. Those who do the job pay the price of the Advance Party and the Right privatization blessed by the Left and Christian People's Party. At the same time, some people make use of it, i.e. the owners of the companies. It is quite obvious that we should take the clean-up team back in the defense, under our own direction, and thus ensure both the quality and that there are decent working conditions for those who do this important job. Unfortunately, the scandal we are now seeing is not enough to slow down the government's plans for further privatisation in Defence. The maintenance of the equipment shall reach out of the defence industries and into central units, which shall release more private capital. Thanks to the mobilization of the defence trade union movement, we were last little, in December last year, stopped the army workshops from being privatised, but still fear the trade unions and the workers at the workshops that centralisation of maintenance is a step on the way to the imminent privatisation of the services. Now the fear among many in the Defense is that the government in the rear has decided to outsource the maintenance in the Air Force. We've seen how it's been with the cleaning team, but if the maintenance is outsourced, it can go even worse. Then we talk about the defence equipment and therefore the operational capability that can be severely weakened by such a type of privatisation. This is warned against by the Norwegian Association of Officers and Specialists, by the Norwegian Team of Officials and by the Joint Confederation — the same trade unions that have warned against the privatisation of the clean-up team in the Defence. The defence is full of women and men who give everything to defend Norway, also against the greatest military overpower. Now they need help to resist the privatisation that is in the process of destroying important defence support functions. Now the Storting must take action, take the warnings from the trade unions seriously and not least stand behind our proposal to ensure that the planned efficiency of maintenance in the Defence does not lead to further privatisation, worse working conditions or loss of maintenance competence in the Defence. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e742	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e747	No, this is not an ideological debate, but the left-hand side would like it to be an ideological debate, because then they can use terms such as ‘crushing’ and ‘welfare profitors’ about welfare entrepreneurs. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has agreed to maintain the system of external clean-up where appropriate. Civil-military cooperation could create cost-effective solutions to release funds for operational activities. Competition is thus one of several important means of making the most of society's overall resources. Efficiency and improvement of the public sector are important in order to release resources for higher priority purposes. The efficiency of the defence sector, together with increased appropriations, is a key prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the long-term programming period. In the first row, the objective is to increase accessibility and stamina. Then we're going to increase activity, presence and preparedness, and make investments in key capacities. This is an approach to which the Storting has joined. I'm going to come back to some of the claims made about the new clean-up system in the defence sector. But first I want to briefly present some facts about the plan. The new scheme provides an expected overall savings for the defence sector of nearly 400 million. kr from 2016 to 2019. When we moved on to the new system, the government was dedicated to caring for the oldest cleaners separately. A transitional arrangement was therefore established for the oldest cleaners near retirement age, which meant that employees over 60 years of age and with a minimum of 15 years of service were offered to continue their employment in the Defence. I am also pleased that other permanently added cleaning personnel were offered a permanent job with a new supplier. In particular, the rules on transfer of activities provided them with: continued longevity and salary levels. The cleaners transferred to the private sector went over to the pension schemes applicable to the external activity. These pension schemes are in line with the framework laid down by the Storting for private sector pension schemes. In addition, many will be able to withdraw pensions from the employer in the public sector, a so-called pension right. The Ministry of Defence has stressed the need to make clear demands on the supplier to discharge its social responsibility and to comply with the laws and regulations. The defence is a demanding customer and demands both safety, quality and maintenance of the personnel. The defence is required to have good control regimes to ensure that the supplier complies with these requirements. The defence has found, through its checks, only a small number of deviations, and these were corrected shortly after the ISS was made aware of the situation. Any requests that the working load of each cleaner is perceived to be too large are accompanied by the Defence. This is done by checking the areas of individual cleaning. Where the enquiry is justified, the defence goes into dialogue with the supplier. It was a prerequisite for the suspension of competition that security should be at least as good as before. In addition to the supplier’s being regulated, the contract requires the cleaners to be cleared according to the grading required in the premises in which they work. The defence itself maintains clean-up in locations that impose specific safety requirements. Very much of the cleanness in the defence sector goes as expected and under contract. Where there are challenges, this is followed up by the Defense. However, as the Committee is also aware, the supplier has had special challenges with the quality of cleaning in Troms, especially on Skjold. The multi-use halls, which were closed in April due to lack of cleaning, were reopened on 10 May after the ISS had put in extra resources to have them cleaned. There are also allegations that the ISS has invoiced for clean-up that have not been implemented. The defense looks at these claims and has not been able to detect any defects so far in the work. As a result of the challenges, the contract in Troms is re-examined with a view to the conclusion of a new start-up contract in January 2020. With the exception of the challenges on Shield, the overall defence experience an improvement in the quality of clean-up supplies. There is nothing new that there are challenges to cleaning in some places. It also occurred when Defence Construction was in charge. What is now new is that non-compliance reporting is put in place, and poor sanitation has consequences for the supplier in the form of fines. Good civil-military cooperation is a central tool for the government to build a strong defence. Civilian solutions are considered where this provides the best use of resources and the best operational capability overall. The defence partners are actors with resources and competences The defence needs. The new scheme has met the expectations of contributing to a significant economic resource release. Despite the challenges of poor clean-up in some areas, the economic gain that has been released for higher priority activities is so important that it far exceeds the challenges. The new clean-up service scheme helps the sector to concentrate on its core areas and to focus on further developing and enhancing operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e775	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e780	I doubt it, but assume that this is not ideology, but what is called pragmatism and a desire for effective operation. Then my question to the defence minister, who is responsible for all the activities in the defence, is also what we are talking about here: Is it right from a pragmatic point of view to ensure that employees get worse pay and pension conditions, and that they get into a situation where the cleaning team gets so bad that they have to close down businesses in the defence? Is there a pragmatically correct way to direct parts of the defence business?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e785	Employees who went to the ISS have competitive pay and pension conditions. They have pay and pension conditions according to the tariffs and frameworks laid down. This is not about quality pragmatism. Now we have the chance to control the quality, and we have the opportunity to clause. If we're not satisfied, we can either cancel the contract or we can deliver daily fines. We now have a chance to measure the quality of the cleaning team, and we have an opportunity to do something when we're not satisfied. It's a very good system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e790	It is a question that is not asked, and that it is quite timely to ask now. Was it the case that the cleaning team in the defense was poor before entering into that contract with the ISS? Was it necessary to have all these control procedures and to check that it was good, as it was necessary to leave the scheme you had, or was it based on completely different considerations? Because I never heard any complaints, and I have actually been in that business in different ways throughout all the years, including as State Secretary in the Ministry of Defence. And I have never heard that this was a problem, but it has become a problem after you signed this contract with ISS. And then the question is, is it that the cleaning team was so bad in the past that it was necessary to set up a system where you were supposed to check?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e795	That's two things. One is that we are measured at what price we can deliver this service. It's a healthy economic principle all the time we're going to give priority to how we're going to use the funds in Defense. Then the tendering principle also provides an opportunity to describe the quality of the service we will have provided. I also believe that this is a very healthy and very good principle for the best possible use of resources for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e800	Of course, the Council of State does not respond to what I am asking for. I guess it got a little bit too difficult, probably. I asked a very clear question: was it so that the cleaning team in the defense was so bad that you had to go over to the ISS? That's what I was really asking. I did not get a proper answer to that, so I repeat that question. But I would also like to say at the same time, before we end this: does the Council of State feel comfortable that so many employees were laid off after many years of service in the Defense Department? Does he feel comfortable with the fact that many lost significant pension entitlements after many years of defence? And can he now guarantee a good clean-up in the Defense for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e807	This is a bit of a crooked debate. If the question from the representative Kolberg is whether there was anyone who complained about the cleaning team in the defense department when Defence Building was in charge, then the answer is yes. Of course, you weren't as satisfied everywhere. But my point is that by applying the principle of tendering, the principle of competition we have used, we are able to describe a quality of the service you want, and we are able to get more suppliers to deliver on it, so that we can deliver that service with the best price quality. So we're using the community's resources in the right way. So I actually believe that we have taken care of the employees in a very good way in the transition here, taking into account the age, seniority and the business transfer. So we've followed the rules that are set in the working life for this kind of transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e814	In the description that VG had of the relationship of Shield camp in the inner Troms, the chief defenseman says: "It was so dirty there that it could be dangerous to work there." He also said that ‘there was so much dust in some electrical equipment that it posed a fire hazard’. There was a new lock yesterday – I don't know the result – if it doesn't change. Hopefully that's changed. My first question is a yes or no question: has it been operationally meaningful that several halls have been connected to Skjold clay in the inner Troms? And then to the next, which requires a few more words: the Department of Defense has itself gone away from having a private solution to its privacy. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e828	I have no reports that it has had operational significance that the two halls were closed. What I've been told is that you were dissatisfied with the quality, and you went to the step of shutting them down. The cleaning supplier has now cleaned up, and the halls are open again. As far as the transition from the ISS to the Departments' Security and Service Organisation was concerned, as I have said earlier in this Chamber, that you were not satisfied with the deliveries from the ISS in the department. You were negotiating with the ISS. The Ministry of Security and Service Organisation, which has the other departments, could also deliver to the Ministry of Defence under competitive conditions. So DSS could deliver the same line with what ISS had done, and it was a good solution to make a transition to the Ministry's security and service organisation. Then you get one organization that takes all the departments, and that gives many answers to many challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e835	When the Ministry of Defence has the freedom to make such choices, it should be possible for other parts of the Defense to have the same freedom. So will the Minister of Defense then see to it that the different parts of the defence outside the Ministry of Defence itself will be able to assess whether there are other offers than those that are currently available, i.e. whether there may also be solutions where one gets more firmer addition than one has today, whether it is possible to obtain? Today, you have no possibility of doing anything but getting everything out on offer. When the Council of State says that one found that it could be a competitive price, I assume that DSS did not deliver the offer in the same way as ISS did. Do you now want to give freedom to the rest of the Defense Force to do the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e840	Now I am not quite sure – so DSS delivered a calculation that allowed them to take over, under the same conditions as ISS had, so it was under competitive conditions. In addition, the advantage was that they had the other departments. Then it also simplifies that they have the Ministry of Defence. For the other areas – well, area 10, Shield, will be submitted from 1 January, and there will be many models that can be expected for how to deliver it. First of all, suppliers, cleaning services, deliver an offer to take the services, and then we'll see what kind of result we get on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e847	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e852	It is necessary to take the floor again, having regard to the comments of the representatives of Elvenes and Geir Hågen Karlsen. First to Geir Hågen Karlsen, through the President: There is no one who needs to doubt that the Norwegian Labour Party has supported Norwegian business. We have facilitated Norwegian business in all areas of society throughout the post-war period, and it is a success factor for value creation in Norway. So a general attack on the relationship of the Norwegian Labour Party with private business, as he carried out from the pulpit here, I react sharply. It is simply not necessary to pursue that kind of political suspicion, because it is incalculable and false. But the serious thing is that he relied on himself – and that's why I'm taking it up – his place in the Defence College, and then I have to say from the Parliament's pulpit that I hope the views he represents are not representative of the Defence College. The relationship he exposed through his post was about the fact that the bus is taken care of with regard to the employees, so they get to be satisfied. It is, of course, revealing, and it is very revealing in view of what representatives of the Progress Party think about the relationship with Norwegian workers. The reality of the matter is that many hundreds of employees, especially women in the low-paid professions in the defence sector, have been affected by the decision being taken today to deal with the Stortinget. That is the reality. And then you say you're doing this for pragmatic reasons. Yes, if there's a pragmatism that you stand by, you get to do it. But that's this pragmatism I hope is not representative of the Defence College. I would not have withdrawn this, because I did not know that the representative concerned was associated with the Defence College. But as he claimed it as a background of competence, it is entirely relevant for me to say what I am now saying. I'm tempted to say that I'm going to try to check if the Defence University has the attitude to the relationship in Norwegian working life that was exposed through the insertion of the representative Karlsen. The same is true in so far as the post to the representative of the Rivers was about, but it was in a different way, because he says we have to be pragmatic about saving money. Yes, I fully agree with that – of course we should be. No one wants to waste taxpayers' money in any way. But I know some examples in the Defense where it has actually happened, how humility is not great when it comes to receiving criticism. I have lived with this for many years, and here I have at least considerable competence and knowledge of this very thing. I could mention a lot of examples during a full article that misplanning and misimplementation in the defense have actually wasted taxpayers' money to a significant extent. So I'm in on that discussion, but I'm not in on that on the basis that it's going to affect the workers in the defense. For what this is all about here – and that is what the representative of the Elves said – is that in many ways it is natural that the Workers' Party is skeptical about this, because it is in cooperation with employees' organisations. - Yes, thank you for that. It is employees' organisations that create the stability of defence in very many areas, which are loyal in all areas of the defence business. So that's where we can really create a defense. It was either the representative Lysbakken or the representative Moxnes that said – and I agree – that we must bet on people, not on the market, in order to create an effective defence. It turns out that this combination, when made wrong, makes the defence ineffective and expensive – and the money goes out of the defense and into private actors. That's what it's all about, and I don't think anyone with great seriousness or honesty inside can claim that the Workers' Party is not the Defence Friend. We've been through all these years. But it is absolutely imperative that we take care of the people of Defense, whether it is the order or the reindeer. That is what has not happened in this case – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e873	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e878	Bente Olsen and Inger Løvlien are two ladies who, for many, many years, have cleaned up the defense, have been in charge of the community – at a very low wage, it must be said – with all the other cleaners this year after year. So thanks for that, from the Advancement Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, was a fury of their retirement. They'll lose about 1 million. kr in pension because of what has been done by the civil parties. State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen does not share the concerns of these two reindeers. He has both a rich and fine salary and a very good and solid pension – like the other politicians who determine their own pay and working conditions, which the cleaners do not have the same pleasure in being able to decide for themselves. That it is difficult for a government council from the Right to realize that it can be a big problem and perhaps deal with psychologically for two low-paid workers to lose 1 million. kr in pension, that it is difficult to understand it for a Right-State Council, yes, I understand that very well. You're standing where you're sitting, like you're saying in good Norwegian. But it is possible for others in this room to innovate that those who pay the price of privatisation are workers, the ones who do the job. They get the bill through lower pay and a broken pension – and I think that is shameful. I would like to ask for a clear answer from the Council of State to a question. I would really like to ask for a guarantee that no agreement has been reached with private companies that they will take over maintenance work that is currently being done internally in the defence, without the unions for the employees being informed or taken on board before such a decision has been taken. I want a guarantee from the Council of State that this has not been done until now in the case of maintenance in the defence, and that no such agreements will be concluded without the trade unions being informed about this in advance. The two questions I would like to ask the Council of State to draw on the list of speakers in order to give a clear answer to this room and to those who are listening to us out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e887	This matter concerns whether we are going to use the defence budget at the pointed end and equip the defense to do what the defense is going to do. It is also about respect for taxpayers, so that we use public resources properly. The representative Kolberg thought he was a great defender of business, but I can repeat the facts that I and others have been in earlier today. In the municipality of Oslo, there are recommunerations of kindergartens, care for the elderly, home care, cleaning, cooking, etc. A comprehensive campaign has been carried out in this area, which costs taxpayers a lot of money. As far as defence is concerned, we are debating cleanness today, but it concerns a wide range of other areas – workshop, logistics, which in the autumn exercise proved to be critically important both for us and for our allies, or to use an example from one of the last days, a SAS plane, which we had been committed to bringing children to Syria. We're totally dependent on this. Then the representative Kolberg went into a very personal phase against me. Let me repeat what I was inside instead. In this matter which we are debating today, the Ministry of Defence has followed laws, regulations, agreements and, moreover, all the rules of the labour market. That's what I said. In addition, the Ministry has extended exceptionally far beyond these laws, regulations and agreements in order to give the oldest better status. He didn't think it was good for anyone from the Defense to think that this is okay, and it almost gets the representative Kolberg just standing by. When it came to my personal example, I mentioned that at my workplace we have saved approx. 500 million. kr per year. The consequence for me and some others is that we have to work faster, better, smarter and find new solutions, but that means that we move a lot of money into that pointed end, so that we can buy ammunition, tanks, train home security or what we have to do prioritize. That's the right thing to do. And even if I take a small part of this burden of working faster and harder, I think it's okay. We've followed the rules of the game in this case, and then the opposition would have to use it to mark something, but this makes us get a better defense, we strengthen the pointed end, and on the way we've behaved decently towards everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e898	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e914	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e923	You wouldn't believe it, but it's actually not conversion that defends Norway. Nor are products that defend Norway. They're people. It's those who take care of our security every day, and all those who go out to defend us on our behalf out there. They do it because we ask them to do it. Then it is our responsibility to set them up when they come home. The person who takes care of those who protect us is the Ombudsman for the Defence. Their inspections and meetings held by the Ombudsman are essential if we are to get a proper picture of the situation of those responsible for protection, of personnel and of veterans. In his report, the ombudsman writes that they are well received, and that they experience a positive attitude from guardians and employees. They write that this shows that the defence sector takes the personnel as the most important resource seriously. I want to add that it also shows that the Ombudsman has high confidence, and that they have created the security needed to provide the feedback that does not necessarily come directly to the superiors or politicians. The ombudsman's supposed to be in favour of that. That security doesn't build itself. An example of a real picture of the situation is the quote from the Ombudsman that ‘the introduction of the NH90 helicopters is of many described as a scandal’. Saying it to the authorities when you're in Defense yourself is not just easy. Of course, it's not hard to disagree at all, but it shows that the Ombudsman has managed to build up a trust that makes it possible to talk to them properly and be honest about how the situation really is. If there's something that politicians need, there's direct messages from those who're out there to protect us, so I just want to give it to the Ombudsman. On the examination of the report, I would first like to stress that all the concerns raised by the Ombudsman are addressed, read, taken for information and shared, and all the observations are of great value to the Committee. At the same time, there is no tradition of questioning policy instruments to remedy the situation or remedy the treatment in the annual report itself. That is why the majority has not addressed the minority comments. This does not mean that we do not believe that it is sufficiently protective, but that political treatment is not here. The Ombudsman addresses various issues in his report, and the Committee has addressed what really concerns the Committee: repeated breaches of working time regulations, increased missions without the provision of personnel and, in particular, the precise wording of Haakons protection that ‘the level of ambition either needs to be reduced or more human resources needed’. We expect the government to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e938	First, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for a good report. In fact, as stated in the mandate, the Ombudsman shall respect the general human rights of defence personnel. Norway was at an early stage of its ombudsmanship, and now it is also necessary to look at whether the mandate of the Ombudsman is up-to-date, against today's defences and today's challenges. The report has some interesting findings. The whole thing is a very positive impression: motivated soldiers, high loyalty, very few punishments and a duty arrangement that creates a good reputation for the defense, even as far as the trustee system is concerned, which works very well. But then there are some findings that are interesting to follow up on. Firstly, the report points out that the welfare offer is now being reduced in some areas of Defence. After all, the defense was a pioneer in this field through the Defence Welfare Service. There was a clear idea that when such a large part of the youth school devoted one year to the homeland, and often had to serve in remote places, there would be a proper welfare offer. There has been a nobility mark at the Defense Department, and I hope that it will continue, so that the good welfare offer does not gradually become worse. It's interesting to see that the cashier's standard is now starting to rise to an acceptable level, and it's with respect to reporting in high time. Kaserner in Defense is a long way off built in the 1950s, and many of them have expired. Now the building standard is raised, it will be possible for both sexes to be able to live on the same barracks, and this should be the tip of the line in 2020. So there's another interesting finding in the report, and it's about this with sexual harassment. It appears that the interviews and feedback received by the Ombudsman did not capture this to such an extent as the survey carried out, the safety investigation, which identifies that in fact 16-17 pst. by the female guardians, they feel sexually harassed. In sum, this is a very interesting report. There are also clear follow-up measures, which governments take note of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e953	It's interesting to read the report from the Defence Ombudsman, and that's some point I want to highlight. The first is the obligation of protection, the importance of the protection and the first-time service being provided with a proper and necessary framework for a service of good health. There are also some points and recommendations to the Defence that are important to emphasise, because the protection obligation is of course important for the recruitment of the Defence, but it is also important for the defence status of the people. The fact that others have knowledge of the defence from the inside is good for the defence of the Norwegian people, so the duty of protection is important for many reasons. A joint committee is also busy and has noticed the concern of the Ombudsman on the ongoing conversion processes and how they affect the defence personnel. It may also be something for the Council of State to think carefully through, that when one has as many conversion processes in parallel as one has today – both when it comes to education, how one organizes the defence, and, of course, what is involved in the movement, creation and decommissioning of different bases – there is a great burden on individuals and on those who are involved in the defence. I would also like to point out that the current veteran plan expires in 2019. It is important that a new plan be put in place in good time before 2020, and then it begins to be urgent. Our veterans have to take good care of themselves, they have done an important job for the country, and they have to have a good framework for how the government is going to do it, but also how the Stortinge is going to do it. Then I would like to underline once again that increasing the number of conscientious objectors in the defence and having a balance between tasks and resources is underlined by the Ombudsman's subject, and I think there is a great deal to be taken into account. There has been a big point from the government's point of view that a balance now exists between tasks and the financial framework. You can read in the report that the Ombudsman's subject might not be quite the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e964	In the reporting by the Office for Defence, there are several worrying issues about how Norwegian veterans from foreign missions are taken care of when they come home. One concern is the increasing number of refusals of claims and the government's broken commitments that limitation should not be used as a basis for rejecting such applications. I would like to point out that the legal director of the Ministry of Defence at the national meeting of the Swedish Association SIOPS on 25 March 2017 said that if it is concluded that the applicant is entitled to compensation, no limitation shall be used. We are told about matters where limitation is used as a basis for refusal. SIOPS has disclosed the reasons for a rejection of the complaint in case 9/2017: ‘It appears likely that the complainants would have had a positive outcome if he had made a claim at a long earlier stage.’ When Red asked written questions about this, we were told that the government has not decided any practice regarding the use of custody, despite the fact that in June 2017, the Department told SIOPS that they were working with a letter to instruct us about this. That means that the Council of State does not stand at his department's assurance, and that he has led soldiers and veterans behind the light in terms of their right to compensation. And while the government spends – after two years they haven't done well to finish writing about the practice of parenting – it's veterans with psychological damage suffering unnecessary overload. Red is against sending Norwegian soldiers into US-led war experiments, but we are crystal clear in our support of the veterans who are coming home hurt – that is, against what the government is doing. Today, we are promoting proposals that limitation should not be used to reject compensation for those who suffer psychological damage in foreign operations. Not long ago, we got a pass on our proposal that even veterans injured in operations abroad after 1 January 2010 will be entitled to appeal in damages cases. That's good, but if the veterans are to get a full count of that impact, the government has to keep the promises that they themselves have given to the veterans. I therefore expect full support for the Red's proposal, which I am therefore referring to, and which will be voted on today at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e989	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e994	Let me start by thanking the Ombudsman for focusing on many important issues. In 2019, three years have passed since the first women covered by the general duty of protection met in Defense. I am of the clear opinion that the reform has been a success. The proportion of women is increasing, and both women and men thrive well in the Forewarn. This situation has given us a basis for further increasing the proportion of women and the diversity of defence. The government has recently decided on a target of a share of both sexes in the war school and command trainings of at least 30 p.m. It is my hope that this will have a positive impact on culture and attitudes, and that it will facilitate even greater diversity in defence. It will contribute to the appearance of defence as a modern and attractive job attracting the skills necessary to enhance operational capability. Work is in progress on adapting the cases to those covered by the first-time protective service. The defence's need for renewal and new barracks are largely addressed in the long-term investment plans. I am pleased that the committee and the committee highlight the importance of a good and comprehensive solidarity. One of the measures implemented by the Defence is the revision of the Defence Service Regulations. The rules of procedure shall provide guidance and requirements for the provision of welfare in all departments. The provision of continuing training shall be ensured through online solutions. The defence also works to improve the provision of career guidance. The content of services is continuously improved in line with the national offer. The Government takes a serious view that there are breaches of the working time provisions of the guardians of the initial service. The defence works to identify causes and will take action. I have clear expectations that the defense will find good solutions that will take care of the staff in the initial service. The defence also reviews the number of guardians to be conscripted and will assess whether this is sufficient to meet the defence needs. A sufficient number of soldiers and proper personnel are essential for the defence to be able to perform its duties. The government takes the results of the investigation into bullying and sexual harassment in the Defense, very seriously. Bullying and sexual harassment affect both employees and guardians of both sexes. At the same time, this is particularly true of younger staff and women. The investigation shows that the defence has not had sufficient knowledge of the extent of critical and illegal behaviour. It is very important that the defence ensures that unacceptable conditions are made known – and that they are addressed. The defence sector has undergone several major and important conversion processes in recent years. Still, there is a lot of work to be done. The changes in defence have been necessary to achieve a sustainable defence structure and to increase operational capability. The government will look at how the structure can become more flexible and persevering in its work on a new long-term plan. As an employer, the head of defence is responsible for ensuring that all employees are properly cared for. I trust that he – and the other Heads of Defense – will take this responsibility very seriously. Finally, since I arrived at Stortinget, veterinary work has been and has been a priority matter for me, and it is for the government. I am therefore pleased that the Ombudsman can also be held responsible for that part of the portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1013	The scientific work of the Ombudsman is unavoidable. Document 5 for 2017 agreed that the Ombudsman should also become an ombudsman for the veterans. I am pleased that the Council of State also enjoys it, but what is missing is an extended mandate and an instruction. The Defence Ombudsman works as if this already exists – conscientiously and committed. I just want to ask that this be done quickly. In the debate there are several people who have mentioned the study on sexual harassment and bullying in the Defence. It is not during this reporting period, but the Committee has nevertheless unanimously chosen to stress the importance of the work on which it is based in order to avoid such events and also to comment on some of the text. There is a constant reference to ‘improving conflict management procedures that can lead to bullying and harassment’. The Committee will put forward that quote because we are concerned that a bullying or harassment case does not necessarily happen only if there is a conflict there. It is a good idea to be both harassed and bullied without having added up to it yourself. That's why the committee wants this to be taken seriously in the work, so that you can also see the invisible bullying and harassment in the defense, which is not so easy to deal with. Several have been involved in the theme of conversion. It's quite obvious that the defense is suffering from a conversion phatigue. It's not on motivation, it's not on will, but more in all sectors are warning that they're worried that this is in the way of doing what they're actually supposed to do. We have to guard against the fact that politicians want to appear as if they want to do something about the Defense, stand in the way of those who are actually there and are going to do a job every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1024	The representative of Moxnes was completely unexplained about what reciprocal NATO obligations actually entail. I guess you can hardly wait for anything more of a party that is both in favour of NATO and towards the United States. What made me take the word was a point that time did not allow in the previous article. There was an important finding in the report. The report says that the Defense recruits high-level soldiers, who are highly motivated, relatively many from densely populated areas in Norway and have a professional background. There is a situation that needs to be looked at and that should not be reinforced. It is well to note that you are recruiting motivated young people with good grades, but the defence needs guardians with a different type of background. You must not get into the situation you now have in Finnmark, where you cannot fill the HV positions because you do not have recruits from Finnmark. That is why six months of protection is now imposed in the garrison in Porsangs, so that they can have longer service time in the HR force in Finnmark. This is a finding that the Ombudsman's report warns of, and one has to look at, so that this development does not take place in other parts of the country too, because then we can have a problem with the setup.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1034	I just want to briefly say something about the follow-up of veterans, since we've taken it into consideration, and since it's come up in the debate here. There's no doubt – and let me acknowledge it first – that there's been a lot of positive happening in recent years in connection with the follow-up of our veterans. There has been a broad, cross-political commitment to it, and important measures have been taken both under the previous government and under this government. But there are still a lot of concerns and too many reports coming from the veterans' organizations, about people who aren't being followed up the way they should. We believe it is particularly important that municipalities are better shoeed to follow up on their part of the responsibility, and that there is an increased effort to transfer competences from health services to municipalities. There is also a gap between the picture often drawn in public documents of the state and that reported by the veterans' own series, where there are still too many of those who have served in international operations for Norway, which report, among others, that. mental problems that they do not receive good enough help to deal with. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal that has been put forward by Mr Red in connection with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1045	In conclusion only: the defence Ombudsman is subject to the Stortinget. It is the presidency that now looks at the mandate and on the possible inclusion of veterans as a responsibility for the Ombudsman. One of the first things I reported to Stortinget when I became the Council of State was that I believe it is a good grip. With regard to the MOST study, there are two things to say about it: I'm just as concerned as many others about the description that comes from the organisations in the case of MOST, but I also think the defense should have the honor that they saw a problem. They rigged a completely separate survey adapted to the operation of the defense to reveal reality, gaining knowledge of this. I believe it is now working well, but all bullying is a management responsibility, quite simply. Now it is working well to point out the leaders and also to create the required warning procedures. Conversion is always demanding, but I don't think we're going to create the impression that the change in defence is only driven by politicians with a willingness to change. Most of it is described in the Chief of Defense's professional-military council. He sees it as necessary to build a defense for the future. We all agree that it is demanding to implement it, and we are following the situation. Very many people work very well with the conversion. Finally, for the Swedish work: I fully agree with the Lightbox; it is a work we can decorate with, because it has been very well worked. The organisations worked the matter out. Then it was brought up politically, and it has been working very well through several governments, throughout all the ten years I have been a national politician. There has been continuity in this work. We're going to keep taking this work on. We are working on this being taken seriously by the counties and municipalities, which I believe is an important part. We are working to establish a knowledge cluster that doctors can also take advantage of when it comes to the health of the veterans, and we have a work to do to review the compensation schemes that have been in place. There are many questions about the veterans and about the compensation schemes. We look at how this compensation scheme – which is very good – has worked. Then we'll see if there's anything that needs to be adjusted, and we'll come back with these things if we find it necessary. In short, we have not reported that any veterans have received a refusal to claim compensation because of their limitation. It's a more complex image than that. But, as I said, we get this sample to also look at that part when they're going in and look at the compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1058	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1091	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Quiet! [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1102	Then we will continue: the President will also propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be given an opportunity to reply to comments by members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1113	We'll take a break until the gallery is empty. Expressed after a short stay
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1120	Then Stortinget is ready to continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1125	First of all, I would like to thank you for your cooperation in the matter. The current statistical law was signed in 1989. At the same time, the statistical production framework has changed significantly, both nationally and internationally. The Norwegian statistical system is now largely integrated into the EU’s statistical system. A single committee agrees to the approval of the EEA Committee's decision on a regulation amending the statistical regulation. This amending Regulation aims to contribute to strengthening the principle of national statistical agency professional independence and to strengthening the quality of European and Norwegian official statistics. It is good to have a new statistical law now. It is a strength that there is a broad agreement between the main lines of the new law. There will now be a multi-annual national programme for official statistics, involving users of statistics, among others. by making proposals for programmes available to the public. A large majority support the adoption by the King of State Councils, but emphasises the importance of having open and wide processes in developing the program and of having a high quality. A single committee stresses that the requirement of professional independence shall apply to all production of official statistics, including those carried out in establishments, where the exercise of the activity is otherwise not professionally independent. There are two areas in particular which have been the subject of the public debate on new law: whether we are still going to have a two-part social mission, and whether the professional independence is adequately enshrined in new law. It is not unproblematic to continue to have a two-part societal task, both government and analysis and research. The Committee believes that the benefits and benefits of maintaining a two-part role in society are greater than the disadvantages, which also had great support among most hearing aids. The SSB shall be an independent institution. The head of the national statistical office shall act independently during the performance of his professional duties. In a new law, the board is replaced by a council, and it should be broadly composed and independent. There is a slight difference of opinion in the Committee on the number of members of the Board of Governors, but there is a majority for seven members, and I expect it to be so. The requirement of professional autonomy implies that statistical evaluations and questions are to be addressed independently of political or service instructions. Thus, it will not be possible for authority to instruct an out-of-office agency on issues that fall under the professional independence of the production of official statistics, or other quality and publication requirements for such production. In order to underline independence, if the SSB considers a task to be professionally unresponsible or not feasible, they shall be able to reject the task. The SSB shall have access to all relevant information, including health information. It's important. At the same time, it is important that the SSB does not grant other access to health information in contravention of any reservations. More information is required here, and the rules surrounding this will be incorporated into the regulations. It is essential to be able to compare over time with high quality. Even if the SSB can reject assignments, the Labour Party believes that if the SSB believes that the method choices have a major impact on the results, or that the results are misleading, this should be pointed out. It is important that the public should be aware of both why and how the choice of methods turns out and affects the outcome. Then it doesn't think it should point to – no: it should point to. The Labour Party also believes that there should be legal representation in the Council. An arrangement in which they add participants will be a continuation of current practice, which has worked well. Subsidiary representation will provide the Council with a wider range of information and will improve the ability of the Council to address issues such as: its ombudsman function. So it's a paradox that despite the fact that the Granavolden platform says that one should work for the relocation of jobs from Oslo, the distribution between Kongswinger and Oslo is not followed up. There's a difference between word and action. The government party will not support the support of SSB Kongswinger in terms of yearwork and content. It's eye-catching. I take up all the proposals where the Labour Party is a co-sponsor. The working party shall vote for proposal No. 4, from the Center Party, SV, the Environment Party Dei Green and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1158	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1163	Statistical central agency is an important national institution, and good statistics are crucial in a society such as Norway. It is an important basis for us to have a well-functioning society; it is important for us to be able to make good decisions, both good decisions in large and good decisions, which can have a major impact on every citizen in Norway. Therefore, it is incredibly important that a person has high confidence in the statistics produced officially in Norway, that it has good confidence, and that one has well-established institutions to maintain statistical production in Norway. Statistics directors come and go, but the statistics are to be passed. That is why I fully agree with what has been said. The rapporteur says here as regards the professional independence of the Statistical Central Bureau. It is incredibly important that no questions are asked about it. At the same time, it is also important that the Central Statistical Office operates within some framework decided by elected representatives. It is not that, for example, new directors should have personal projects to change such an important institution. No, such an important institution shall be based on long-term, neutral and accurate information and on the construction of long time series. It must be based on the needs of the Norwegian community, the production of statistics that provide insight into the Norwegian community and that are relevant to Norwegian conditions. Of course, we should also participate in international cooperation on statistics, so that Norwegian statistics can be compared with and included in international statistics, including: on a European level, but we must always take as a starting point what serves Norwegian conditions. Every time we talk about whether we are going to be involved in further international cooperation, one has to ask itself whether this will make the statistical services better or not. One must also ask questions at each crossroads about how to organise statistical work, and constantly try to reduce bureaucracy. For example – in the case on which the Storting will decide today, it is estimated that one will increase the red tape with the changes that are taking place. What one should work for is that through political decisions and good organisation, one helps to reduce bureaucracy. So here again, from today's government, there is an example of a case that has helped to increase bureaucracy. That is why I think it is both disappointing and strange that the other parties cannot participate in the proposal of the Central Party that one should go through both our national legislation and how we organise it nationally, and also how we participate in European cooperation to help reduce bureaucracy and not increase it, as is the case with this matter here. So to what is going on with the statistical programmes and how to adopt them: the multiannual statistical programmes are just an important framework and proper management tool for statistical production. It is therefore important that the elected representatives, by decision of the Grand Duchy, decide on the multiannual statistical programmes, should not move into enclosed spaces, that there should be no decision taken either within the Statistical Central Bureau or within the bureaucracy of the government apparatus. It is the elected representatives who should ultimately lay down the framework for statistical production, ensure that there is confidence, that there is neutrality, that good statistics on time are provided. With this, I would like to present the proposals of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1179	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1184	The central statistical agency has an important role for society. Since its establishment in 1876, the SSB has contributed to providing both politicians and people with the most overview of what Norway looks like, in figures and statistics. The SSB keeps track of, inter alia: How many we are in Norway, what money is spent on, price trends, pollution, nature, land and economic differences. The SSB is an important part of our common knowledge base and national memory, and in order to carry out this important societal task, the SSB is completely dependent on trust in society. It's been in the SSB for a long time, and this is a trust we have to make sure that we also stay in the future. An important part of the discussion about the SSB has recently focused on the professional independence of the SSB. One of the concerns that has been raised by several teams, not least in the wake of the resignation of former SSB director Christine Meyer, is just about the professional independence of the SSB. This proposition foresees that the Ministry may instruct the SSB to carry out ‘calculations on specific models or with specific assumptions and on overall methodological choices’. Furthermore, as part of the governance dialogue, it states that the Ministry may ‘restrict the scope and manage the thematic device of the mission financing’. While there may be good reasons for such governance, it is essential that this is done with sufficient transparency. Disadvantages arise quickly due to the fact that the Ministry can manage the operation of the SSB. For example, former research director of the SSB, Kjetil Telle, described in a consultation of the Control and Constitutional Committee in January 2018 how analyses of economic benefits and disadvantages of immigration are strongly influenced by the models used. It is therefore important that the SSB draw attention to it if the choice of methods has a significant impact on the results. It is also good that the SSB has the power to reject orders if they consider the assignment to be professionally irresponsible, not feasible or for resource-requiring purposes. The size must be closely monitored to ensure that the professional independence of the SSB is not challenged. Then the government proposes to replace the board of directors of the SSB with a board of directors. Unfortunately, the majority today will not take advantage of the opportunity to ensure that the Council is given a wider and better representation. SV suggests two handles to ensure it. Firstly, SV proposes that the Council should be extended to 15 members instead of just 7. Where seven people are often a good size of a government, advice for the better could be greater. In this way it can be ensured that more votes from, for example: the research sector, stakeholder organisations, trade unions and environmental movements are given the opportunity to be represented, in order to ensure both the professional quality and the societal mission given to the SSB. Secondly, SV proposes that the staff of the SSB be represented in the Council, with representatives elected by and among the staff. This will strengthen the function of the Council. The Council shall not have a separate secretariat, and it will depend to a large extent on the information it receives from the administration. Employee representation will improve access to Council information. Staff members have a special understanding of the day-to-day functioning of the SSB. This is an important point of view for the Council to discuss the effectiveness and quality of the work of the SSB. It is incomprehensible that the transition from board to board should be used as an opportunity to remove the employees’ representatives from the management of the SSB. With this I address the SV's proposal in the Innst. 342 L.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1205	The representative of Solvency Skagvoll Foss has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1210	Let me first thank the Committee for its work on the government's proposal for a new law on official statistics and the Statistical Central Bureau. Official statistics are our common factual basis and form the basis for public vocabulary, for politics and for decisions elsewhere in society. It has been important for the government to provide a solid framework for official statistics. The legislative proposal states that the SSB will continue to be the central statistical authority in Norway. Furthermore, the SSB, as today, shall have a two-part social mission. The second part of the social mission is to carry out research and analysis aimed at the Storting, the Government, the social partners and the public. I am pleased that the wording of the Financial Committee gives broad support to the proposal for a new statistical law. The SSB and other producers of official statistics shall be independent in the production and dissemination of statistics. This has been a very central premise for legal work and follows from the EU statistical regulation. We have to be sure that those who produce the statistics have not been instructed by politicians or others. I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the establishment of a multi-annual national programme for official statistics and that the decision of the statistical programme is added to the King in the Council of State. The programme shall have a clear, professional anchoring and both producers and users of statistics shall be involved in the design. This is ensured by the proposed statistical programme by the SSB after consultation with other statistical producers. The proposal shall then be sent to a wide public hearing. The design of the programme shall be transparent. The legislative proposal provides access for the SSB to impose disclosure obligations and to provide access to information obtained to research institutions and public authorities. The legislative proposal extends the scope of who should be able to access information, compared to today. At the same time, important data protection concerns need to be addressed. The European Statistical Regulation also limits the access of others to information obtained by the SSB. We believe that we have found a good balance between these important considerations of the legislative proposal we are presenting. By including restrictions on access in regulations, you will be able to assess and, where appropriate, adjust them as you learn and gain experience. I welcome the Committee's support for the government's proposal to replace the board with a council. The Council will not have decision-making powers. Staff representatives are not natural in a council. In order to ensure that the Council has information on the views of employees on administrative matters, the Ministry proposes that views of employees’ organisations should be accompanied by case documents. The normal thing in central government is to have neither a board nor a board. However, the rights of employees are well respected by the Main Agreement of the State and they will also be in the SSB. With this bill, the government also follows up the decision of the Stortinge from last autumn: ‘The size assumes that before major changes are made to the SSB, including the follow-up to the Statistical Regulatory Committee, an open democratic debate, including a separate matter for the Stortinget, shall be opened.’;» The legislative proposal proposes that detailed rules be laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. The contents of the most central regulations are already mentioned in the proposition. The Government considers that the determination of such regulations should be made in accordance with the normal procedure for dealing with regulations, without being submitted to the Stortinget. The Government further requests, in its proposal, the consent of the Storting to the approval of the EEA Committee’s decision on the regulation amending the statistical regulation. This will be included in the regulation of the law. The regulatory home opens up the possibility of including subsequent amendments to the Regulation. If there are amendments to the regulation requiring the consent of the Grand Duchy, it will also be promoted as its own case in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1254	The district representatives from the government party have traveled around and have promoted this with the relocation of state jobs as a major cause for winning. This is also mentioned in the Granavolden Declaration. So it's this in word and action. Following up the 40/60 decision on Kongsvinger should have been, of course, if one thinks anything about the relocation of jobs. Is the Council satisfied that Kongswinger loses in relation to Oslo when it comes to annual work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1259	Let me first say that the SSB has two head offices, one in Oslo and one in Kongsvinger. The relative distribution of employees between Oslo and Kongsvinger has remained quite stable since the 1990s. In recent years, the SSB has carried out major reorganisations without particularly affecting the distribution. I can assure you that there are no plans that will change this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1264	The distribution of employees between and activity in Kongsvinger and Oslo gives the Council of State in its previous reply the impression that it is following the objectives set for the allocation of jobs. But that is not the case today. Kingswings do not have the number of employees and the activity foreseen by the Storting. What concrete steps will be taken to strengthen the Kongswinger office in line with what Stortinget had in mind in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1269	It's not just the Stortinge who wanted it. I have also been concerned that the division of labour between Oslo and Kongsvinger should be handled in a good way. As I said in my previous answer, the distribution between Oslo and Kongswinger has been very stable since the 1990s. With regard to the reorganisation work that has been carried out, I have been clear that Kongswinger should not in any way be weakened, but rather be a strong part of the SSB's business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1274	The environment on Kongswinger is in a completely different situation and has given very different feedback on the future of the important environment of competence that lies there. But let me do another question for follow-up. What is contained in this proposal is, of course, increased bureaucracy through a new regulation. The Centre Party has proposed that an existing regulatory framework to reduce red tape should be reviewed. What is the background for the Minister of Finance to feel that it is not reasonable to reduce bureaucracy in statistical production?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1281	This government council is generally concerned with facilitating the least-needed bureaucracy, and that we have well-functioning public agencies that get their job done. In the bill that we are dealing with today, it is very clear that much of the intention of this cooperation is to facilitate a clearer division of responsibilities and less duplication of work. It speaks on its side because we get a much more efficient use of the resources. On the other hand, I think it might be a bit demanding to criticise the fact that there are high demands for both quality and quality follow-up of the work to be carried out by the SSB. I think that is actually a prerequisite for all of us to have confidence in the work they do. In addition, these changes will help reduce the burden on industry. At least I thought that was something we could agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1289	What the government is doing through the so-called red tape and efficiency reform is, of course, demanding all agencies to improve efficiency and reduce red tape. It is then important that the institutions closest to the government and the state council themselves focus on reducing red tape. So when the Central Party proposes both to be able to change the legislation we have in cooperation with the EU, to reduce red tape, and to reduce red tape in today's legislation, the government parties are opposed. Why do government parties and governments oppose reducing bureaucracy in statistical production?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1294	The government is fully systematic and focused on reducing red tape at all levels of government. Of course, this also applies to the SSB. But, as I have just explained, now that we are in agreement with this regulation, on the one hand, it is about several measures that contribute to efficiency improvement, on the other hand, about greater requirements for quality. I believe that we are very well aware that what is produced by the SSB is of good quality and not least that it is designed for good quality follow-up. I think it's a little strange that Sigbjørn Gülsvik has now become a very warm defender of the ABE reform. I guess I haven't seen much support for the kind of efficiency measures on the part of Stortinget, but if the Center Party is coming after, it's very nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1301	The Government proposes that the employees should not be represented in the Board of Governors. Thus, employees do not have a formal representation in this central body. This means that the Council will not have access to important information that employee representatives can provide. I wonder why the Council of State believes that the staff should not be represented in the Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1306	I tried to explain it in my article. It is not natural to have employee representatives in a council, and it is not very common to have advice or board of directors. However, I have been concerned that the views of staff members will benefit the Council, and therefore we have arranged for their views to follow administrative matters to be dealt with in the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1311	It is good to hear that the Council of State will ensure that the knowledge and perspectives of employees are part of the discussion in the Council. I wonder how it's going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1316	We have explained this on our own by laying down a procedure so that all the views of the employees will follow the matters that go into the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1321	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1328	It is good that all batches see the value of incorporating the statistical regulation into the EEA Agreement. It continues our cooperation with the EU countries in the field of statistics and makes it possible to compare our figures with those of neighbouring countries. It is described in a special note as essential that you can cooperate with other countries, including the United Kingdom. to produce comparable statistics. Yes, it is even said that it would be in Norway's interest to be able to continue statistical cooperation with European countries in selected areas. It is then beneficial for countries to keep statistics on the basis of the same professional principles. I really believe that an overall committee fully agrees with this. In fact, the new Regulation will also make a positive contribution to clarifying the professional independence of statistical authorities and to enhancing the quality of both Norwegian and European statistics. This is, of course, the relationship we have placed great emphasis on in the work on new statistical laws. The fact that European legislation is based on the same principles of professional independence is a strength. We can rely as much on the statistics of our neighbouring countries as on our own statistical agency. That higher quality may require higher staffing, I find it difficult to be renamed to bureaucracy. We think it's about increasing quality. It is good that there is a unanimous committee that says yes to include the regulation in the EEA Agreement. Then it's a little funny that the Center Party in the Inner. 343 S agree to include the statistical regulation in the EEA Agreement, while the Finnish lot. 342 L of the Statistics Act is contrary to Section 21, which is just about implementing the same EEA Act. Otherwise, we note that no one from the government parties has reason to take the floor in this debate. I will warn against such an attitude. You know you have a majority in the Chamber, you get your decisions through, but not participating in the debate can quickly appear to be a bit arrogant, even though there is a broad consensus on a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1345	New statistical law is important for the further development of official statistics in Norway. Today's framework needs modernisation and equipment for future developments. When I take the floor, it is to emphasise that the Central Bureau of Statistics has had and will continue to play a central role in this development – and therefore in the Norwegian model of society. This proposal continues the two-part social mission of the SSB. The Agency shall be the central statistical authority and carry out research and analysis. With statistics and research, the SSB is involved and makes the necessary premises for Norwegian policy design, societal debate, wage formation and societal development. It is important for the Workers' Party to demonstrate that the professional independence of the SSB has helped to give statistical production a high degree of legitimacy to the authorities, to the social partners, to society and to the general public. This trust in analysis and statistics is absolutely fundamental. Therefore, when a new statistical law is adopted, we must make it clear from this pulpit that it is the clear intention of the legislator that the SSB is and remains a professionally independent institution. We need to be clear that the SSB, in both areas of its societal mission, must have the necessary independence in the performance of its tasks. There is reason to stress this, precisely against the debate that has been taking place in the media around the government's proposition and in the light of the uncertainty that emerged in the hearing. A single committee points out that the requirement of professional independence shall apply to all production of official statistics and that this requirement implies that statistical evaluations and questions are addressed independently of political or service instructions. It should also be noted that the SSB welcomes the new law and is of the opinion that it clarifies the professional independence of the SSB in line with international guidelines for official statistics. In conclusion, the Working Party will be able to develop the SSB in the context of new research, new models and professional development. The SSB’s key societal tasks include thorough professional assessments and broad lashings before major changes are made, whether in the area of SSB independence, modelling or research activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1366	There's a broad consensus on this, so you don't just have to take the word to do it, when you essentially agree. I believe that the Council of State has explained this in a very good way. I fully agree – statistics are our common factual basis. It is an important premise for the development of our society. Independence is also very important; it is widely agreed upon. Today's law dates from 1989, and statistical work has changed a lot over these 30 years. Only minor adjustments have been made before the promotion of this bill. I also think it is important to have the data produced by the SSB being important for research purposes. At the same time, privacy needs to be safeguarded in a safe and sound manner. The proposal proposes that research institutions and public authorities may apply for access to the data, but not others. The SSB shall not grant access to information obtained from health records. Furthermore, strict requirements are imposed for the use of the data only for statistical purposes, research and analysis, as laid down in the European Statistical Regulation. It is proposed that the professional secrecy of personal data be lifted after 100 years and for other data after 60 years, as currently provided by law. I am very pleased that you are clear and clear that you have strict privacy, because it is important for our citizens and also for the trust in this. It is a bit nice to listen to the representative from the Central Party, because suddenly he is very concerned that, together with the EU, we should look at opportunities to reduce bureaucracy. Bureaucracy is something this government has been concerned about, and the Progress Party is very concerned about, that we should look at how we can do things in a more efficient and sensible way. But it's not always that you have to vote in favour of a proposal to do what you always do, to see how we manage and use public resources in the best possible way. I very much look forward to the Central Party becoming more positive about the ABE reform and other reforms that can cut red tape. Often the opposite is true: you have a centre party that sits quietly in the boat and is opposed to everything that is about change, everything that is about making things more efficient and easier and fairer for society – what makes it possible to spend the money on the important tasks of providing good welfare services to the inhabitants of our country. I look forward to the Zenter Party starting to change course and agree that action is actually needed to ensure that we can use the money on what is important, namely to provide good welfare services and good arrangements for those who need it, and that we have the least possible bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1385	First to the fact that the Central Party, together with several other parties, has proposed to amend Section 21 of the Statistics Act: Yes, it should just be missing. The practice established is that a fairly comprehensive EU legislation can be included in Norwegian legislation without having been dealt with through an consent proposal in the Stortinget or through ordinary proceedings. We don't think that's right. We believe it is important that, when new EU legislation is introduced in the future, it should be subject to proper, serious and thorough democratic treatment. If there are only technical and minor things, the proposal also states that it can be done within the authority of the government under regulation. When we are going to commit ourselves to international commitments, and in some contexts there are also regulations to be implemented directly, it is actually important that we have a serious and proper treatment and assess the benefits and disadvantages of it. To the representative Hoksrud and what's going on in bureaucracy: what you've seen with today's government is that you cut services near people around Norway. There are cuts in the most basic services, while bureaucracy is not narrowing it. It is increasing day by day — especially the bureaucracy that is in the area around the government quarter and the big business building, the institutions that are closest to the government. That's where bureaucracy increases. The Police Directorate, on which the Progress Party in 2013 went to the elections to be held, has not been shut down. The number of employees has almost doubled. But can go through the directorate after the directorate – new supervision, new directorate, more bureaucracy. It's the same thing in this case. Of course, the quality of statistical production is to be achieved, but quality is to be maintained in all government activities, but it is still necessary to improve efficiency. It is much more important to give priority to the money for the most basic, namely the services near people — health services and a safe and accessible police — than to maintaining and increasing the number of jobs in statistical production. Yes, statistics are important, but we also need to focus on reducing bureaucracy. Where it is most important to reduce red tape, the efforts of the Progress Party in government are unfortunately to be defeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1395	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1426	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1435	First, thank you to the Committee on Cooperation in the Matters on Changes to the Securities Trading Act, etc. I want to explain briefly the main features of the proposition, the consent part and the law part and the setting. The Government requests the consent of the Storting to incorporate the Market Abuse Regulation and the prospectus regulation into the EEA Agreement. The latter is already included in the EEA Agreement, subject to the approval of the Storting, while in the case of the Market Abuse Regulation, prior consent is requested for inclusion based on a draft attached to the Proposition. The majority of the Committee supports this subject to the resubmission of the case to the Stortinget if a decision to include the market abuse regulation would differ significantly from the attached draft. Draft nominations have also been submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, which is associated with the nomination. It is proposed that the legislative amendments, which are a consequence of the incorporation of the two mentioned Regulations into the EEA Agreement, be implemented in the Securities Trading Act. The amendments mainly include provisions on market abuse and prospectuses, as well as new instruments of supervision, penalties and penalties for infringements of the Securities Trading Act. The amendments to those two Regulations form part of a major revision of EEA financial market legislation. The proposed changes to the laws are based on the work of the Swedish Securities Regulators Committee and the aim is a level playing field for financial operators in the EEA market, increased investor protection and maintaining the high level of confidence in the Norwegian capital market. The changes will make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to raise capital at a lower cost than today. With regard to the Market Abuse Regulation, new legislation will include provisions on insider dealing, market manipulation, illegal disclosure of inside information, etc. National rules prohibiting unfair commercial practices are continued. Furthermore, the Prospectus Regulation involves simplifications in comparison with the existing legislation in relation to prospectus requirements, with an obligation to draw up EEA prospectuses in the case of public offers of up to 5 million. to 8 million. euro. The current limit of the amount for drawing up national public offer prospectuses is maintained. It applies to offers between 1 million. and $8 million. euro. Such prospectuses shall continue to be registered in the Business Register. New administrative penalties and increased penalties for infringements are also introduced, including: the provision of sound commercial practices and the unlawful dissemination of inside information. And the Financial Supervisory Authority will subsequently have increased access to traffic data related to securities trading.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1454	When deciding on a new EU legislation coming into force, a decision must be made on what is reasonable and not sensible to accept from the Norwegian side and how to implement it in Norwegian law. The legislation we are talking about here, both through the prospectus regulation and the market abuse regulation, is an important piece of legislation, and it is a complex piece of legislation with potentially significant consequences for those who are going to follow up the legislation and for those who are responsible for complying with it in practice. Therefore, it is important that one ensures that the law, as it arises, is transparent. It is important to ensure that the law is comprehensible and it is important to ensure that the law is easily accessible. It's important for us as elected representatives, to assess whether what's being implemented makes sense. It is important for the administration to follow it up. It's important to the courts. And it is not least important for all the companies and individuals responsible for complying with the legislation in practice. What is related to the regulation is that an EU regulation should therefore apply directly in Norway. So it has to be adopted as a reference in the law. Norwegian law shall be referred to an EU regulation which the EU can amend at a later stage. Thus, the legal text does not say what the specific provisions are, but a reference to EU legislation. It is a way of implementing legislation which is very problematic and which makes it more difficult for those who are going to comply with the legislation to actually deal with it. It is not about what to accept and not accept as a Norwegian law, but about how to read from the law what are the obligations and how to amend the law in retrospect. It is also about information, important information, being available in Norwegian languages, and in this case, among others. important information first made available in retrospect in Norwegian. For example, the EEA adaptations being made are not available in Norwegian according to this proposition. Therefore, there is a need to ensure that we have clear laws in Norway. I would like to take up with it what the proposal of the Senterpartiet is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1467	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1472	In this proposition, the Government promotes proposals for changes to the rules on market abuse and securities prospectuses. The new rules correspond to expected EEA rules on market abuse and EEA regulations on prospectuses. Market abuse rules are central to the functioning of the market. Insider dealing and other market abuses weaken confidence in the securities market and the availability of capital to business. Under the new market abuse rules, several types of instruments and trading platforms will be covered. This will ensure safer trading also on market platforms other than regulated markets. Common EEA rules on prospectuses provide access to capital throughout the EEA territory without having to draw up more than one prospectus. The prospectus rules shall provide protection for investors in connection with public offers. Investors shall have access to the relevant information provided by providers. The drawing up of a prospectus also entails costs for the operators. One of the objectives of the revised EEA prospectus rules is to maintain investor protection while introducing simplifications in the prospectus requirements. Each country may, within a specified range, determine the amount threshold for the obligation to draw up EEA offer prospectus. The government proposes to increase the threshold in Norway from 5 million. EUR 8 million. euro. This will mean more efficient raising of capital. However, the Government considers that adequate information should continue to be required in the event of an offer to the public of more than 1 million. the euro and that such national prospectuses are generally made available by registration in the Business Register. The Government also promotes proposals for amendments to the rules on supervisory instruments and penalties for breaches of the Securities Trading Act. It is proposed, inter alia: new provisions on administrative penalties. Sufficient and timely means of supervision and penalties are necessary for effective enforcement. At the same time, it is important to ensure legal certainty. On this basis, a thorough review of the need for and regulation of instruments has been carried out, on the basis of guidelines from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Government asks the Storting to consent to rules that are important to maintain a high level of trust and efficiency in the Norwegian capital market. The functioning of non-discriminatory markets in the EEA is central to the efficient raising of capital by Norwegian operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1485	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1490	One of the things that lies within the issues to be addressed here is the issue of national prospectuses. It has been mentioned in consultation rounds, including: by the Brønnøsund Registers, where the Brønnøsund Registers have indicated that that system should only be maintained if cost-benefit analyses show that it makes sense. From the centre party we think it is a wise approach from the Brønn Island Health Registers. Then, earlier in this debate, we have recorded that the government parties claim that they are for things that they nevertheless vote against when it comes to the proposal of the Central Party. Is it the case that a department would also be in favour of removing the system of national prospectuses if, on the basis of a cost-benefit assessment, it turned out to be the most sensible?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1497	The government believes that investors should have sufficient information before offering more than 1 million. The euro is presented to the public. And as a basis for that position, the costs of drawing up national prospectuses are balanced against the interests of investors. It must necessarily be a discretionary assessment, and I believe that we have made a good balance in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1502	I would just like to have an answer – yes or no – to the following questions: If a cost-benefit assessment shows that it makes more sense to wind up the scheme with national prospectuses, will the government then have a positive attitude to do just that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1507	As I said, this is about balancing the costs of drawing up such a prospectus with regard to investors. So in a lot of cases you have to take that kind of balancing consideration, and I think the government is doing that in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1513	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1531	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1540	Let me start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in this matter, a matter which is a follow-up to a big message we dealt with here in Stortingen a few months ago. At the time, I said that it was good that the government made such a announcement before the bill, so that a broad political consensus on something as important as the central bank law and the other laws that we are changing and changing today was ensured. I believe that today too, and the Committee's position shows that there is broad agreement on the various proposals. The background to the proposal to deal with a new central bank law is that the central bank activity has changed significantly in recent years. The current central bank law was passed in 1985 and replaced the former law of 1892. So it's not every year that we deal with these issues. Norway's Bank is entirely central and fully instrumental to our country's financial infrastructure and to each of us – both as banks' banks, as currency and banknote presses, as a financial stabiliser, and not least for those of us who pay interest on loans we have, or who get interest on deposits we have. All of this stems from the seventh and last decisions of the Bank of Norway. This will continue to do in the future, but with a slightly different organisation. The government follows up on the announcement that the Storting treated earlier this year. A Trade Union Committee on Monetary Policy and Financial Stability is hereby set up to carry out monetary policy activities, which are currently part of the Governing Council. The Governing Council shall be enlarged by one member – until nine – and shall include the Governor, the two Central Bank Governors and six external members, all appointed by the King of the Council of States. The representativeness continues as at present, as opposed to what was proposed by the Gedrem Committee. An overall committee refers to the importance of representation in order to maintain democratic control of the bank. The discrepancy points between the position and the opposition in the setting show first and foremost how broad the consensus is in this case. Despite the view of an overall committee that the issuance of commemorative and commemorative coins is on the side of a central bank’s core business, the opposition is proposing today that the government present a legislative proposal which implies that Norway’s Bank continues to have a statutory obligation to issue commemorative coins and circulation coins with special features, although this is therefore outside the core business. There is a disagreement as to whether the Executive Director of the NBIM, the Oil Fund, is to be appointed on an annual basis or to be appointed by the Governing Council on a regular basis. Part of the opposition believes that the target law must apply to the Bank of Norway and all its activities and that the working language should be Norwegian throughout the business. It must also mean that Norwegian should be the working language of the offices in New York, London and Singapore, even if in an imaginary situation it was not to work Northmen there. In addition, the Swedish Environment Party, the Green Party and Red propose that the State Pension Fund Act should be amended to require the Fund to take account of climate and climate risks, as well as to work for reducing greenhouse gas emissions internationally. Fortunately, this majority does not get, and the responsible parties in this Chamber still believe that the oil fund should not be an instrument of foreign policy, nor of climate and environmental policy. That makes sense. With the new law, we guarantee the central bank and its business good conditions to do the job they're going to do, and I'm sure I'm with the whole committee when I say we appreciate the job the central bank and the central bank's offices are doing. That job they do on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1561	That is, as the rapporteur pointed out, and as in the examination of the communication in February, a broad consensus on the broad lines of the new central bank law. We are pleased that the Minister of Finance chose to change the wording of the second paragraph of the purpose paragraph, so that the consideration of high and stable production and employment is equated with the task of maintaining a stable monetary value and promoting stability in the financial system. We do not support the SV's proposal, the Greens/Reds Environmental Party, to impose on the central bank, through the purpose paragraph, a responsibility for the achievement of Norway's climate objectives and the necessary conversion in this way. That responsibility lies with us, on the table of politicians, although of course climate risk is an element that must also be included in the bank's assessments of the economic and financial prospects. There is one important point on which there is disagreement, namely the conditions of employment of the Executive Director of NBIM. The Ministry of Finance justifies the proposal for annual targets with the need for ‘rotation and reinvigoration’. ‘Rotation’ among whom? This is one of the most important jobs in this country. The Pension Fund delivers almost every five dollars to the State budget, and it accounts for the third largest source of income in our State budget after VAT and personal tax. The task of delivering such results is not suitable for ‘rotation’. At my discretion, there is an extra protection against dismissal in years. The governor shall have it because the bank shall be independent. The Executive Director of NBIM should be measured against performance requirements, on the ability to manage and develop the organisation, together with the Management Board. If the need for renewal arises, it is a task for the board to make the necessary change. It can also be seen in the opposite direction: What if the daily manager is able to withstand the load and deliver good results? Why in the world should the board then not have the opportunity to keep it for more than 2 x 5 years? I hope that this kind of management thinking will not also express the demands of the Ministry of Finance to the new central bank board in its responsibility for managing the fund. The overall competence of the Governing Council must now be significantly more focused on what will be its main task, namely the management of the pension fund, the competence and experience of asset management in international markets and the measurement, management and control of risks. Through the instructions of the Norwegian Bank’s Board of Directors, the Ministry of Finance must also focus on the development of the SPU’s organisation and administrative practices by the Board of Directors and regularly informs of its assessments of the risk profile of financial markets and of the international economy. The greater the proportion of the government budget that depends on the return of the pension fund, the more important is the risk management of the fund. It must also be reflected in the reporting requirements of the Board of Directors to the Ministry of Finance and the Storting through the annual notifications. We support the law that the fund is to be invested abroad. It's been grounded all along. When you see several more or less imaginative suggestions about the use of the fund at home, we might consider legislating this principle. There is another disagreement that should be mentioned, namely the memory coins. The Government proposes that the bank's liability for the commemorative coins be removed, which was also pointed out by the case-rapporteur. It shall not mean, however, that the bank shall not be able to issue circulation coins bearing special character or to issue special denomination coins. We disagree with a number of hearings. We therefore propose, together with several parties, that the law on the bank's responsibility for this be continued. There is an additional recognition and a stronger symbolic force behind the commemorative coins if this is still enshrined in the Central Bank Act. I hope the finance minister can think through this one more time, as she did when she removed the word ‘or’ in the purpose paragraph. There is no shame in turning such a question either. With this I address the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind with others in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1595	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1600	It is the framework around a very important activity for Norway, a very important institution – Norway’s Bank – that we are dealing with today. In such cases, it is particularly important that an attempt to lay a foundation that can stand over time, through changing governments and the changing majority in this room. That's why, as I was also involved in dealing with the notification earlier this year, I want to acknowledge to the government that I have actually helped to have a process up against the various parties on the Stortinge in this matter – so that you can try to find broad compromises, which can stand over time, on the most important issues. It is important for the central bank and its governance, but it is not least important for Norway as a nation, and for how we manage the huge wealth we have, also through the instruments that lie in the central bank and the State pension fund – both the State pension fund Norway and the State pension fund abroad. It is not just through the law we have to deal with today, that one sets the framework for the money service and the money place in Norway. It is fundamental law, in the Constitution § 75c, that the Stortinget is to be ‘supervised by the State’. One of the things that the Central Party and I are very pleased that one has provided through the discussion of this matter is to make it clear that we are still to have a representative – which is an important follow-up to that very constitutional paragraph, by having a representative that will also have power and influence to follow its role as a supervisory and supervisory body – and that we are to ensure that the representation has a dialogue with the Stortinget. To the discussion about the state pension fund abroad and the law that one can only invest abroad: I hear representatives from other parties show that it will be wise, among other things. in order to limit the use of oil money to the current government. But that's not what you're discussing in this case. On this issue, I fully agree with Mr Hagen, who has said that the proposal, which was given to the majority at the national meeting of the Progress Party, to spend 100 billion. kr of the oil fund to reduce tolls, has nothing to do with the paragraph we are discussing here today. That's absolutely right. And today's government is spending more and more oil money, setting new records year after year. So you can do it within the framework we have today. But what we are discussing today is whether to legislate that the oil fund, in any case, should not be able to invest in Norway — to help secure values in Norway, to help ensure ownership in Norway, to contribute to acute or longer-term strategic situations. I fully agree that one should maintain the main distribution that has existed, that the State pension fund has invested abroad, and that we have used other instruments in Norway, both through the people's pension fund and through the ownership that one has through it – but also that we provide other instruments, including: through a green investment company, for which the Centre Party has agreed, to facilitate strategic investment in key new and renewable industries in Norway. However, depriving itself of the tool that the State pension fund abroad is also, in a given situation, in exceptional circumstances and special circumstances, to be able to use it to invest in Norway is unwise, and the Storting detracts from an important space of action. Finally, very briefly, on the subject of the purpose paragraph: I am pleased that one in the committee has now at least made sure that one agrees on a common purpose paragraph. I am also pleased that the Committee has gathered on some comments relating to the understanding of the purpose paragraph, for the purpose paragraph is absolutely fundamental to the governance of monetary policy in Norway. That's why you have, among other things. of an overall committee, saying: ‘Maintaining the value of money will be an overall objective of monetary policy. By ensuring price stability and low inflation, monetary policy can contribute to high welfare, high employment and economic growth over time.’ That is the principle underpinned by the new purpose paragraph, a principle for which the Central Party has been called upon and argued in the course of the process. I would then like to warn against a change in the principle, which some parties are calling for through comments on this matter. It is important that we do not get new discussions and new rounds of uncertainty about what lies at the root of the central bank's activities and purposes. I would like to make a comment on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1622	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1627	The climate already affects the Norwegian economy and will affect the Norwegian economy even more in the future. Fortunately, we can limit this impact if we start to take into account the climate and the climate risk now. In Norway, we have many resources that make it easier to see the light of the climate crisis. Among other things, we have skilled skilled workers and smart heads who find increasingly environmentally friendly ways of producing goods and energy. We have a long-distance country and a rich sea that never stops giving us food and material if we just manage it well enough. Not least, we have a significant amount of money on the book, which we choose to use ourselves. The central bank must contribute to Norway's achievement of the climate objectives that we are committed to through international agreements. To get good results, we need good organisation. The Government's proposal that the Executive Director of NBIM should be hired for five years with the possibility of extension, provides for a poor organisation where the head of our common savings money is not charged enough in the major task. The Governing Council of Norway’s Bank should continue to appoint the Executive Director of NBIM as usual. In this way, a good mechanism to ensure good results is maintained. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the proposal to legislate that the State pension fund abroad should only be used to invest abroad and in foreign currency. Although we do not believe that this is necessary to legislate, SV supports the principle that our savings should be used for saving, and that the oil revenues should be phased in responsibly. The argument that we now have so many tasks to do that we must cheat and go beyond the state budget, which is adopted by a parliament elected by the people, is not good enough. We can afford to spend a lot of money on green conversion even without opening up the pension fund beyond the rule of action. The problem is not that we do not have enough room for action over the state budget, but that the majority of people repeatedly choose to spend the large amount of money on asphalt in front of train rails and on oil exploration in front of green energy investments. So the problem is not that we have too little money in Norway, but that we are using them incorrectly. For example, the huge investment in the oil sector is taking over. investment in the mainland industry and the conversion of the economy. Because there are many good environmental measures that cost money. We could better spend more on forest protection to preserve biodiversity, store carbon, protect endangered species and provide more operational disadvantages to farmers, so that they could provide us with more local, safe and environmentally friendly food. But we don't have to use the pension fund to do that. We can do that, for example. to stop giving tax relief to the richest. I would like to address the proposals No. 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1648	Then the representative, Solvency Skaughty Foss, addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1653	Let me first thank the Committee for its work on the proposal for a new central bank law. The legislative proposal is based on the fact that Norway’s Bank will continue to be the operational manager of the State pension fund abroad and that the bank will have a new and more modern governance structure with a monetary policy and financial stability committee. The role of the representative body as the control and supervisory body of the Storting and the tasks of determining the budget and accounts are continued as at present. We want to build on solutions that have served us well. At the same time, we are making adjustments to be the best equipped to meet changing challenges. Among other things, the State pension fund abroad is now a much larger and more demanding part of Norway’s Bank’s responsibility than when the bank was given the task of managing the fund. The new structure will include, inter alia: release capacity of the Governing Council for the follow-up to capital management, while clarifying the roles of the Bank of Norway internally. The legislative proposal also provides for a clear purpose for the Bank of Norway and for the independence of the central bank in the use of instruments to be clarified. The central questions underlying the legislative proposal have previously been addressed to the Stortinget in Meld. St. 7 for 2018-2019, on new central bank law. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance's position reveals a broad outline of the framework outlined in the legislative proposal. The government emphasises that there is a broad consensus and understanding of what the central bank should do, its role in society and its purpose. The broad consensus provides a good and stable framework for the Bank of Norway. The Committee has agreed on an overall target formulation for the Bank of Norway. The purpose of the Bank of Norway shall be to maintain the value of the money, provide stability in the financial system and an efficient and secure payment system. Compared with the proposal of the Central Bank Act Committee and the biggest communication presented last October, the government has changed its wording in order to respond to comments from a minority of the Committee in the Stortingen’s position on the notification. The proposal, which has been put together by a majority, therefore implies that the Bank of Norway, as part of its objective, will contribute to high and stable production and employment. As described in the proposal, and also stated in the Committee on Legal Affairs' investigation, the Bank of Norway, through its monetary policy, will assume the primary responsibility for ensuring low and stable inflation. Not only can the Bank take a primary responsibility for the level of production and employment, but the Bank can and must contribute. The Bank shall focus on both aspects, as expressed in the monetary policy regulation. The Committee endorses the government’s legislative proposal on the organisation of the Bank of Norway. A minority in the Committee would like the position of the Executive Director of the Fund Management not to be on an annual basis and would like to justify this, inter alia. that there is no need for job protection equivalent to that of the governor. Year-on-year employees may also be cancelled in the same way as in other jobs if there are factual reasons for doing so, unless otherwise agreed. There are also good reasons why top managers in key positions in state agencies and businesses are employed on an annual basis. It provides an opportunity to assess at regular intervals what kind of management the organisation needs to meet changing challenges. It also contributes to the spread of power over time in highly influential businesses. Managing the management of the world's largest pension fund is undoubtedly a position of great influence. I also want to draw out some less ambiguities. A minority in the Committee writes that: ‘today, the Ministry of Finance proposes, after consultation with the Bank of Norway, what representation should work on and investigate’. Of course, the representativeness sets its own supervisory plan. However, the Ministry of Finance makes representations on issues relating to certification tasks that the representative has posted to the auditor. Another minority appears to assume that the proposal not to continue the provision on commemorative coins also includes so-called ‘circulation coins’ with a special character. The current regime for the issuance of such circulation coins is proposed to be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1696	This concerns the issue of annual targets or not to the head of NBIM. Now the Minister of Finance elaborated it a little bit in his speech. She said that it gives an opportunity to assess what kind of management you need over time. But is it not in every business and in every ‘company’ the responsibility of the board to make that assessment? The Director of the Social Security Fund is not employed on a yearly basis, and I assume that the Board of the Social Security Fund sets out performance requirements in terms of the ability to manage and develop the organisation and the results they will achieve. Can the Minister of Finance elaborate on the need for rotation in such a position? Who's going to rotate it between?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1701	I think I should stress what I said in my post: This is a position that is very important to us, it is a position that involves responsibility for managing significant financial values on behalf of the state. It is the management of very complex capital management, which imposes very high standards of competence, integrity, understanding of roles, leadership experience, understanding of society, etc. Now, when we propose to legislate for this to be the responsibility of the board of directors, the change that lies in this is the transition to goals. That really means being able to evaluate. Again, this is an important position, for which evaluations must be made from time to time, without the need for frequent shifts. I believe that stability is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1710	I don't think there's any disagreement about the meaning, what requirements are to be made, etc. What is a little disturbing is that does it mean that the Governing Council should not have an ongoing assessment of the performance of its responsibilities and tasks? Don't you think of the central bank, which is now managed by the fund – plus any other tasks – as a more normal government vis-à-vis a top executive in a business for which the board is responsible? Or do you view the NBIM head as the subordinate central bank, not as the governor, but as the governor?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1715	Here, I think you're trying to make a bigger misunderstanding than that. The Governing Board shall be primarily responsible for this and, of course, the Governing Board shall make a continuous assessment of the work being done. This is ultimately a matter of whether or not to have an addition for years. We think that's a better way to solve this problem in the future. Of course, it does not affect the current situation, but we believe it will be better for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1722	In this case, it is proposed, inter alia: to legislate that the oil fund cannot be used for investment in Norway. Not that we cannot spend oil money in the Norwegian economy, where the Council of State has made a record after a record, most recently in the revised national budget with seven billion oil dollars, not to reduce taxes or reduce tolls – they are record high – but through tax cuts to some of Norway’s richest, as well as increased money use in general. Why is it right to be able to tap more and more from the oil fund into investment in Norway, while a person should be required to legislate that he should not be able to preserve the oil fund as it is, and use it for investment in Norway in a given situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1727	Here, a lot of different issues were mixed. Let me just say that in the revised budget, the government has proposed to cancel both tolls and to reduce taxes. It's not true either, even though the Center Party claims this time and again, that we've used most of the tax credits to give to the rich, rather the opposite. Tax relief has benefited business and ordinary families. The use of oil money has been widely agreed in this room. After all, the government is presenting the state budget, but I have not seen that the opposition has made proposals for significant reductions in the use of oil money. The center party spends just as much money as the government, but we spend it for different purposes. How much money we spend in the Norwegian economy from one year to the next depends on the economic situation and other conditions. This is regulated within an action rule, which is flexible and allows us in given situations to solve tasks if they arise acutely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1734	It's absolutely right that we spend the money differently. If the scheme of the Centre Party had been implemented, we would have had lower taxes in Norway as well as lower taxes for those with low income. Then those who have their backs to carry it had contributed something more to the community. But the question we are discussing here is whether it makes sense to legislate that the State pension fund abroad, the oil fund, in any case, should not be used in any situation to invest in Norway. The general rule is quite fine, but we should have a green investment company; we should use the Swedish Social Security Fund – extend the mandate to it – but nevertheless, in exceptional situations, why would a detract from the Stortinget’s ability to actually use the State pension fund abroad as an opportunity to invest in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1741	The Central Party's alternative budget does not contribute to lower taxes and charges for this country, rather on the contrary. The centre party is proposing completely consistent billions of reinforcements in tax pressure, and it has to go beyond some, even if you're trying to produce it completely dependable. What we're doing in this case is legislating practice, a long-term practice that has been widely agreed upon in the Stortinget. It is not that we do not invest state capital in Norway. We have many tools that have been established and developed over many years: we have the State pension fund Norway – the Folketry Fund – which invests its entire capital in Norway and the Nordic countries, and we have just established Nysnø. So we have a lot of other tools that we use to add capital for different purposes in the Norwegian community. In addition, many investment decisions are made through the State budget, where we use both tax revenue, tax revenue and oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1748	The central party has proposed a green investment company for strategic investment in Norway, as voted by the government. The Central Party has proposed to look at extending the mandate of the People's Security Fund, but has so far not received a majority in this Chamber for it. The centre party has also proposed that we continue to have an independent national stock exchange in Norway to contribute to capital access and to a living business life throughout Norway. Unfortunately, the Council of State has contributed to Oslo Børs being sold out of the country. Then there is one last instrument, which is going on in some exceptional situations, to use the State pension fund abroad as an opportunity to invest in Norway to secure ownership and strategic investment. Why would a person want to remove that tool from the toolbox by legislating that it should be banned?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1753	Let me first say that we have a stacked toolbox to make investments in Norway in the different areas that we have to think of at all times. Although the Center Party has promoted a wide range of proposals, that doesn't mean they're reasonable. Although the Centre Party has made proposals to change the location of the Fund, it has not been given to do so in the manner set up by the Centre Party. We have announced that we will go through this based on input from the People's Security Fund and will come back to it at the next crossroads. We recently had a discussion about the stock exchange. The stock exchange is not sold out by Norway in that sense, it is still located right where it has been, and is a market place for the players of Oslo Børs. I remind you again that the stock exchange was privatised by the Stoltenberg government a long time ago, and that it is the private shareholders who have decided who will take over the ownership of the stock exchange. But it is still located in Oslo and will continue to be a good market place for Norwegian players.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1761	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1768	As Mr Buskerud's representative, I would like to draw attention to proposal No. 1, where an overall opposition requests that Norway’s Bank continue to have a statutory obligation to issue commemorative coins and that the responsibility for the selection of commemorative coins be transferred to the Ministry of Culture. The majority, for its part, propose to repeal Section 16 of today’s Central Bank Act. The issuance of coins shall therefore only take place exceptionally. The revenue shall no longer be assigned to non-profit-making purposes, but to the treasury. How thoughtful is that? The consequence is that parts of an almost 350-year-long, but still living, Norwegian industrial and cultural tradition are at risk of being lost. The Norwegian Mint at Kongsberg is Norway's second oldest living company. The size should, for both industrial and cultural policy reasons, ensure that the Coins are back in 100 pst. Norwegian ownership can maintain the memory coin tradition as a viable part of its production on Kongsberg and as an extra leg to stand on. Mint coins are issued in precious metal, with high artistic quality. Circulation coins with a special character are something else. From 1991 to 2005, the surplus on coin sales gave 120 million. kr for non-profit purposes, mainly cultural purposes. The non-profit purpose for which the revenue was allocated was also the sale. When Norway’s Bank assumed responsibility, revenues fell from an average of 62 million. kr in the years 2003-2005 to only 5,6 million. kr in 2011. They are, among other things, missing. a dedicated distribution system for sale, as it was before. For example, it was not even possible to buy the commemorative coins for the 2014 Constitutional Jubilee at the visit shop in Eidsvollsbyggen. The Ministry of Finance has previously set up its own Mint Committee, which delivered its investigation in 2014. The committee proposed to keep Section 16 of the Central Bank Act and to intensify the number of coin issuances. They put emphasis on commemorative coins as an important institution for a cultural nation, and that this is one of a few ways that public can honor people, institutions and events in the history of Norway. The proposals were never sent to the hearing and are not mentioned in the proposal. Heavy hearing bodies in today’s case – inter alia: Cultural History Museum – however, provides full support for the Mint Committee’s proposals. The same is true of social partners. In addition, several hearing bodies point out that the Ministry of Culture is better qualified to decide who or what should be honored with commemorative coins. Here, someone must have slept an hour, not only the representatives of the Busherud from the Right and the Advance Party, but also the culture and business politicians of the Stortinge. But there is still time to wake up and vote for the minority proposal later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1783	My heart beats for culture that is accessible to all. Arts in the streets that everyone goes into, and music education in the school that everyone goes to, are helping to make all of us living in this country have a common cultural basis with the impressions, knowledge and references that we share. Something else that contributes to this is memory coins and circulation coins with special character. Even though someone spends a lot more than others, we all spend money. When there's new coins that mark historical events, it's something that makes us curious. At least I became very curious in the Ibsen year 2006. Then I was 9 years old and knew little about Henrik Ibsen and his acting from before. I became interested when I saw him with his stick on the coin with which I paid, and decided to find out more. What I discovered from Ibsen's work then, I have still enjoyed today. Two years ago, I got a new favorite coin. Then it was 100 years since the first country meeting of the common people was organized in Tråante – or Trondheim – initiated by Elsa Laula Renberg. She was a leading woman who impressed me very much. She stood up for the Sami equivalency and liberation. Among other things, she took the fight for important matters as the right to education in Sami at school, which we today regard as a matter of course – fortunately. The Sami history is under-communicated, and the circulation coin of the meeting 1917 is one of not so many channels this story has reached to many people through. Norway's Bank has issued these types of coins since 1975, so it's both an established and very good way to show recognition and respect for historical events. Therefore, the Bank of Norway should continue to have this task, but responsibility for the selection process should be transferred to the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1794	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1810	I want to reassure both the President and the Committee that I shall not use all my 15 minutes allocated, but I think it is necessary to make some comments on the position that the Committee has taken, because we have a joint comitology comment on the role of representation. We have just finished the debate and will adopt a new central bank law later today. That Central Bank Act continues the role of representation in the same way as it does today. It is also the case that the role of the Storting vis-à-vis the Bank of Norway is clearly underlined in the Constitution. The representative body shall exercise high-level oversight, be investigatory and provide relevant information to the Stortinget. There is every reason to stress that it is also the impression of the Storting that the representation is fully doing. Nevertheless, we have made it clear in a joint comitology that we want a somewhat better dialogue with the representativeness. Among other things, we want a somewhat clearer report to the Committee on the issues of representation, and we say quite clearly that we want some common venues where we can discuss issues in the future. I would like to make it clear that the Committee will take the initiative to set up such joint venues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1819	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1835	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 11 and 12 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1867	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1876	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation on the issues I am now going to discuss. The State pension fund abroad and the State pension fund Norway are based on broad political agreement that the purpose of the pension fund is to support, under long-term considerations, the use of State petroleum revenues and saving to finance pension expenditure in the social security system. The Fund should not be a political instrument. Long-term and good management facilitates the benefit of the petroleum industry both today's generation and future generations. The market value of the oil fund at the end of 2018 was 8 251 billion. kr. I would like to highlight in particular two tasks, the Stortinget gave the Ministry in connection with the treatment of the previous fund notification: A proposal for a mandate was requested for investments in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure under the environmental mandate. It was requested in a request decision to assess whether the current criteria for the exclusion of coal companies are sufficient, in view of excluding companies with significant coal-related activities. These are two points I draw up in connection with my presentation now, and the government has addressed both parts of the year's fund statement. With regard to the first point, the majority of the Committee shows that we agree with the Ministry's assessment of increasing the interval between the market value of environmental mandates normally from today's 30-60 billion. NOK 30-120 billion. kr, and that a specific upper framework for non-listed renewable energy infrastructure of 2 pst is established. by the Fund, in order to mitigate the risk of such investments. This gives room to start with these investments, while at the same time hitting the risk in the fund. As regards point 2, on coal, as I have mentioned, the Ministry has obtained assessments from the Bank of Norway on the work on the coal criterion. Norway’s Bank considers that if the relative threshold of the criterion is 30 pst. as a share of revenues or activities will be reduced, the information and transaction costs challenges will increase because a larger number of companies will then be able to go out of or into the fund. This would therefore create challenges for the Bank of Norway to operationalise the decisions. About 75 pst. of the total coal activity is currently excluded or set aside for observation. The majority of the remaining coal activities are a small number of companies that can be considered to have large coal-related activities in the absolute sense. The relative thresholds of the criterion do not change, but are now supplemented by absolute coal extraction and coal-fired capacity thresholds. The majority of the Committee agrees that the thresholds are set at 20 million, respectively. tonnes and 10000 MW. I am referring to the fact that the government has set up a sample to review the ethical guidelines for the State pension fund abroad. The committee shall have, inter alia: have been mandated to assess the content of the existing ethical criteria in the guidelines and whether they should be amended, including whether some criteria should be included or new. Furthermore, the committee has been mandated to assess ethical considerations relating to the Fund’s investment in individual countries with legislation and legislation that violates recognised international conventions and standards and how they can be addressed, including whether current guidelines are appropriate for investments in such countries. The Committee takes the view that, in its assessments, the sample emphasises the need for guidelines to address such challenges and that they can be properly practised. I would also like to address the other matter briefly. In November 2017, the Ministry received advice from the Bank of Norway that the vulnerability of the country’s assets to a lasting fall in oil and gas prices could be reduced if the sector is taken out of the fund reference index for shares. The Ministry then set up an expert committee, which made its recommendation. Their advice was that the vulnerability to a possible lasting oil price drop could be better reduced by other measures. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Ministry that the extraction of all energy shares in the SPU is not very accurate. Companies that do not have renewable energy as their main activity are expected to hold about 90 pst. of the growth of listed renewable energy infrastructure by 2030. The majority of the Committee therefore agree with the Ministry's proposal to take upstream companies, i.e. companies engaged only in exploration and production of oil and gas, out of the SPU's investment universe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1906	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and coherent work. As he explained, there is still a broad consensus here in the United Kingdom about the main lines of the management of our pension funds, both abroad and inland. It's a force. The government has followed orders from last year’s treatment in an aggregate manner. Investments in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure are open and the framework for the mandates related to the environment is extended. It is agreed that careful progress should be made, with partners in developed markets. As experience is gained, we can assess both frameworks and markets – and I will add: in the light of the economic results of these investments. Last year the Storting asked for a tightening of the criteria for the exclusion of coal companies. I think the government's proposal to supplement the 30-percent criterion with two concrete volume limits for coal power generation and coal extraction, respectively, is good and easy to enforce. We support this. A further tightening of these criteria can then be considered later. A unanimous committee last year asked the government to assess whether the ethical code is robust enough when the fund enters markets where there is a cause for concern about the human rights situation in general and where there is a concern that it is possible to verify that the guidelines and standards required by companies in which it is to invest are being followed. This is a demanding area, and I think it makes sense, as the government has done, to get a sample to review the issues. The mandate seems well adapted to the task, but for security reasons, we assume that the mandate is far enough for the sample to assess models other than observation and exclusion in order to address the ethical challenges. This could be done, for example, by: to carry out ethical risk assessments prior to carrying out the investment. We also face ethical challenges around corporations operating in occupied areas, such as the West Bank, and in other conflict areas. Last year, an assessment was also requested of the exclusion of gambling companies banned in Norway, as requested by a majority in the United Kingdom in the past. We have received an assessment, and the Labour Party disagrees with the government's conclusion. We therefore propose the establishment of a product criterion for the observation and exclusion of gambling companies operating illegally in Norway. I am addressing this proposal and the other proposals by the Labour Party are in favour. The Workers' Party supports the government's proposal to withdraw the fund from upstream energy companies, a response to the Norwegian Bank's request to reduce the exposure of the Norwegian economy to fluctuations in the oil price. There is limited insurance against these fluctuations, but we agree that going out of the downstream oil companies also has more disadvantages. In the hearings in the Committee, the Board of Directors of the Fund said that the fund has now become so large that it is growing out of the investment universe it has received, in Norway and the Nordic countries. We therefore ask in a note that the government in next year's notification assesses this and proposes necessary changes. Although for some reason the government parties are not in this request, I assume that the Minister of Finance will comply with the request, in line with the consensus we are all served with around the management of our two pension funds – and that a proposal to this effect is therefore not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1925	The representative Svein Roald Hansen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1930	There are some basic principles underpinning the management of State pension funds abroad. There are principles that have been over there and that have served both the management of the fund and not least the Norwegian community well by having had a good development of the fund over time, through changing governments. Those principles are important for us to ring and for them to continue. The objective is to contribute to the highest rate of return over time within an acceptable risk and to reduce management costs. That's what you've been looking for in the past, and it's important that it's still done. Therefore, it is also important to make adjustments along the way, to make them knowledge-based. Then it's important just to do it gradually and based on the gathering of broad information. That's why it's wise to go into new products, new areas, that it's thoughtful, and that you initially go into it carefully. To what is going on in unlisted infrastructure: the centre party is part of a broad majority of the committee that has opened it up. However, it is also important to bear in mind that it is an area that is very close to being unproblematic, also linked to the overall objectives of managing the State pension fund. It is not that there is an objective in itself that there should be the most investment in unlisted infrastructure. When you see the investment of the oil fund in other areas, among other things: in property, it is also seen that it is gradually assessed to withdraw from some unlisted investments, based on the assessments made there. An assessment that should also be made on the part of the oil fund, by the State, is whether to contribute to the listing of unlisted investments. Noted investments, in principle, contribute both to greater transparency and transparency in order to reduce management costs. When you're going to go into unlisted infrastructure, there's especially two things that we from the Center Party think would be wise to contribute to. One is to ensure a clear and distinct threshold of ownership of individual projects and individual securities. The fact that you don't want to make an exception to a 10% limit makes sense. And what the oil fund generally does when you invest in shares around the world is just having small holdings and spreading risk. Therefore, excessive risk exposure to unlisted infrastructure should be strongly withheld. The second thing we are also concerned with is that when entering a new area such as unlisted infrastructure, you should first enter completed projects, because completed projects have a smaller risk associated with them than existing projects. Those who have carried out those investments will then be freed from capital to make new investments. At the same time, the State pension fund will reduce its risk both economically and reputably. Finally, I would like to say something about what is going on with the management of the oil fund. The centre party supports the presence of a good part of the business abroad. At the same time, we believe that we must constantly seek to ensure that a maximum part of the business is in Norway, both in order to have closeness to Norwegian competence, to Norwegian culture and to Norwegian decision-making systems, and to use it to create positive ring-effects in the Norwegian financial industry and other Norwegian business – and to contribute to it throughout Norway. I would like to take up with it the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1947	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1952	We're lucky and we have a lot of money in our two pension funds. We're clearly using the largest to invest in the rest of the world. We invest to get returns and to make the fund grow, so it can give us even more well-being in the future. But we must also take responsibility for how this massive capital affects the world. This is the background to SV being the driver of the ethical guidelines, for this is a moral responsibility. However, it is also a question of whether the investments made by the fund should not undermine its own long-term return. For example, we invest. of course, in the event of climate and environmental damage, this goes beyond the long-term return. The size decided in 2015 to withdraw the oil fund from coal – a good decision, which has led to the fact that we no longer own shares in some companies we should not support, because they have a lot of their business in coal. But we still own shares in some companies that run large-scale coal. The steps we're taking are in the right direction, but they're too small. It is not enough that only the worst coal companies disappear from our fund, nor is it enough that it is just upstream energy companies that move. It avoids the risk of oil prices, but it does not address climate risks. Ever since the introduction of the Ethics Guidelines, they have been subject to regular improvements and changes. This work must continue. NBIM has taken a number of steps to be in advance of the responsible administration. They have developed a number of expectations documents for the companies in which they have invested, in the areas of climate change, water management, human rights, children's rights, taxes and transparency and anti-corruption work. This is an important contribution for the oil fund to be at the forefront of responsible management. But now we see an international development in which more and more pension and investment funds go even further than the SPU in taking into account how current investment affects growth in the long term. Therefore, SV considers it necessary to start work to ensure that ethical assessments can be taken prior to the investment. SV therefore proposes, together with the Workers' Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party, that consideration be given to whether the so-called pre-filtering of investments is appropriate. In addition, it is necessary to work on the feasibility of introducing ethical guidelines on the investment of the oil fund in sovereign debt, on the basis of which the criteria of transparency and accountability in public budgetary procedures in the issuer country are to be based. One thing that can be assessed in particular is to see positive filtration through existing indices, such as from the IMF or the OECD. Together with the Green and Red Environmental Party, SV proposes to extend the coal criterion to include companies that are building or planning to expand new coal-fired power plants. This will send a strong signal to the energy companies that it is high time at least to move away from the most polluting investments. It's a little bit surprising that we don't get a majority in the Biggest on this proposal. Furthermore, we propose that work be undertaken to phase out all coal investments from the Fund and set an end date for such investments. Here, too, we might have expected to join more parties. Our common fund continues to invest significantly in weapons manufacturers and manufacturers of key components of weapons. We therefore propose a review of this in the context of next year's communication. The Oil Fund has invested in companies with commercial activities in the occupied Palestinian region. This includes companies excluded by other pension funds and companies that finance the expansion of the non-international settlements on the West Bank. Companies and businesses must respect human rights in the conflict area, and the Oil Fund has a special responsibility under the United Nations Guiding Principles for Enterprise and Human Rights in order to exercise special care in conflict areas. The Climate Risk Committee concluded in its investigation that the achievement of the Paris objectives requires a fundamental shift in the use of energy by the world community, which will also have consequences for the Norwegian economy. The oil fund does not last forever when we invest in things that ruin the future. I want to address the suggestions that SV is part of that have not been addressed before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1982	Then the representative, Solvency Skaughty Foss, addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e1987	Let me also add to those who have thanked both the case spokesman and the rest of the Committee for a broad and comprehensive setting. It is important, when the State pension fund has grown larger than I think someone could actually imagine when it started back in the 1990s. With this fund, Norway has set an example for the rest of the world to show how large natural resources can be managed in a good way, both for current and future generations. The proof of that, I think, is that the propositions we're currently dealing with have been given at least as much space in the world around us as they have here in Norway. In this process, a number of call-outs are answered, and both the vote and the social debate show that there is a moment when the government of the State pension fund abroad will demand more debate in the future. Contrary to previous debates on fund announcements, the Christian People's Party has gone from being an opposition party to becoming a government party, and where one might once make suggestions as to how to figure out the basis for pulling the State pension fund abroad out of gambling and alcohol companies, we are now voting for the position of the majority in this matter today. As the fund has grown larger and larger, Norway has become a significant international investor, and with that there is a great responsibility. That's why I'm glad the government has dropped a selection to go through the ethical guidelines for the SPU. It has a remarkable impact on the oil fund's investments, including: the investments found to have been made by the oil fund in cannabis. This has been an emerging industry for both medical and recreational use after some countries have liberalised drug legislation. This is a kind of problem, which is, of course, that the selection can look at more closely, given that the ethical guidelines we have must be adapted to the way the fund operates. New issues such as this will also arise, and it is difficult to imagine how investment in drugs for recreational use is good, while tobacco is being excluded. Since the start of this debate, it has also been known that NBIM has decided not to be invested in companies with direct exposure to cannabis. That's wise. It is also good that a Joint Committee stands behind the selection that is now to assess this legislation and ethical aspects of the issues associated with it. The most enjoyable thing about the current fund notification is that the oil fund is taking long steps towards reducing the climate risk of our pension funds. The Christian People's Party has been working for many years to enable the oil fund to invest in unlisted infrastructure. Now it happens. In 2015, the Christian People's Party alone was in charge of proposing that the oil fund be withdrawn from the oil company, and now the oil fund is withdrawn from the upstream company. At the top of this, the carbon criterion is enhanced. Today's decision represents a big saying for us on all three sides, and it's a long step in our job to limit the climate risk for the nation and to get a shift from fossil to renewable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2004	On the day that Rasmus Hansson, as the first representative of the Greens, went up on this pulpit, rather nervously, in the 2013 debate on the environment, he promoted two proposals. One was to extract the oil fund from coal and tar sands, and the other was to invest up to 5 pst. the market value of the fund in renewable energy infrastructure. Both proposals were voted down that day, which we have been used to since. But in 2015 we got a decision that the State pension fund was going abroad out of coal investment, and we like to share that victory with more. And last year we agreed to open up investments in unlisted infrastructure within the fund's environmental mandate. We see this as great victories, not least for those who are going to inherit the globe after us. But – incredibly – today, after the UN 1.5 degree report, after the report of the UN Panel on Nature and the increasing number of climate refugees in the world, we are still here and must argue that Norway’s common assets in the oil fund will be withdrawn from companies that build, or plan to build, new coal-fired power plants. In a world of climate crisis, it is also quite incredible that we still need to spend time here in the hall arguing to give the administrators of the State pension fund foreign mandate and freedom to invest as much as possible in the future, namely in renewable infrastructure, where it is considered by administrators to be profitable and good investment. Therefore, together with SV and Rødt today, we are promoting proposals that the State pension fund abroad should be withdrawn by companies that are building, or planning to build, new coal-fired power stations and that the final phase-out date for coal investment is actually set. We also promote proposals to increase the framework for the environmental mandate and to assess the mandate for investment in renewable infrastructure more every two years. While the Progress Party wants to spend 100 billion dollars. by the oil fund in order to remove the backbone from the motorway party to which they have invited themselves, and by the Red Party and the Centre Party will use the oil fund to finance national industrial construction, the Green Party will deal with the mandate that the State pension fund should not be invested domestically. But we believe that it is both economically risky and selfish not to contribute more to climate assistance than Norway is doing today, and we think it is wise to use the fund for this. A few days ago, we discussed the demands of climate strikers in Stortinget, all of whom were rejected in this room. One of the requirements was that Norway should contribute $65 billion. aid every year for climate action in poor countries. The Greens support it. We have also previously proposed an annual climate percentage, which is equivalent to 1 pst. by GNI each year taken from the oil fund and entering the UN Green Climate Fund to finance climate action and adaptation in poor countries. There's several reasons for that. 65 B.C.E. kr is a lot of money, but the whole reason we have the oil fund today is that over several decades we have been selling and making money on oil and gas, which has contributed to the climate crisis initially. That is why we have a great moral responsibility. Nor is it unreasonable to use less than 1 pst. of our savings in relieving the crisis we've been in for. Not least, by taking responsibility for the fact that the poor countries in the world can also cut emissions and change, we also help ourselves – we get a better globe with less tensions and fewer people on the run. Not investing in resolving the climate crisis poses a huge financial risk. I think this might be a little under-communicated. The business community has begun to see the climate risk in the white eye. In Norway, we have seen this by the fact that fishermen have to move after the fish, which is moving northwards. It is only the beginning of the changes that will also affect the companies Staten pension fund abroad currently investing in. Not to invest in reduced greenhouse gas emissions is to gamble with the future with the savings of the Norwegian people. Selling out of fossil energy and allowing more investment in renewable energy and the environment are smart, fair and profitable both for the environment and for humans and even for the pension fund itself and the fund's purpose to increase the value of our savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2020	The State pension fund is our common savings and an integral part of economic policy. The framework established for the Fund facilitates the financing of petroleum revenues for well-being and political efforts for both current and future generations. Good and long-term management of the State pension fund requires broad opening up and confidence in the way the fund is managed. The annual Communications to the EEAS are intended to contribute to transparency and wide-ranging debate on the management of the Fund. The chosen investment strategy is based on long-term work, with regular assessments of how the management of the fund can be further developed. Changes to the strategy shall be based on thorough, professional assessments. Important road choices are anchored in Stortinget. The troubled financial markets produced weak results in SPU, the State pension fund abroad, and SPN, the State pension fund Norway, in 2018. The return on SPU was the second weakest in the fund's history. However, the fourth year was not a very special year in financial markets. We have to be prepared that large movements in the markets may affect the value of both SPU and SPN. The Committee's presentation shows broad support for the strategy and framework for the Fund. I'm glad. In particular, the broad political agreement on the objectives of the Fund, namely to achieve the highest return on acceptable risk, is important. If the investment in the fund is directed towards other objectives, conflicts of objectives and uncertainties can easily arise. It may jeopardise the financial objective of the Fund and weaken its contribution to future welfare. In this year’s report, we propose to adjust the investment strategy for SPU in some areas. In order to contribute to lower transaction costs and increased investmentability, some adjustments are made to the framework and the reference index for SPU’s bond investments. It also opens up the possibility for the SPU to be invested in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure within a suitable framework. This means that we do not lead the fund to be invested in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure, but it allows Norway’s Bank to invest in such assets if the bank considers this to be profitable. I am pleased that a broad political majority supports the government's assessments in these areas. Within the financial objective, the State pension fund shall be managed responsibly. By doing so, I believe that we should ensure both good returns and that we respect fundamental ethical standards and the values represented by the owners of the fund, the Norwegian people. With holdings in a large number of companies in many different markets, good and responsible management involves dealing with complex issues. We see that this part of SPU management is getting a lot of attention both on the Storting and on the rest of the population. In this year’s communication, the government is taking action to tighten up and clarify the criteria of the ethical guidelines for the management of the SPU. To capture companies with significant coal-related activities in the absolute sense, we introduce absolute thresholds for the coal criterion. We also provide clarifications on the climate criterion and have reduced a sample to review the Ethical Guidelines for the Fund. I'm glad that a majority supports the solutions it's being added up to. There has been a broad debate on the energy shares in SPU. The government has stressed that taking out of the SPU companies that are mainly engaged in the search for and production of oil and gas – so-called upstream companies – could contribute to a slightly lower overall risk associated with this type of activity for the Norwegian economy. The Committee's attitude to the Communication on the Energy Shares in the SPU shows broad support for the government's assessments. I'm glad. I stress that this is not a climate policy measure. The assessment of upstream companies in the SPU does not reflect a particular view of oil prices, future profitability or sustainability in the petroleum sector. The Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Bank of Norway, will now lay down detailed rules for the phasing out of SPU’s investments in upstream companies. Finally, the annual communications on the State pension fund discuss the basis for managing an important part of our common wealth. Several governments have helped to shape the strategy for the fund, and we will build on that. A broad anchoring of the management of the fund is important for our ability to stick to the long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2043	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2048	With a share of 70 pst. the risk in the fund has increased and the need for risk management has increased. It is important that the Governing Board has great attention to this. One means of achieving this is for the Minister of Finance, in his instructions to the Governor of the Central Bank, to ask the Ministry for regular information on the overall risk of the Fund in the event of abnormal changes in the risk profile of the financial markets and the international economy. Will the Minister of Finance follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2053	The government, the Ministry of Finance and I are following up the agencies we are responsible for, through ownership management. This means that we receive ongoing reports on development. This is also information shared publicly. This is a fund that practices openness, and that spends a lot of the work they do, for public transparency, precisely because it's going to be as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2058	In the case of last year’s notification, and repeated at the notification this year, the comments from the Workers’ Party wish that the Stortinget could also obtain an analysis of how the results of pension funds abroad are being developed, not only in relation to the reference index, as we get, but also in relation to other large international funds. Is there anything the Minister of Finance would like to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2063	I've seen the minority in the committee point out that we're going to compare the fund with other funds. I'm not so sure that it really provides better basis for new assessments, simply because the state pension fund abroad is as large as it is. We also have to consider that there are different criteria drawn up around the different funds. Therefore, it has not been given that the basis for comparison is particularly good. The important thing is that we carry out ongoing analyses and assessments of the management of the fund and share it with the Storting through the annual notifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2068	The Minister of Finance and others in this debate have stressed the importance of a broad understanding, or consensus, of the Fund, both for its purposes and for its management. Then I just want to make sure that we have a common understanding of the rule of action. The question is, would it use 100 billion? kr from the SPU to pay off tolls are within the action rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2073	The rule of action is not subject to debate in this Chamber, but I can assure you that the rule of action underpins the government's economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2078	The Oil Fund is a large fund that operates in a wide variety of countries and markets. The fact that one also has many employees and many offices in different countries makes sense in many contexts for follow-up. At the same time, having a conscious relationship with the fact that a greater proportion of the business is carried out in Norway could contribute to greater proximity to Norwegian conditions, Norwegian culture, Norwegian legislation and Norwegian competence as well as to strengthening both financial industry and other business in Norway. Does the Council of State consider it a political objective to strengthen and increase the representation of the oil fund in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2085	A significant part of the SPU is managed from Norway. But then, over time, we have developed offices in other parts of the world, simply because it helps to improve management, improve results and gain better access to the markets in which to invest. I think that makes sense. But there is a broad consensus, I think, in this room that the main activity of the SPU is going to be managed from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2090	There's a constant discussion about where to be represented, including by the closure and relocation of offices. Let me make my question clear: is it a political ambition to ensure that a maximum share of the management of the oil fund takes place in Norway, to strengthen the Norwegian financial industry and the Norwegian industry, and to contribute as much as possible to Norwegian competence and culture in the management of the oil fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2096	The overall objective of the management of State pension funds abroad is to ensure the highest return on acceptable risk. So I notice that from time to time there are a lot of minority proposals in this room that don't have much to do with it, but they're going to take care of other political concerns. I think it is important that we stick to what has been the overall framework for this administration, and do not trace off with many other tasks and tasks to the fund that it is not set to solve. It's set to manage our common savings well, giving returns over time, and making us have financial muscles in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2103	It is a serious problem that there are no open and correct answers to how much of our savings are invested in weapons, or how much weapons company Norwegian money is inside. Earlier this year, Changemaker, Future in our hands, Save Barna and Norwegian People's Aid took the matter into their own hands, did a digging work and prepared a report on this. I wonder if the Council of State has had time to read this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2108	I have not read the report in detail, but I have learned that Changemaker has had views on this, just as many non-governmental organisations have views on different parts of the management of the fund. It would be to weaken the fund to follow up all the special recommendations that each volunteer organisation has – we have to stick to what is the overall objective of the management of the fund. That being said, the government has taken an initiative and set down a sample that is now to go through the administrative ethical guidelines. It's both about the fact that it's been a long time since we initially drew up the ethical guidelines, and that it makes sense to go through them, and that there are from time to time difficult issues related to ethical balances on the table that we think it makes sense to get a good review of before we report this back to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2115	I understand that it is not always time or appropriate to follow up absolutely every input that comes. With regard to this report, I can inform you that it shows that our oil fund can be invested in up to 600 companies that produce war material or military technology, and that our money is in almost half of the world's largest weapons companies. Does the Council of State feel that this is ethically sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2120	In any case, the fund follows the ethical guidelines that it has imposed today – to the point and the point – and cooperates closely with the Ethics Council, which has a role to play in making assessments of this. As I said in my previous answer: now we have put down a sample to review all the ethical guidelines to see if there is a need to replace them, supplement them, complement them, as the social debate gives us the need to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2125	I basically understand that the Minister of Finance wants to distinguish between purely financial and economic considerations that the fund should focus on, and everything else. But some of us believe that this is related, and even when it comes to climate, we will probably increasingly see that what is climate policy smart is also economically and financially very appropriate and will reduce the risk. So that's part of the debate. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for having today a debate on the level of ambition and not on whether we, for example. shall be able to invest in renewable infrastructure. I think that's very good. However, a proposal that falls today is to ask the government to assess the mandate for investment in unlisted infrastructure every two years, with a view to extending its mandate in size. The question is whether the Minister of Finance will monitor the development of the Fund's investment in this area and also increase its mandate if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2134	Let me first say that climate risk is an important part of the framework under which the fund manages the funds. So to the question of renewable infrastructure: so now we're opening this up. We've made it very clear that we're opening up for this now. The Bank must gain experience, step by step, in order to identify the opportunities available in this market and the constraints there are. I also believe that the Green Party representative should lubricate himself with a little patience in order to allow the bank to reap the experience that they now need, above all to make it clear that we are going to expand the framework for that type of investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2141	I can explain why I'm impatient. It's both because we have a climate crisis, and because we've now put a political constraint on how much the fund's administrators can invest in climate. If you put it in 5 pst, the chance of being constrained by a political constraint is less than when you put it in 2 pst. I believe that it is a direct political governance of the fund to set such a low ceiling that you could risk investing less than what the fund administrators would actually seem to be very economically appropriate to do. I also want to show that some of the challenges here, for example. is that, since 2015, the Ethics Council has made several recommendations based on climate criteria, which Norway’s Bank has so far not followed up. So even if you have an intention and ethical guidelines that say that climate needs to be focused, it's not really real today. Then I will give the Council of State the opportunity to respond more fully to whether or not to ensure that this is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2148	We have, precisely because there has been ambiguity related to climate criteria, spent time prior to this message and presented in this message how we should follow up on this in the future. I believe that we have now taken a good step in the right direction of getting in place. Then I understand that the MDG believes that the state pension fund abroad is going to solve a lot of different climate issues. I disagree. This is a financial fund, and the whole point of that is to secure good returns at an acceptable risk. Thus, it is not a fund to take into account climate policy considerations, foreign policy considerations or everything that is sometimes on the agenda, especially from voluntary organisations. That is the objective we have to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2155	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2173	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2182	The Government reports annually to the Government on the development of financial markets. The Financial Committee has shown a great deal of commitment to the many important themes of the Communication of the Year. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. The Committee refers to good prospects for the Norwegian economy, with expected growth of 2.5 pst. in the current year and 2 pst. Next year. The highest risk of financial stability is the high debt of households, much related to high domestic price growth. The Nordics are in debt at the top of the world, and a marked increase in interest rates is causing concern about how households will tolerate it. The Housing Loan Regulation has helped to dampen the growth of housing prices, and the Committee points out that the IMF has considered that it should be made permanent. The Committee stresses that climate change creates risks also in the financial sector, and sees the importance of Norway contributing through several institutions in international cooperation to address climate risks. Equally important is the contribution of the financial industry to the transition to the low-carbon society through its advice and funding. An overall committee sees that those who have completed a defined benefit pension scheme in the private sector, and thus obtained a free policy, get too little of it paid. To this end, the Committee has met the proposal of the Financial Supervisory Authority for a new legislation on free police, which was notified. Norwegian banks are consistently solid. Foreign financial institutions have 25 p.m. market share in Norway, and when we are now to incorporate the capital requirements of the banks into the EEA Agreement, the Committee is committed to maintaining sound Norwegian banks, but also to ensuring the competitiveness of Norwegian banks. Last year, the size of the store instructed the government to facilitate the regulatory testing of new technology in the financial sector – this through the testing of new business ideas against our comprehensive regulatory framework, in a regulatory sandbox. It is reported in the Communication that it will be ready by the end of 2019 and the Committee believes that it is important for new financial technology companies to choose to set up their activities in Norway. The Committee has agreed to a desire to facilitate public funding in Norway and is committed to following a pan-European legislative development by the government. At the same time, the Committee would stress that consumer protection needs to be ensured through platforms that provide loans to private individuals. The size has long been concerned with limiting the negative effects on individuals and society of the growth of consumer loans. From 1 July of this year, the financial industry will have access to information on all unsecured liabilities through the debt registers, and from 15 May, the consumer lending banks will have to comply with regulations on requirements for the lending practices of financial undertakings for consumer loans. For those who have the ability to control, consumer loans are a good thing, but for those who cannot pay, loans create great problems for them and their loved ones. The Committee has assessed that the government's notified amendments to the Financial Agreements Act, with the obligation of refusal and liability in the event of a breach of the law, could result in more of the risk of loss being transferred to the banks. Financial complaints are important for consumers who receive loans in breach of law and regulations. 25 pst. the Norwegian financial market operators are non-resident, while Norwegian banks offer services outside Norway to a small extent. Norwegian and regional banks are important for the provision of finance for businesses. For regions with a savings bank, it is also important that profits remain in the community. It is important that framework conditions and legal requirements are adapted to the ability of all banks to be competitive. The Labour Party believes that there is a major cause for concern about the debt of households. Debt has increased much more than income. The Housing Loan Regulation has helped to mitigate the debt growth, but many young people now have a housing debt of five times the gross income. It's hard to operate, and at an interest rate rise it gets heavier. The requirement for equity makes it difficult for young people in the establishment phase to enter the housing market without parental support. It requires innovation in housing policy and housing financing. We need to use the House Bank, rent-to-owners and other measures, so that the family background does not determine the possibility of entering the housing market. With this I address the proposals that the Workers' Party has promoted alone or with others. In consultation with the Centre Party, proposal No. 8 in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2210	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2215	Financial markets, financial services and payment systems are part of society’s critical infrastructure and form the basis for all economic activity – for consumers, businesses and in the public sector. The financial market notification of the year draws increased attention to climate risk and digital vulnerability and clarifies banks’ obligation to offer and accept cash. The same applies to access to capital and the structure of the banking market and to innovation in the financial sector. For five consecutive years, the financial industry is referred to in a business policy perspective. Financial markets are comprehensively regulated in order to meet the objective of financial stability, which is essential for confidence both in banks, in financial institutions and in the market. Regulations shall prevent financial turmoil and crisis with the serious societal consequences we know from experience. The soundness of the banks is thus central and a strength for the Norwegian economy. When the EU capital requirements rules are incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the government sees the whole of the capital requirements, with objectives of equal capital requirements for Norwegian and foreign banks. New and lower capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, the SME discount, are considered positive, given that the built-up soundness is not impaired. The overall picture shows that things are going well in the Norwegian economy; the arrows are pointing in the right direction. Unemployment is record low, employment is increasing, throughout the country and in all industries. There is strong growth in the economy, a growth that is higher than the trend growth. In an upturn, some money use is important. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, supports the government’s economic policy and has stated in the country report that the neutral budgetary policy in recent years is an improvement in relation to fiscal policy in previous periods of economic recovery. Continuing a responsible economic policy in the future and building buffers is necessary, we must avoid getting into a situation later on where we need to tighten strongly. Although the Norwegian economy is essentially in the midst of a positive development, it is at the same time a number of worrying features. The high level of indebtedness in households and a strong price increase in asset values such as housing and property constitute a vulnerability and a risk to financial stability. The strong growth in consumer loans is particularly unfortunate. Much has therefore already been done to reduce the risk. The Housing Loan Regulation, which has been provisionally extended in 2019, works as intended. The total indebtedness growth in households has decreased in the last year, and fewer raise very high loans in relation to income and housing value. Regulations on bank access to consumer loans have been streamlined and regulated. A maximum grace period of five years and aggressive marketing measures are required. It will be important to ensure that the simplifications in the public finance legislation do not counteract the steps taken to dampen the growth of consumer loans. The Debt Registry, or the Unsecured Debt Information Service, will operate in the summer and will become an important tool to protect against further growth in consumer debt. In the long term, it can be assessed whether all liabilities are to be entered in the register in order to obtain an effective overall picture of the individual’s leverage. The government has identified different interest rate caps and cap models. An interest rate cap will not be able to prevent vulnerable customers from over-incurring debt. Other measures will be more effective. Interest rate caps are also not recommended as long as small loans with a very short maturity are not very large in Norway. The development is followed closely and the need for further tightening and regulation of the consumer loan market is assessed on an ongoing basis. The Government’s proposal for the new Financial Contracts Act is met. It will aim at strengthening consumer protection in financial services and at shifting more of the risk by lending to banks. Changes in bank liabilities and requirements for new and improved credit ratings, including the obligation to reject loan claims, have already been notified. The requirement that all providers of financial services in Norway be associated with an approved complaint procedure is prepared. The Collections Act is also under review. The aim is to reduce both the costs of debt collection and the number of debt collection cases and thus to reduce the level of debt and payment problems. The recent situation of financial supervision, with a number of breaches of the lending legislation, is serious. It provides a basis for looking at further constraints on banks, such as the prohibition of offering higher loans than the client requests. To lure customers into unnecessary credit absorption is a breach of good business practice. It should also be considered to limit access to the resale of defaulted consumer loans as well as to restrictions on the use of debt collection agencies and the Namsman to collect consumer loans through wage and social security seizures if the loan is granted in breach of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2257	The financial industry has been through an incredible journey in a short time. From having to do the most in a banking room because really not so many years ago, we customers today can do the same services online, 24 hours a day, year-round. There are more offers, greater diversity, and availability is now completely different when you avoid using working time for ordinary purposes. Every day for us consumers have become simpler, and technological solutions are still something we are just at the beginning of. At the same time, we know that data attacks and data breaches require an increasing focus from the financial industry itself, and we need even more smart minds that will help to create new and innovative solutions in the future, but also secure solutions for digital services that consumers and our businesses will use in the future. That is why it is good that we have made a strong commitment to ICT, both on the education side and in research and development. We can also record with satisfaction that the government will further facilitate innovation in financial services in the future, and that the Financial Supervisory Authority has been asked to establish a regulatory sandbox for Fintec by the end of 2019. The financial industry stands for 2 pst. of employment and 7 pst. by the Norwegian value creation. The banking industry is solid, and it's going with profit. This makes access to loans for Norwegian residents and Norwegian companies easy. When Norwegian enterprises have good access to loans, there are also good opportunities for further growth, giving more jobs and more use to the welfare community. On the other hand, we still see a worrying growth in private debt. Given the already high level of people’s debt in relation to income, there is reason to be concerned about the vulnerability of this both to society and not least to individuals, given the changes that will occur in the interest rate market in the future. Increased housing prices have given people access to ever-increasing new mortgage loans, but at the same time provide a vulnerability given that an increasing proportion of income will go to pay interest and rebates. Increased interest rates will accelerate this vulnerability. Since most borrowers have already opted for floating interest rates and a large part of them have not saved reserves, there is reason to fear that many will have financial problems when interest rates will gradually rise. The government has contributed good and accurate rules and capital requirements to banks that capture some of the lending risk. The regulation of bank lending practices also helps to mitigate the burden of debt, but it is important that banks carefully assess the future functioning of their customers. Easy access to digital services and the use of cards have led to less use of cash. It's good that people can pay exactly as they want, and the spread of technology is essentially positive. At the same time, it is important to clarify that everyone has and will have the opportunity to pay exactly the way they want to. Anyone who sells in Norway is initially entitled to have the customer pay in cash, and it may be worth stressing that in all cases where sales are made over a disk and the like, the customer has the right to pay in cash. In the communication, the government gives a very clear message to the banks to fulfil the obligation they have to offer customers both to withdraw and to deposit cash into their accounts. We know that banks consider different ways of cooperating on this. I expect the banks to see themselves profited from finding good and suitable ways to give customers good access in this area in the future as well. Otherwise, it is good to record that the department is clear that if not, they will consider how this can be ensured by law or regulation if necessary. The Financial Market Communication provides a good overview of the broad lines of financial market policy. It provides a good picture of the financial market, both from a business perspective and as our most used source of finance. It takes us through the activities of institutions such as Norway's Bank, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Folketrugdfondet. It is good to see that we have a government that has a good overview of the financial markets and the measures that are or may be necessary to ensure that the financial market will continue to function in the future, for the benefit of the financial industry itself, and to ensure continued growth in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2280	If one is to ensure that it is good to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway, one must also have a well-functioning financial market. I have registered so far today that the Minister of Finance is trying to disclaim responsibility for the use of oil money. It is one of the prime tasks of the government and the finance minister to set the level of proper oil money use in the Norwegian community. In recent years, a record has been made of oil money consumption records, while the opposition’s task has been to hold back — and there may be a need to do more, including in the future. But also within the framework in which a policy is pursued, it is important how a person spends the money. What the government contributes to is a policy of centralising Norway and increasing disparities, which also increases the financial risk in Norwegian society and does not contribute to financial stability. A marked alarming trend in debt build-up in Norwegian society, in particular the development of consumer loans. Although consumption loans amount to only approx. 3 pst. of the total loans, it constitutes approximately: 14 pst. of the interest burden on people in Norway. That is why there is a need to take action — and much clearer and clearer action than what has so far been the will of the majority. Then we have to go inside and grab hold and say that no, we are no longer going to have the marketing of consumer loans. Last year there was a request to the government to ban aggressive marketing of consumer loans. Then the government reported back in retrospect that no then, this was already taken care of. So one lot is just going to follow the decision of the Storting. Therefore, there is a need for clearer, clearer tools from the Storting side and, in order to say that the marketing of consumer loans is not necessary. Those who want consumer loans have a good chance of getting it in Norwegian society, without having to market that kind of loan. This is not least about setting a framework for some of the most brutal actors, offering the most brutal products to some of the weakest in Norwegian society. Therefore, there is also a need to take further action in relation to one more thing, and there is a ceiling on interest rates and costs – not only expounded but also made concrete proposals. Fortunately, in Norway — so far — we have not had so many players who have offered the worst loans, there is no reason not to set an interest rate ceiling. On the contrary, there is an important reason why we should now be leading was and ensure that the actors who have offered their services in our neighbouring countries that introduce interest and cost ceilings do not choose to move to Norway because we have not been out early enough. Financial stability is important in many areas. It is important, not least in a crisis situation, to ensure that we have a large proportion of Norwegian banks and banks belonging to Norway. It has a set of crises in the past that are important, and therefore one should also facilitate the strengthening of Norwegian banks – not only Norwegian banks at large but also ensure that one has well-functioning banks and banking systems throughout our long-term country. In that case, savings banks are not least very important. If one is to have a well-functioning capital market in Norway and contribute to financial stability, it is important to have a well-functioning stock exchange in Norway. The answers that have so far come from the Minister of Finance regarding ownership of Oslo Børs are very little reliable. The centre party voted against the conversion of Oslo Børs into AS in its time, precisely because we feared that Oslo Børs would become a branch in a European stock exchange group over time. It turned out to be wise from our side, that time. But those who were in favour of that decision at the time, among others. The Progress Party argued that one should have ownership restrictions that ensured a privately spread ownership of the stock exchange in the future. Now, two one's hands completely and say that this is all the way up to the owners of the stock exchange, one's not willing to use the instruments to which one has a duty under the law, to provide what is best for the Norwegian capital market. More powerful instruments are needed to support the Norwegian capital market and to contribute to good services throughout Norway. I would like to take up with it the proposals No. 9-14 and 17-22.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2303	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2308	For several years SV has been concerned about how housing prices affect financial stability in Norway. We are not alone in this. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, has for several years warned that the housing market is overpriced in many parts of the country. This means that there is a risk that many people who have purchased a dwelling may experience a sudden fall in housing prices, thus increasing the level of indebtedness. A number of economists have pointed out that the Norwegian tax system contributes to increasing the pressure on housing prices. In 2018, the tax benefits to owners of dwellings amounted to over 35 billion. kr. This includes municipal property taxes. These are tax advantages that benefit them with the most expensive and expensive dwellings. And this is money that could go to lower taxes to people most, or to increased well-being. Many of them with the lowest income are outside the housing market and are thus not allowed to share in these tax advantages. SV is a follower of the Norwegian owner line. The fact that the largest possible owner of his own dwelling is important for the individual and for the housing market as a whole. At the same time, we see that the Norwegian ownership line is threatened by precisely the high price increase. As housing prices increase, entry into the housing market becomes more difficult for initial start-ups. An effective approach to a more redistributive tax system is to reduce the tax advantages of property while reducing the tax on labour. This has been proposed several times in our alternative state budgets. It's a grip most people get off well, and it's an important move to strengthen the financial security of households. In terms of climate and climate risk, we see that the government has not done a particularly thorough job here either. There is also no material intervention to address climate risk. Norway is facing major shifts in the years that are coming, when the world is going to cut emissions and get away from fossil energy. The Norwegian economy is closely linked to the extraction and export of fossil energy and is therefore facing significant challenges in the coming years. The Norwegian economy is far better off with a planned transformation of the economy than with a fall in demand for fossil energy. This year’s notification of climate risk is now more appropriate than last year’s notification. That's very good. At the same time, the government is pleased to make non-binding formulations on more knowledge of the topic. While this is important, it is far from sufficient to address the climate risk in the Norwegian economy. Climate risk and climate change mitigation must form part of the basis at all levels of government, and business must be required to report on climate risk. I would like to address the proposals put forward by SV, together with the Greens/Reds/Environmental Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2327	The representative of Solveig Skagvoll Foss has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2333	Consumers need special protection and good justice in financial markets. They may have bad intentions to assess the risks, costs and return potential of some financial services before contracts are concluded. These are decisions that have a strong impact on the private economy, such as the admission of loans to housing and the choice of pension product. There are decisions a few times in life, and there is little room to try and fail. Consumer protection must therefore be central to the regulation and supervision of the financial market. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the rights of consumers are not weakened. As a result, we have repeatedly stressed in recent years that it is important to protect the Norwegian general guarantee of 2 million bank deposits. kr. This option has all governments, regardless of the batch color, supported. The message will again state that the government is still working towards the EU with a view to continuing this guarantee level in the future. That's good, and the Christian People's Party will again stress how important it is. A working group has undergone different options related to possible changes to the rules for guaranteed products. The Christian People's Party will again underline what was said the latter in the Inner East. 360 S for 2016-2017, on the financial market notification in the past, that it is not relevant to take remedies from customers or to weaken their position, and that any changes must be made by increasing customer choice. There's been a lot of growth in consumer loans for a long time. Consumer loans can be a good thing for customers who have the ability to pay, but for customers who do not have the ability to pay, the loan creates major financial problems. It is positive that, from 1 July, the financial industry will have access to more additional information on the debt burden to potential customers, through the debt register. This could result in fewer people who would not have received expensive consumer loans. It can help more people who are in a vulnerable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2344	We have several financial market policy objectives: it should contribute to financial stability, it should ensure the proper functioning of capital markets and provide a good framework for the financial industry, and consumers should be able to trust that financial services are good and safe. This is what the annual financial market notification is about. The cost to society of financial market turmoil and crises can be high and long-term. Good soundness in Norwegian banks was a strength for the Norwegian economy during the financial crisis. Good soundness will be a strength for both the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian financial industry in the future. We must not let this insight go into the forgotten book as the financial crisis gets further away. When the EU capital requirements rules are now incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the changing capital requirements of the banks result. The Basel I floor is repealed and the SME discount is introduced. In isolation, this results in lower capital requirements for Norwegian banks, especially for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, it is important that we do not weaken the soundness that was built up in the banks after the financial crisis. For this reason, the government has announced that we will shortly send to the consultation possible changes in bank buffer requirements, which may prevent undesirable deterioration of bank capital requirements. At the same time, we will look at the possibilities of EU legislation to achieve similar capital requirements for Norwegian and foreign banks in Norway. There is also something the financial industry itself has called for. The Government has recently decided to continue its current criteria for identifying systemically important banks. A proposal from the Financial Supervisory Authority on a specific regional criterion would lead to higher capital buffer requirements for some larger regional savings banks than for other banks. Historically high debt in Norwegian households continues to cause concern. Good soundness in the banks is part of the defense. Another is the regulation of bank lending practices for residential loans and, from February this year, consumer loans. We have now started the process of assessing whether the housing loan regulation should be continued when the current regulation expires at the end of the year. The growth in consumer loans is worrying, and comes to the top of the already high housing debt. We have done a lot to sharpen this market and give consumers a better basis for their decisions, and we closely follow developments to assess the need for further regulation. In this year’s Communication, climate risk and sustainable finance have been given considerable attention. It reflects the fact that these themes have been put on the agenda both nationally and internationally. That's good and necessary. As a lender, insurer and investor, the financial industry plays an important role in the transition to a low-emission economy. The Government agrees with the Climate Risk Committee that Norwegian authorities should build knowledge of the climate risk in financial markets and that climate risk should be included in the reporting by large companies. Overall, profitable projects in Norway appear to have good access to finance. At the same time, we will continue to work to facilitate access to risk capital and competent investors, including among others. assess the recommendations of the Capital Access Committee. We have also clarified the rules on lending through public funding platforms and will closely monitor developments in the EU in relation to a possible common regulation of public funding. Rapid technological and market developments and new rules opening up to new entrants could lead to major changes in the financial services market in the future. Also on the government side, there is innovation: during the year, a regulatory sandbox for fintech will be put in place in the Financial Supervisory Authority. Here selected actors shall be given the opportunity to test their concepts on a limited number of customers. More and more people are using almost exclusively digital financial services. It has its counterpart in the fact that the use of cash has fallen dramatically, and the banks have adapted their infrastructure accordingly. The Communication gives a clear signal to banks that they still have to fulfil the obligation they have to offer and accept cash. Otherwise, it may be necessary to clarify this obligation in law or regulation. Finally, the objectives of Norwegian financial market regulation are stability, quality and security. At the same time, producers of financial services must have good framework conditions. These considerations do not necessarily contradict each other. A secure and stable financial sector has a value for enterprises, it contributes to trust between actors, and is a good starting point for innovation in financial services. Therefore, sound financial market regulation is also a competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2383	The consumption debt of the Nordics has tripled in less than ten years, from just over 40 billion. NOK 117 billion. kr. The defaults and losses have been relatively low, but we see that they are increasing. Last week the Financial Supervisory Authority published a study showing that 470 000 individual requirements totaled 23 billion. kr in defaulted consumption loans are for collection. It affects many people. How does the Minister of Finance feel that the measures taken and reported in this Communication will help those who have problems paying their consumption loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2390	Let me first say that I am very pleased that – I think – a unanimous increase has the same concern for the development of this market and that there has been broad agreement on the measures that have been implemented. Now, of course, this debt register will also be in place on 1 July. In the middle of all of this, we see that the measures work, so it's actually a lot of things to enjoy. Finance Norway has just published that a fall in this market is now expected in 2019 – the first quarter showed zero growth. It is gratifying, and Finans Norway itself says directly in the news issue they released yesterday, that it is important to allow the measures that have now been implemented to work. They therefore believe that they work, but at the same time they believe it is important that we follow the market closely and that we punish those who break the rules thoroughly. This is done by the Financial Supervisory Authority through the regulation laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2395	In my question, I tried to focus on those who have already received a loan that they should not have had, a loan that goes against good business practices and at least against the guidelines that are in force. Now they're in regulation. How can these measures help those who have already received – and have difficulties in paying – their consumption loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2402	The measures we have taken are primarily about controlling the development of consumer debt. It's about having better regulation, so that no more people get into trouble, to say it like that. So, of course, up in all of this, it's a balance through the private responsibility of each of us not to take on more debt than we can serve. The government is now going through many different parts of the legislation for this, such as debt collection, etc., but not under my responsibility. I believe that we are attacking this quite broadly in order to provide adequate protection, while not taking away the flexibility that lies in this market for those who are able to manage their own economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2409	A new theme: we've seen a lot of research. One has been made by the Finanzverbund on behalf of their members. One is done by the Institute for Social Research, which has as its theme: How do you pay like work, but done by a man and by a woman – equal pay for equal work? The financial industry is of those who are the worst at paying employees of different sexes for the same work. We have, together with other parties, made a proposal that we want to get a report on it in next year's financial market announcement, a little bit about how it stands, and about what could be done. Is there anything that the Council of State sees could be of interest to know more about?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2416	Let me first say that equal pay is also important in the financial sector. It is the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality who is responsible for this policy area, but I want to stress the responsibility of the industry itself to contribute both to equal pay and to equality. It is not a responsibility that the industry can dissociate itself and leave to political authorities alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2423	One of the most important tasks for us as elected representatives and for a government is to take care of the little man and the little lady in meeting with the big system. When it's been about cash here earlier today, and the right people have to pay with cash, there are many in the Norwegian community who feel that they are not getting that right in a good way today. One thing is what the communication says about putting further pressure on banks, but also as a consumer, many have a challenge today. What kind of instruments does the Council of State think it makes sense to implement to ensure that the right one has through the fact that cash is a compulsory means of payment will become a reality for all people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2432	Here the government fully agrees with the Central Party. Therefore, we have also been very clear that cash should be a means of payment in Norway in the future. Of course, it's about people having the right to choose it, but it's also about another important thing: security and preparedness in Norwegian society. We have not even come to the conclusion that it is the right time to liquidate the use of cash in Norway. Therefore, it has been important for us to be in dialogue with the banks about this, in order to ensure that there is access to cash across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2440	It is good that the government shares the ambition and goal, but what is also a government responsibility is actually to come up with measures and make proposals for legislative changes that actually ensure that the right that one has is respected in practice. I have another question, a little bit of an extension, for another challenge that many Nordics face, is that one is being denied basic banking services. This applies not only to individuals, but also to companies that have experienced such things. have been excluded from Vipps, which is a very basic service in a modern society such as Norway. Will the State Council consider either extending the scope of the Financial Complaints Board to cover also complaints from organisations and businesses or, where appropriate, looking at other measures to safeguard fundamental rights for consumers and businesses in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2449	Let me first remind the representative Gelsvik that the subject of the Financial Complaint is a private body, so it is not that easy for the Minister of Finance to impose on the parties there to make changes, they almost have to make an assessment of themselves. In general, very few people experience being denied access to banking services in Norway. It is then necessary, through different legislation, for banks to make certain assessments. These include: on the law on money laundering and other things, which I believe create target conflicts in some contexts. In general, however, it should be easy to obtain a bank account and access banking services in Norway, and I would say that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2456	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2463	Responsible lending practices and credit issues are important and necessary pieces in our society. But the Nordics now have 117 billion. kr in consumption loans, and SEK 23 billion. kr of these are actually misguided. There are 470 000 collection claims. This is a danger sign. Why doesn't the growth in consumer loans stop? Why is Norway in full debt? And why did the debt register come so late? I want to start with the debt register. It was pottery clear in 2013 from us red-green, but was not introduced – for ideological reasons – by the right government, because it was supposed to be private. This has resulted in a six-year postponement. The debt register would have been a good tool to slow down the development of debt. How many have actually received loans in this period that they should never have had? So Norway is at the top of debt statistics, at the top of debt collection, at the top of debt collection and at the top of debt collection. There is no reason to shout at these top positions. There are many examples of totally unparalleled extra costs that arise from small requirements, such as: toll handling and other small requirements for several hundred patches, which amount to NOK 4000 in a relatively short period of time, and also collection requirements, which are sent while one is still in hospital. As the case spokesman said, the Labour Party will tighten. The lenders are currently asking for little of the risk of loss because they are selling failed loans to recover. It must also put in place a lower premise limit on where a person can coerce house and home, and own collection rules when dealing with a disease. The working party today requests that you do not be able to use the debt collection agency and the principal when the loan does not meet the legal and regulatory requirements. There must be rice behind the mirror. The working party will also have a cost cap on how much a loan can raise when the debtor is unable to pay. The only measure taken by the government was the freezing of debt collection fees when a mass collapse said the collection was too high. The increase from 700 kroner to 730 kroner was not completed. But the rate of writing, which makes it even more worthwhile to send to the namman is possible, was increased. It has to be handled. Fagric words are not enough. Even back to the old Roman right, one thought of it as inhumane to enslave people for trifles.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2482	Growth in consumer loans is of concern. Last year, the Nordics had a total of 113 billion. kr in consumption debt, and the debt represents an increasing proportion of the interest expenditure in Norwegian houses and homes. Too many people are tempted to take up loans that may seem simple and fast, but end up in pure nightmares. As a society, we can't sit and watch. We have a social responsibility to avoid our fellow human beings getting into a debt crisis they never get out of. If too many people incur a debt they are unable to service, it is not just the individual's problem. It is then, to the greatest extent, a problem for the whole of Norway and our economy. I am therefore very pleased that the government and the finance minister are taking the challenges seriously. We must protect the consumer and have therefore banned the most aggressive marketing. We give the consumer a better overview by showing all outstanding debts on the invoice. We're tightening up who the banks can borrow out to, and the banks have to bear more of the risk of their loans. Those measures must be followed up by more stringent penalties when infringements are detected. Consumer protection shall be strengthened. 1 July comes the Debt Register, which will show people's consumption debts. It will make it easier for banks to make a good credit rating and more difficult to issue consumer loans to people who cannot serve them. It will also provide the consumer with a better overview of his own economy. It is very good that the four non-socialist parties will also consider getting other liabilities into the register, so that it becomes even more transparent and accurate. The government has done a lot to tighten up, and now we are beginning to see the effect — the last time today with Finans Norway and a expected dampening in the growth of consumer loans. But we're not on target. If growth continues, we need to put in place new measures. It's about taking care of our fellow people and the country's economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2495	Consumption loans are useful if you have a temporary need for money, order of the economy and the ability to repay before interest becomes too high. For those who fail to do so, loans create major problems quickly. We know that debt problems often make people sick, both physically and mentally. Their closest ones are also greatly affected. A situation where it is too easy to obtain consumer loans that only increase problems creates problems for the individual, and it is also expensive for society. The working party believes it is important to put an end to the fact that many people get loans they should never have had. The studies carried out by the Financial Supervisory Authority show that the consumer lending banks do not comply with the provisions of the Financial Undertakings Act on good business practice or the guidelines. The new regulatory framework must make it easier for the Financial Supervisory Authority to respond to non-regulatory banks. Unfortunately, the government has had such a strong need to privatize that we lost six years before we got a debt register in place. A public debt register was planned in 2013. Now there is a requirement to check with one of the private debt registers from July this year. How many have received loans they should not have had, over the six years the government of Solberg has spent establishing a private debt register? We do not know, but we encourage everyone to bring their case before the Financial Complaint Board if they believe they have received a loan in violation of the law. The Labour Party has proposed that the debt register should cover all liabilities, not just consumer debts, for tax debts, contributions and student loans, may be hidden for up to two years before they become visible on the tax return. We believe that the banks bear too little of the risk of loss because they sold defaulted loans further to recovery. We have to ask ourselves if the banks should be able to use the debt collection agency and the tax collector when they grant loans without meeting the requirements of law and regulations in the borrowing process. The working party also believes that it is necessary to set a ceiling on how much the cost of a loan can be incurred, when the debtor is unable to pay. We don't want an interest rate cap. We are afraid that it can be used by the lenders as a floor, or that interest below the ceiling is perceived as low. For those who can operate their loans, consumer loans are a good thing, and we believe the market works for them. Politically, we need to focus on those who can't pay back, and then it doesn't help whether the interest rate is 7, 14 or 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2510	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2522	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. That's a lot of things, so we're going to have to be a little patient today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2531	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party; There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the light of new information from Avinor on defence investment at Evenes, Prop. [[2018–2019]] 60 S Report back to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for a new rapid handling." The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2557	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 is asked to return to the Stortinget by cancelling existing plans for ownership, construction and installations in Inner Troms against the real need for the destruction of Norwegian and Allied soldiers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2572	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a separate case to the Storting that clarifies all the costs and new factors resulting from the establishment of MPA at Evenes before the start of the work.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government, at the latest in connection with the State budget for 2020, to present a case with all ongoing military activity projects on Andy Island.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to wait for all ongoing projects on the Evenes link to MPA until alliert reception report is handled by Stortinget.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2608	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party – adopts the President – and Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2624	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the planned efficiency of maintenance in the Defence does not result in further privatisation, downsizing, poorer working conditions or loss of maintenance competence in the Defence.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2657	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reorganise the clean-up in the defence sector under its own control when the current contract with the external private supplier expires in January 2020.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2678	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the limitation should not be used as a basis for rejecting applications or appealing for compensation for veterans with psychological damage from foreign operations.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2711	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review Norway’s cooperation with the EU in the field of statistics and to propose red tape within current legislation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review Norway’s cooperation with the EU in the field of statistics and to propose changes to current legislation, including agreements with the EU, in order to reduce red tape.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2749	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ingrid Heggø, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 3, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4–6, by Sigbjørn Gülsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party proposal No 7, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 8, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party on the Environment There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Nine and ten from the Center Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a legislative amendment which implies that it is the Stortinget that will adopt the multiannual national statistical programme.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to examine how best to organise statistical users, including most people, in order to influence the national statistical programmes and, in general, the statistics produced, how to make statistics available and similar.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2794	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2799	President! The Labour Party has already given its support to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2804	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make available to the population in its own way, free of charge, all the SSB’s data which are not sensitive to privacy or national security.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legal proposals to the Storting, which make it clear that the general rule for the operation of the SSB is full openness and sharing of all information, including raw data.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2826	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the regulation to determine that the SSB cannot require users for more than real marginal costs to produce custom data sets and similar services.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e2843	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that previous political leaders are followed up and that SSB-Kongswinger is strengthened in terms of annual work and content’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit the regulations of the Statistic Law for the Storting before its entry into force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3180	Alternatively, the fifth paragraph of Section 19 and the proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Act on Official Statistics and the Central Statistical Agency The Council of the Statistical Central Bureau shall have fifteen members appointed by the King of the Council of State for a period of four years. [[5]] Members may be appointed for a total period of up to 12 years. In addition, two representatives are appointed by and among the employees’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3203	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new third sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 19 of the Statistics Act is replaced by the following: In addition, two representatives shall be appointed by and among the members of the team.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3223	Alternatively, there is a vote between § 21 and proposal No. 7 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 21 of the Statistics Act is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide the necessary regulations to fulfil Norway’s statistical obligations under the EEA Agreement up to XX. June 2019 [[date of adoption of the Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3242	It is voted on Section 4. The centre party has now notified subsidiary aid. Then the President has reason to believe that it will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3254	All remaining paragraphs are added to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3264	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3274	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e3299	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the system of national prospectuses and to submit proposals to wind up the scheme if the result of the analysis so requires.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e4416	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e4426	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e4435	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 2, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 3, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4–6, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 6, by the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with a proposal to amend § 1-2 of the Norwegian Bank and the money services, etc. [[central banking law]] which obliges the central bank to contribute to the achievement of the climate objectives of Norway through international agreements, and to carry out ongoing assessments of the impact of climate change and economic and political changes on the Norwegian economy.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to amend the State pension fund law, which requires the fund to take account of climate and climate risks and to work for reduced greenhouse gas emissions internationally.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e4472	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to include Norway’s Bank and all its activities in the target law and the working language to be Norwegian throughout the business.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e4489	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to present legislative proposals which imply that Norway’s Bank continues to have a statutory obligation to issue coins and circulation coins with special features, and that responsibility for the selection process of such coins is transferred to the Ministry of Culture.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5446	Alternatively, between § 1-6 and proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on the Bank of Norway and the MMF [[central banking law]] Before taking a decision of particular importance, the matter shall be referred to the Ministry.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5464	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5470	We'll take care of that. Then there are 89 votes in favour and 8 votes in favour. Alternatively, the first paragraph of Section 2-13 and the proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on the Bank of Norway and the money services, etc. [[central banking law]] The Governing Council shall appoint an Executive Director of the Management of the State pension fund abroad by the Bank of Norway.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5489	It is voted over new § 6. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5503	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5508	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5520	The rest of the law is voted on with all the remaining paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5530	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5541	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5583	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal for the best way to implement a full or partial extraction of the fossil energy shares in the SPU with a view to further reducing SPU’s stock of assets exposed to oil and gas activities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a proposal for a tightening of the coal criterion with the aim of eliminating all coal investments in the SPU.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal for a framework on how SPU can exercise a more active ownership with a view to changing the integrated energy companies’ own investments to an increased share in renewable energy’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5626	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 4, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 5-9, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Ten and eleven from the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up guidelines requiring that a maximum part of the Fund’s activities be carried out from Norway.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks that the activities of the oil fund in Norway be more widely disseminated so that it can participate in the whole country.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5665	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-9, by the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the scope of the environmental mandate.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess the mandate for investment in non-listed infrastructure every two years, with a view to extending the mandate in size.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a review of the investment of the oil fund in weapons companies, both the final producers of weapons and weapon systems, as well as the producers of key components of weapons, in the context of next year’s management notification.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests a proposal for a supplement to the coal criterion which includes companies building or planning to build new coal-fired power stations.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks for a return to next year’s management notice with a proposal for a final phase-out date for all coal investments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5702	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting the establishment of a product criterion in the guidelines on the observation and exclusion of gambling companies operating illegally in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5719	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks whether it is appropriate to introduce ex ante filtration into the State pension fund abroad, where companies are assessed in particular with a focus on ethical risk assessment and climate risk assessment before making an investment decision.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new and more thorough review of the possibility of developing ethical guidelines for the investment of the oil fund in government bonds, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Storting with proposals for a strategy to strengthen the human rights of the Fund’s responsible management with a particular focus on investment in conflict areas, including occupied areas. The strategy should be enshrined in the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Companies.’.» [[UNGP]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5762	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 5, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 6, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 9, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 10, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 11-13, from Sigbjørn Gülsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Greens and Reds proposal No 14, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and Red Party the proposals No 17-22, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 15 and 16, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party For the sake of order, the President shall draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 8 was not picked up. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the shadowing scheme can be reintroduced and what steps the Storting and Government can take to achieve this and come back to the Storing with this since spring 2020’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the local government to give the local government the status of a promotional bank and to grant loans to the local government sector so-called zero weight in the weighted capital adequacy requirements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5819	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19-22, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the contractual obligation is complied with and that the infringement is charged and sanctioned.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The UK Government asks that the Finansklagnændende be given an extension of the mandate, for example: to also deal with complaints from organisations, traders and enterprises, where appropriate. organisations and enterprises of a certain size.’» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to produce a public inquiry to assess the need for new solutions and rules to ensure access to cash as a fully-fledged response in the event of long-term failure of digital payment systems.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget since spring 2020 with a concrete proposal for a system for the simple transfer of services such as eInvoice and AgreementGiro between accounts.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5853	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that financial supervision monitors and analyses the impacts of climate change on financial risk in Norway and that climate risk assessment is part of the mandate of the Financial Supervisory Authority.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require the Financial Supervisory Authority to carry out a stress test of climate risk in Norwegian financial institutions.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5875	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party and Red. ‘The government asks the government to return to the Stortinget since the spring of 2021 with a proposal to extend the investment universe of the State pension fund Norway to, for example, also to include unlisted shares.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5890	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to further reduce banks’ access to risk outside the core business.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget as soon as possible and late in the spring of 2020 with a proposal to ban return commissions.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for the introduction of cap rates in Norway in the context of the State budget for 2020 at approximately the same level as the Finnish interest rate ceiling.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5918	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a sample to assess how to increase the market shares of banks and financial institutions resident in Norway and return to the Stortinget with a notice on this since the spring of 2021.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5933	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget since spring 2020 with a proposal to ban the marketing of consumer loans.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5948	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to identify the reasons for the large gender pay gap in the same type of financial sector position and return to the Stortinge in next year’s financial market notification.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5963	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to propose a legislation to ensure that free-of-charge holders are paid their pension entitlements.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5980	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive industrial policy for the financial industry to come back.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e5995	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a legislative proposal to ensure that consumer loan banks cannot sell consumer loans due or use the public collection apparatus if they are unable to demonstrate that the requirements for granting loans were met.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to the Storting a ceiling on costs that protects consumers in difficulties of payment against excessive costs and uncontrolled debt growth.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget by spring 2020 with a concrete proposal on how account number portability in Norway can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a concrete proposal to expand the debt register in the context of the State budget 2020’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-12.ana.ud337e6060	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
