ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e89	The representative Mudasar Kapur, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Elisabeth Fanghol. For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas and Anne Sandum. For the Hordaland counties: Sigurd Hille and Toril Selsvold Nyborg. For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai and Olivia Corso Salles. For Nord-Trøndelag: Bjørn Arild Gram. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Hege Haukeland Liadal from 9 April to 11 April to take part in the 140th session of the Interparliamentary Union in Doha, Qatar by the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik from 9 April until further notice by the Workers’ Group on the leave of the representative Jette F. Christensen on 10 and 11 April in order to take part in the Spring session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Martha Tærud 9 April and until further notice For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande 10-11. April For Rogaland County: Julia Wong 9.-11. April
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e177	Martha Tærud and Julia Wong are present and will take the seat. Under Mr Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg's leave, alternate Mr Camilla Strandskog is proposed to meet during the period of leave from 9 April until further notice. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e196	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. We'll have a nice spring, I think! The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e203	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra and myself, I am promoting a proposal to create an environmental complaint in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e208	The representative, Ms Sangtarash, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e213	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to propose to stop the closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund. In this case, there is no time to lose, and I therefore ask that the proposal be dealt with urgently in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e218	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward three representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e224	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I am promoting representative proposals for the automatic publication of the wage provisions in collective agreements which have a lower wage level than 80 pst. of average wages and salaries of industrial workers. Furthermore, on behalf of the representatives of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Siv Mossleth, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I promote representative proposals on HMS cards in construction and works sites. Finally, on behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Ole André Myhrvold, Geir Pollestad and myself, I promote proposals for increased use of wood as construction material.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e233	The representative of Une Bastholm will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e238	I am delighted, on behalf of myself, to promote two representative proposals – one on meeting the demands of climate strikers and one on a policy for a healthier and more sustainable diet for the benefit of people and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e243	The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e248	On behalf of the big business representatives Heidi Greni, Ole André Myhrvold, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I propose that the municipalities be given authority to exercise discretion when driving snowmobiles from the bridged highway to the cabin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e253	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e273	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e282	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and all its contributions to these matters in my role as rapporteur-in-Office. The Committee has had a thorough consultation with a wide range of organisations and stakeholders, and I would like to thank the participants at the hearings for their input and the Ministry for the complementary answers to questions in the case. The main impression of the consultations and documentation submitted is that this is a proposal which will create further uncertainty for the industry and is not wanted by the industry itself. It is also the position of trade union representatives in their consultation responses. The proposal is known to limit both existing and future authorisations for aquaculture. The argument is to time-limit the use of the general public. Initially, I would like to point out that the time limit of the permits will not in itself imply a time limit in the use of the general public because it is managed by the regulatory authority, namely the municipality. In addition, a proposal has been made for smaller companies to be able to rent concessions. When the majority oppose this proposal, there are several obvious reasons. Firstly, an auction of such permits was recently conducted. These were sold from the state to the private sector, and the money was mainly distributed to the municipalities through the aquaculture fund. The proposal – for one year after these permits were sold and, while the first generation salmon has not yet grown out of these permits – to introduce a fall-back is not in line with a foreseeable industrial policy or administrative practice. Secondly, this will create further uncertainty in an industry which, despite today's good profitability, is facing higher costs, stronger competition and strong regulatory and political pressure, which is already creating uncertainty about future activities, such as: other proposals to be considered here today, which the proposer would also like to consider. Thirdly, by reducing predictability and increasing risk and reducing the balance significantly for companies, this will create higher financing costs for companies, which will result in lower competitiveness, lower profitability and lower tax revenues and tax potential for industry. A clear countermeasure for this part of the industry, which has not already done so, is to govern ownership from other countries in order to avoid part of the tax bill. Fourthly, we are concerned about the willingness to invest the necessary funds in plants, animal health and the environment when the permit time horizon expires. This is definitely an industry in which the perspective of eternity should be at the root of the activity. Fifthly, I fear, especially in those cases where several permits fall back at the same time, a significant breach of Norwegian production. Of course, you cannot put fish in the sea that will take longer to get ready for the market than the remaining time on the concession or permit. In particular, this is the case if existing permits were to lapse. It's about approx. 1 000 authorisations, which, on the assumption, will be withdrawn at the same time — unless specific treatment has been envisaged. This presents major challenges for industry, for the continuity of production, and not least – when these permits are to be granted either on a lease or on a sale for a period – for which capital environments would then be able to obtain those permits. Furthermore, there is no doubt that this will trigger liability to current rightholders. This compensation will need to be measured on the basis of expected earnings from an eternity perspective. Last year’s auctions suggest, according to the comments provided by the proposer, a value of existing concessions that are easily available at around 150 billion. kr. I think that prioritizing payment of such an amount in compensation is not what the welfare state's operating space should be used for. Finally, I want to add that this is an exercise I have little sense of. Here one goes without shyness, regardless of the individual's long efforts to create an industry, where many have had to hold their hands with the bank in order to be allowed to feed the fish one more time and have managed to get through – and many have gone under – where they have created an industry based on nothing, with the resources that have been laid down, and the purchases of rights that have been made, and say: No, now you have succeeded, now we want it back. You want to do it with just a pen stroke, and you say, now we take this, and then you can buy it back or rent it. – That’s not how I want to pursue business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e310	Let me start by saying that aquaculture, using the sea to produce food, is one of the most important future industries we have, which already means a lot. That we are also concerned – although this proposal has been promoted – with both predictability, long-termity and safe framework conditions for the industry, there is no doubt. That is not what this proposal is about. It's about a very principleal approach to a pretty big question: who is it that has rights, and how long do they last without the state or the public being able to intervene in any way? That's the question. And that question, I think, the government parties in an unsecured way answer. Because what they're really saying through the answer that we now heard the case rapporteur read out is that if you have had enough capital to buy you an opportunity to farm in Norway, it's a right you should have as long as you have to decide for yourself. That is what the rapporteur said. You're buying $150 million. kr now a permit that you have an eternal right to retain – that is what the rapporteur says. I think that's pretty scary. Because there's big values out there, yeah. We don't want to say that your business is going to end after 20 years, or after 40 years, but we want to be very clear that it's us in common who owns the public in which you have rights to run. That's what the proposal is all about, essentially, and that's what the principle approach to it is. We believe very clearly that it is the state that should have the right to have the resources of the community, and we also believe that it must, of course, apply to fish farming in our common public. Then we're aware that it's not the permission itself that gives you the right to drive the farm, it's going to be given through the Planning and Building Act, and the municipalities are going to be in the picture, etc., but this is the principle approach to it. It is not unusual to set time limits on this in other countries, but it is in Norway that we have not taken a decision on this issue. So now it's like an eternal right you buy, and then it's no wonder that permits are expensive -- so expensive that they might undermine the growth potential of many companies today. Because that's how, as the rapporteur says, if it's this majority that's allowed to rule, it's an eternal right you buy. We think it's part of giving up the price for permits. We think it's part of putting capital into paper and not necessarily into innovation, technology, development, etc. So we have a different approach to this case. We are promoting this proposal first because we believe that the Storting must establish that the right to operate aquaculture in our common general public should be limited in time. That doesn't mean, as I said, that it will end automatically after 20 years or after 40 years, and that you have to buy a permit again – here are many ways to do it. But the principle is to establish that these are the values of the community, and it's the property of the community that a driver operates. The opposite, not confirming it, is saying that one has eternal rights. I think it's a little bit suspicious in the situation we're in. As far as the framework itself is concerned, we are asking very clearly that the government carry out a thorough investigation into this in order to introduce a time limit into new authorisations for aquaculture, and then come back to Stortinget on how this can be implemented. We are quite clear – and we believe it is fully possible – that it should be implemented in such a way that it provides both sufficient predictability and long-term for investment, innovation and sound operation. Then we record that the government parties consistently say that this contributes to creating uncertainty, etc. I believe that it helps to create predictability and certainty that it is the community that owns these incredibly important frameworks for this industry and the values that lie there, but it is fully possible within the framework that lies there to adapt to the further development of the industry. We think that's the right way to do it, because we think it will also dampen the price increase in access to new permits, which have of course been defrosted on the basis that these are eternal resources that will lie there forever, no one else will be allowed to decide over it. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e335	The representative of Terje Aasland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e340	We are currently considering a proposal from the Workers' Party on a time limit for permits for aquaculture, also called breeding permits. The proposal is primarily intended for new authorisations, but there is also a desire to evaluate it for authorisations already granted. The main argument used for this is to ensure the diversity of industries and to avoid foreign companies buying holdings along the coast. It is a very worrying proposal, because it is essential for the aquaculture industry to have predictable framework conditions. There was also an overall nutrition committee that stood behind and pronounced in its inwards. 361 S for 2014-2015. Proposalers believe that the price of entry into the aquaculture industry or of increasing capacity has now become so high that it challenges the diversity of industries. They claim that the result can be less innovation, fewer locally owned companies and a weaker basis for future value creation. Maritime use is a capital intensive industry. On the contrary, a time-limit of ownership will facilitate companies with access to a large capital base. The proposal will therefore be negative for smaller companies and more likely to facilitate growth in larger companies and the establishment of international companies with good access to risk capital. The permits granted to a company currently represent a significant proportion of the value of the company. As permits have been accepted as a pledged object in order to secure investments in companies, a time limit will have dramatic consequences for the ability of companies to further develop their business. The LO, the NNN and the Joint Undertaking say in their consultation opinion that today’s aquaculture industry and the future aquaculture industry will require large investments both in equipment development and in research in order to address the challenges facing the aquaculture industry today. If one imposes a time limit, they are afraid that investments necessary for the future will not be carried out. Here I share the concerns of the above-mentioned employee organisations. It would be particularly dramatic for smaller companies, which would normally have a smaller capital base, and with it favoring larger national companies and international groups. There is reason to believe that such a return as the Workers' Party sketches for already granted permits would also be clearly unreasonable and therefore contrary to the Basic Law § 97, inter alia. having regard to large investments to develop the permits, and to the fact that, for a number of authorisations, remuneration has been paid to the State or they have been purchased from other actors. Operators have had legitimate expectations that the permits are not time-limited. A time limit will also contribute to considerable uncertainty about the predictability of the industry in the future, which will be particularly unfortunate as soon as the new traffic light system is introduced. I believe that what the proposers here want to implement is the wrong way to go, and that the proposals will be of little use and rather work against their purpose. The Workers' Party's proposal will ultimately be both contrary to the Constitution and challenging diversity in industry, leading to less innovation in industry, fewer locally owned companies and a weaker basis for future value creation. That is why the Progress Party will also be voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e357	Norwegian aquaculture and Norwegian salmon farming are a success story – an export history, about value creation and jobs. It is also a story about environmental challenges and other challenges – some are solved, some are left to solve. But I think when one discusses these kinds of things, it's important to distinguish between the parties that are for the purpose of breeding, and the parties that are against the idea of drifting salmon farming along the coast. It is important to be aware that salmon farming is a young industry in Norway. Many have changed since the beginning, but there is also an industry of new management, which has changed a lot, and much will change in the years ahead. For the Centre Party, there are two principles that must be established. One is the principle of sustainable and stable framework conditions. The second is the principle of national control of natural resources. There is no automatic conflict between these two considerations - it is possible to achieve both. In the case of existing concessions, it is important to clarify that the proposal providers are in favour of this, and that it should be assessed. I thought the case spokesperson was very unprecise in his presentation of this, contrary to the representative Strifeldt, who was exactly in his presentation of what the proposal is all about. So we want to get this question evaluated. No one should lose on investment one has done. Nothing has been said about the time horizon, nor about the problem that both the Right and the Progress Party have raised: what does one do when one approaches the end of these concessions? It's possible to think of solutions that won't come into the situation of a driver with one or two years of perspective. It's e.g. to think of a solution in which the maturity shall never be less than ten or fifteen years. But the centre party wants to have this cleared out, and then we'll decide on the introduction of a time limit after such an arrangement has taken place. When new concessions are involved, there is a greater degree of freedom. Here one has the same challenges as an approaching expiration time, but it is also possible to imagine schemes to keep this going. Our purpose and our desire is that this should make it easier for smaller players to come in and get concessions. I believe that there will be a need for new actors with new solutions that can start up in the farming industry. We also have a proposal that the state leases out concessions, which we want to introduce. There is also a weakness in the reasoning of the case-speaker. We're kind of thinking a little bit for and against, pro and versus. In his posts it was only versus. One just saw problems with this. But one problem that was not taken into account is the very reason why we have a regulation, a limit for anyone who can drive a farm. It's varied a little bit. Right now, the lice challenge is the delineating factor. One might imagine that in ten to fifteen years' time we will have solved the environmental challenges facing the farming industry, and that will only be the area that is a delimiting factor. Then it's not even certain that there's a need for a concession system like today. That we are at the end of the development of the concession system today, I believe is a wrong idea. The centre party wants us to have national control over our natural resources. Then it's natural to support the proposals that lie here, look forward to the knowledge that a distribution will give, and see how we can secure this within frameworks that are also positive for the industry. When the Right is talking about adrift, it is difficult not to let the tanks fly to the food industry with the sugar tax, the aviation industry experienced with the fare, the fur industry with a ban and the agriculture with the ban on ants. I think it's a little hollow when the Right is talking about persuasion, when we know their history in this great period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e382	There are many good reasons to consider a time limit for farming permits. First, the image can change significantly. Today it's mostly salmon and a little aure. There may be new species and new areas that you want to use in the long term. From a purely management perspective, from a business perspective, from an industrial point of view, it is obvious to have some kind of time limitation in this area as well. Secondly, this is a generalization, so having a system for a relapse of these resources and their use we have a long tradition for in Norway. The concession laws of 1906, 1909 and 1917 – the Castberg Laws, which they were also called – were also the right-hand side in its time. They are not proposing to revert those decisions today, but they were against them. They didn't want the state to take it back after a certain number of years. They're not against time constraints there today, but they were against then, and the case is the same today. It is similar to the petroleum regime, as it is 100 pst. support for today. It's the community's resources and no doubt who owns them. The right side was critical of it when it was introduced early in the 1970s, but not today, today they are too. That's how we can go from area to area, so the principle here is very unclear. I don't understand that the right-hand side is able to retrieve a single principle in this discussion, but what they're referring to is that this is going to be a big change. Then a time can be discussed on this issue – capital base, on which the representative Strifeldt was involved in his contribution. Should we then look at time and have a constructive discussion about time, so that we do not set a time limit that can have economic consequences for the players who have invested in a longer time horizon than 20 years? It's very unusual, but now let's agree on that reasoning, and then we can expand the time-limiting horizon a little bit, but it's also not a willing thing to do. In the case of changes – the caretaker – there are, of course, the most rapid changes in the industry framework under this government. In the field of this Committee, the sugar levy and the fare have been mentioned, but the government is therefore considering the introduction of basic interest before both fishing and farming. It's an evaluation of the mineral laws where they work out and look at changes in the statements for them, too. The fact that this government does not change the attitudes to do business in this country falls on its own. It is not an argument. That's not how we want to pursue industrial policy, said the case spokesman. There is such a driving industrial policy under this government. A change in basic settings. This is a 20-year time horizon and the introduction of a principle for this industry that we have on other uses of the resources of the community. I do not have a proper post from the right in this case, where one actually explains what the policy is, what it actually stands for, except to be opposed to everything that comes from the opposition. One should not pursue industrial policy in this country, so that one is only against something because it comes from the other side and not from one. There is neither a principle nor a claim that the opposition is changing statements, while the government is not. I also want to refer to the Volstad judgment, which has been dealt with earlier. Of course, the big community has the right to introduce these types of restrictions on its resources. There we have a clear and clear Supreme Court judgment, and if a read the basis of the Volstad judgment, one also sees that those who were on the other side of the discussion, far on the way, are some of the fundamentals of this question. I also want to remember the assignment that Stortinget has received. It's the interests of the community we're chosen to manage. It's not the narrow corporate economic interests alone. We have to have a good balance between what is the interests of the community and what is the interests of single actors – in a better way, I think, than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e401	Norwegian aquaculture has been and is a success story, but it is also clear that there are some challenges. The issue today is time-limiting. I think that Terje Aasland from the opposition said it quite well: this is about predictability. So far I agreed – predictability. What is the predictability of operating an industry that is definitely in the districts and is coastal based? There are great values, there is no doubt about it. In the previous period, this was also dealt with and cancelled. I think we have to let the traffic light system that's been working for a while, also keep working. It is about stable framework conditions and predictability, not only for the farming industry but also for the coastal population. What surprises me most in this matter is not what Torgeira Knag County says, because I had expected in many ways. But I'm a little surprised at what the representatives Pollestad and Aasland are able to do. It is clear that this is a contradiction – this is for the best representative of Pollestad – in any context, of course it is. But in addition to what the representative preaches about national control, it must be conceivable that we should also have an industry that has the predictability that prices within what they actually produce can fluctuate. Yesterday at the Evening Post, there was a big article about a land-based farm in Florida, and today's prices make it possible to establish this. So we are not alone in competition in Norway; we are not alone in competing for salmon. Innovation is being called for. Yeah, isn't it innovation with the big mercenaries going to sea? Isn't that innovation we've experienced in the last 20–25 years within what's now a success? Success has become so great that it's even establishment where it might not be as natural. There is no doubt in my view: what happens to this type of proposal, which is repeated at regular intervals – and I am surprised by the two parties mentioned – is that predictability of the industry is weakened. Fortunately, the position is crystal clear that we are not rocking by the predictability that is now. There are also values that come in, not least through the Maritime Fund. Yes, it's true that we have a discussion and an investigation around the so-called ground interest tax. I see that several parties have taken this up at their national meetings and have been very clear in their opinions on it, very clear. I expect those who are investigating this look to you. I have to say I am surprised that the best representatives from the Workers' Party and the Center Party are willing to take the plug out of the bathing water for the farming industry. It's not given that the prices we see now will last forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e416	Like the other government parties, the Christian People's Party will not endorse the proposals that the opposition is promoting in this matter to investigate time limits for new aquaculture permits and to assess whether a time limit can be set for authorisations already granted. The marine industry is very important for the value creation and employment of Norwegian coastal municipalities. Nearly 8 000 people are employed in the production of different types of edible fish, with salmon as the second most important species. And every day more than 14 million meals are served with Norwegian seafood. Last year, 1.1 million tonnes of salmon and trout were exported to a value of 70.8 billion. kr, according to figures from Norway's sea wire. For an industry of such importance for the Norwegian economy and for employment and value creation in District Norway, predictability of framework conditions and operating bases is very important. No more than one and a half years have passed since the introduction of a new regime for growth in the farming industry. The size required further growth for industry to meet certain requirements for environmental sustainable development. A traffic lighting system with associated marine funds was established, whereby companies which do not meet the criteria for salmon-fishing are not given the opportunity to acquire new concessions. It also opens up the need for companies with particularly high lice impacts to reduce the total biomass. The Christian People's Party believes that, shortly after the introduction of the traffic light system, it is unfortunate to intervene as far as possible in the framework conditions for the farming industry as the opposition is now proposing. It will contribute to uncertainty and unforeseeability around the framework conditions of one of Norway’s main industries, mainly located in District Norway. When the Business Committee held a hearing on this matter on 31 January of this year, we took note of several of the arguments against imposing time limits on breeding authorisations submitted by Seamat Norway: It is important to remember that the farming industry is very capital-intensive and that the costs of acquiring concessions are only part of the overall cost picture. Meres, berths, workboats, feeding plants, facilities for the production of semends and the reception of slaughter fish also require significant investment. As the permits represent a significant part of the values of a company, the introduction of time limits for permits to use aquaculture will result in a severe deterioration in the permits as a pledge object. It will again undermine the ability of companies to raise capital for initial investment, especially for smaller companies. The introduction of time limits for authorisations for aquaculture will also create increasing uncertainty about the operation towards the end of the period of operation with a significant loss of production and efficiency during the transitional period when operations are downgraded. It will in turn create uncertainty for employees and adversely affect subcontractors of goods and services. At the hearing, the Christian People's Party noted that the LO was also critical of the Workers' Party's proposal to limit time for authorisations. The representative of the L.A. showed, inter alia: that even a time limit period of 20 to 25 years is not particularly long for the operating time and development of an enterprise. As a result, the risk arises that the necessary innovation and maintenance will fall towards the end of the operating period and create uncertainty for the jobs and investments in HMS actions. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the opposition's proposal is very far-reaching in affecting the predictability of the farming industry in a negative direction. Questions can also be asked about whether such a back-up as the Workers' Party sketches for already granted permits may conflict with the Constitution § 97. The Christian People's Party is therefore going to vote against the proposals that are being promoted in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e436	The aquaculture industry is an important industry that needs stable framework conditions. The government has ambitions for growth in the aquaculture industry and therefore submitted a report in 2015. St. 16 for 2014-2015, Predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout top sport – the so-called aquaculture notification. Growth in the aquaculture industry will contribute to increased food production, increased value creation, increased incomes to countries and municipalities, and not least coastal workplaces. The intention of the proposed representative is to limit the duration of both new and existing breeding authorisations. In addition, the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Trade and Industry Committee shall have the right to arrange for smaller companies to lease permits. The size has had several times in the past the opportunity to discuss time limits for permits. When the Aquaculture Act was adopted in 2005, it was considered that there should be no general time limit for commercial food authorisations. On the other hand, it was said that the use of time limits as an instrument should be reserved ‘cases where there are circumstances which indicate, in particular, that time-limiting is appropriate in view of the needs of the economic operator and/or other interests which the law aims to promote or safeguard’. The 2015 notification states that the overall authorisation system for salmon, trout and rainbow trout is a prerequisite. An overall nutrition committee expressed its opinion at Innst. 361 S for 2014-2015: ‘The Committee also considers it essential for the aquaculture industry to have a predictable framework.’ The size was essentially related to the content of the notification. However, the proposal to introduce a time limit for new authorisations for aquaculture will involve a major change to the current authorisation system. In my view, the same thing will apply to the establishment of a system in which concessions are leased to smaller players. However, I would like to point out that the Economic and Social Committee, when dealing with the notification of aquaculture, said that: «the government may also assess an auction in combination with the fixed price in which the fixed price is paid as an annual amount in a given period». This will, of course, be a moment considered when determining the arrangements for each allocation round. Up to now, we have not found it appropriate to establish such a system, among other things. because there is no evidence that the aquaculture industry has capital access challenges. The auctioning of new permits carried out last year also resulted in small and medium-sized farmers increasing their relative share of the production capacity allocated. This indicates that there is no need to specifically treat smaller actors in the allocation system. There are also other processes concerning the aquaculture industry. A year ago, a broad majority concluded that the issue of resource interest rate taxation on the farming industry and incomes of coastal municipalities should be addressed in a NOU. The government was commissioned to appoint a sample to assess the taxation of aquaculture until the next harvest, i.e. in the current year. This matter falls under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Finance, and she has made it clear that the sample will continue its work as planned, so that the suspension will take place by 31 October at the latest. Predictable framework conditions for industry are important. I believe that an investigation into the time limit of aquaculture permits will help the opposite, namely an uncertainty about the predictability of the industry's future framework conditions, which I believe is particularly unfortunate so soon after the introduction of the new traffic light system, which was introduced for, among other things. ensuring greater predictability of the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e474	I noticed that the Council of State said that the proposers would impose a time limit on already granted authorisations. Where in the world is the Council of State able to find – in the proposals or in the vote – that the proposers in the proposal clearly state that one should have a time limit on already granted authorisations? Doesn't it say that one should investigate it and assess it, and that it is important to have a fundamental explanation as to whether it is possible to implement it? I expect the Council of State to refer fairly correctly to both the proposals and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e479	That is what the Council of State does, and I would like to refer to the wording of the proposal itself. The text of the proposal is to ask the Government to examine ‘for the purpose of introducing’. That is why the proposal itself has put exactly what you want to be the final result, and that is the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e484	It was for upcoming farm permits. For existing ones, it is very clear that such an investigation should also ‘include an evaluation of the duration of authorisations already granted’. But I would like to ask another question: is there any area in this society – thematically or otherwise – where the Progress Party and the Council of State believe that the community should go ahead of private and private interests? Historically, the Progress Party has been to sell out our oil and gas resources, they have been against public ownership of our hydropower resources, they are against state ownership of our forests – they are against state ownership and public ownership. So I wonder, is there any area of society where the Council of State immediately thinks that the interests of the community should go ahead of private interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e491	There are a number of areas for which it is quite natural that the State has the primary responsibility, among other things. infrastructure, defence and justice planning. This is also the case in the power industry and the oil and gas sector — the issue of who owns the base resource lying on the seabed, among others. But what the representative Aasland is trying to bring to the square here becomes a complete derailment in this case, because in the case of breeding permits, there are a number of different conditions attached to a concession. Among other things, the municipalities make the area available. We, as authorities, are the ones that restrict the environment. It is we, as authorities, as, among other things. captures the way in which the crop is to be grown. That is why the Storting itself has been involved in adopting a traffic lighting system precisely in order to obtain predictability within the framework conditions. All of this, on the part of the authorities, we are involved in -- both looking at assumptions for something and changing the assumptions for something, which we can do, among other things. in the case of environmental restrictions. That's why it's important that we have the whole thing with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e498	I would also like to stress that it is important that the Council of State participates in the debate on the basis of what is in the proposal, and not what is in the proposal. But the question of concessions is also closely related to the question of rent taxes and different ways of securing the community's share of value creation. At the annual conference in Seafood Norway, the Prime Minister went quite far in saying that it was time to introduce a basic interest rate tax. So my question to the Minister for Fisheries is, can he confirm that it is not appropriate to propose a basic interest tax on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e505	In the case of the tax regime, the constitutional responsibility lies with another Council of State. So I'm dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e510	I note that the Council of State does not want to answer that, but it is very demanding when two cases are as densely wove into each other as the question of payment for concessions and land-interest tax. There is a direct consistency between the concession system and payment for this and any taxation. When a new concession opened up in the previous round, a height for the situation of introducing a basic interest tax and how it was to be handled in the concession round. So I want to ask again -- and I accept that the council doesn't want to answer that this time either, but I think it's very strange. So my question is again, how is it with the plans of the government to introduce a rent tax for the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e517	Out of respect for the Storting, and on the decision and order of the Storting, a sample has been reduced to look at these questions. That sample shall deliver its setting by the end of October. So just out of respect for the room I'm in, and the representative Pollestad is also in, who has just delivered an order through a decision, we have to let the sample do its job first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e522	It is interesting that we have a fisheries minister who can neither defend nor defend his government's fisheries policy. Here are things that happen in other fields that have a direct impact on the framework conditions of this industry, processes that go into government. The Minister is part of the government. He has his constitutional responsibility, but he is also responsible in a community of government and must be able, I think, to defend this against the Storting. The first bid to be allowed to enter the government must be exactly that. Changes in constitutions placed a great deal of emphasis on the state council in its statement that this will change the constitutions. But here's a discussion about basic interest taxing for this industry through a selection. Would it be a greater change in the industry's commitment to introduce a land-interest tax than to introduce a time-limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e528	The government, which is always sitting at all times, is dealing with this at all times, and when the bulk of the population has delivered a mission to a government, I also think the representative of Knag County believes that we should follow up this investigation work. Then you want to conclude, and then you want to report and come to the Stortinget with just how you're going to implement it. But let me raise a problem. It is a little strange when you claim that the farming industry does not pay for the concessions. If there's an industry that really contributes to being able to produce, it's actually the breeding industry through the concessions, and we see that it started with the growth that we had, through both auctions and new permits, more than 3 billion. kr. We have a farm fund that has added billions of money to municipalities out there. So it's going to be completely wrong to come and say that the farming industry does not contribute through the concessions and the increase in production that you have received. But I can guarantee the representative County that the undersigned can... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e535	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e540	It's very interesting that one here on the one hand is to settle a ground interest rate tax, which is a major change in the framework conditions for this industry, and on the other hand, is one against abolishing a 20-year time limit, because it will change the framework conditions and the industry's regulations. There's no one in this room that can understand it. But I'm going to give the Council one last chance: can he go through the reasoning that led to that conclusion neatly and gracefully?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e545	I think the representative Knag Fylkesnes, no matter what the Council of State has said, would try to reach a completely different conclusion, and I fully respect that. But I think that the representative had also had an even stronger input to this question of the Minister for Fisheries had stood on this platform and said that the government would not implement the Stortinge decision to make the investigation that the representative of Knag County itself has been involved in imposing on the government. We actually have to. So let's do that. It is simply in accordance with the request of the representative himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e550	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e557	The issue we are dealing with today is to be able to see several generations ahead in time, about a relatively young industry in Norway that has developed well and quickly and has become one of our great value creators. It's an industry where the prices of a concession have gone from 0 to 150 million. kr for the 16 years that have gone from 2002 to 2018. For resources on which access is limited, we have a tradition in Norway to ensure that they are not sold out forever, but fall back into the community. When we build up hydropower, we have rules for a fall-back after 60 years if it's owned by private or foreign actors. When the government of Solberg I sold the first Norwegian breeding company out of Norway in 2014, the concessions were owned from Japan. For how long? What is the expiration time of a concession? It is uncertain when nothing is determined. What about the government? Countries that have solved it differently are, for example, Spain, which has rules on repatriation when sold out of the country. As a nation and a community, the Workers' Party believes that we need to have a conscious relationship with and clear rules on how we manage resources that a state concession gives access to. Then we must bear in mind also our grandchildren and great-grandchildren's desire to use the resources of the sea. It could be to business we don't necessarily know anything about today. The values created in our oceans are so large that we can't be blue-eyed and believe that we don't have to think in a generation perspective. The resources shall benefit the community. When the prices of new concessions are as high as up to 200 million. In practice, it will mean that it is virtually impossible for new entrants to enter the industry. What's the government's attitude to that? The NOU Workers' Party has joined, and is in the process, shall determine the basic interest rates on the industry, or possibly a model of how communities will receive part of the return from the business. The working party believes that this sample should also have assessed the rules for the service life of the concessions, with the focus on not hindering development and profitability in the industry. On behalf of future generations, I regret the majority's position in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e576	One might actually start asking yourself what's really going on. The Workers' Party, which has used to refer to itself as the party that has built the country, which has been on the industrial side, and which speaks of light in the houses – it is clearly a line that they have left the longest. The weekend's national meeting in the Workers' Party, which was referred to as an important political workshop, does not appear to me to be exactly that. So when we now deal with this proposal that the representatives of the Workers' Party promoted before the national meeting, it just goes into the series of surprises. What's going on? Nor did it surprise them that seafood was not mentioned as a winning industry. Marine nutrition, which is really one of the country's winning industries, has created optimism, contributes to jobs and, not least, contributes to incredible incomes to our welfare society. So it wants the Workers' Party to take control of. The industry is obviously growing too much, they are making too much money, according to the Labour Party and the left side of the policy. It is money that is made and that is reinvested in a capital intensive industry. Is that what we've really seen on our committee trips, and on my own trips in Norway, that's exactly what the marine food and aquaculture industry has contributed to by activity and housing along the coast. I dare not think about the consequences of such a proposal on the activity we see today, if it had received a majority. Last week, the committee at Austevoll was where we actually saw what the industry has contributed to jobs, housing and investment. There are many more such examples up along the coast. Should the industry be affected by such a decision – which I feel gives a great deal of uncertainty for the industry – most people believe that this will have consequences that we do not see today. As I said, the industry is capital-intensive. Most of the companies are partially or fully integrated companies, from smolt to slaughterhouse, or the food fish facilities have long-term contracts with them. The imposition of a time limit for those holding a breeding permit will contribute to industrial uncertainty and could have a significant impact on other adjacent industries that need predictability, the need to be able to tell the bank that my activity has a good and long-term outlook – and not as it may be if the Workers' Party's proposal is given a majority. The right and government parties take responsibility for the fact that the seafood industry is one of the winners' industries, and we will facilitate its future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e598	What Margunn Ebbesen and the right-hand side of Norway have never realized is that one of the reasons we have achieved such amazing results as society and have built one of the world's most prosperous countries with little differences is that we have made sure that the community's resources are owned and managed by the community. The right-hand side has consistently been on the wrong side, in all these areas where the battles have been fought. They have wanted to privatize our hydropower, which has contributed to industrial development, jobs and value creation to the Norwegian community for many, many decades. They have wanted to privatize our forest, which – through the policy that has been pursued in Norway, where the community owns a lot of resources – has been at the forefront of how to manage forest areas and which have created great values and many jobs throughout Norway. They have been on the wrong side with regard to our fishing resources, where they have repeatedly proposed granting everlasting fishing quotas. Fortunately, Norway has not gone that way, but we have made sure that we own and manage this in layers, which means that there is a lot of activity along our coast. And we can't exactly say that the right-hand side stood in the front row when we found the oil and made sure that we also in that area made sure that we own and operate this. Also in this case, we see that the right-hand side sits on the side of the participating interests, not on the side of the Norwegian people. Why do we want this? We want to secure local ownership. We see a development in which local owners today are almost unable to travel the money to buy new allowances when they are traded. That is why this proposal from the Labour Party that we are discussing is also promoted by local farmers in the aquaculture industry who are looking at a trend that is going in the wrong direction. We want an industry that young people can have a real chance to get into, but everyone understands that when they're traded for 150 million. It is not realistic for young people to enter this industry today. We want an industry that produces local ring-effects, but we see that, through industrialisation and through the emergence of more players on the ground, we are beginning to see, for example, live fish are transported out of Norway to be slaughtered in Denmark, a development I do not want. And we want the local people who make their natural areas – our common common commons – available for nourishment, to get something back. The Labour Party does not have all the answers; that's why we want these questions to be investigated. We wanted to be able to discuss how we can secure these things, rather than the right-hand spinal reflexes, which is that this is not going to be discussed at all. So the right-hand side sits where they are, like a backward and grey party without vision of what's going on for a future industry for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e613	The last speaker has such an inaccurate history description that it is worth an interpellation debate in itself. I would just like to be brief enough to say that when the fall-back of Norwegian power plants happened, it happened from the same industry that he boasted had been created by this. It was Norwegian Hydro, it was Odda, it was Rjukan – it was these industrial communities that had to deliver their power plants back. I've been accused of a low level of precision, and I think I might be going back to the message. It is clear from the proposed document 8 that no distinction is made between future and existing permits. Let me quote from the Document 8 proposal: ‘The proposers consider that, in principle, there are good reasons why all permits have a time limit, including existing permits, but nevertheless believe that it is necessary to clarify what is the legal basis.’ So it's not going back, but if it's possible to get it back, which is the assessment theme of the Workers' Party. The starting point is that it shall return if possible. It's very easy to solve that particular question. Then I ask someone from the Labour Party or from the Centre Party to go up and say that you do not believe that there should be a relapse in existing permits, that is the discussion about it, and then I will stop that discussion as well. But until that happens, this is the basis for the proposals in the case. Then I was accused of being bad at the precision level. Then I will draw the attention to page 4 of the document that has been submitted, and then maybe we can take a little walk around the precision level in a comment like, among other things. The center part is behind it. Here it is written that in Scotland the duration of permits is usually 15 years. That's wrong. It says that the concessions in Canada are initially one-year-old. It's wrong. There is only one province in Canada, namely Newfoundland. In all other provinces that are engaged in aquaculture, and there are quite a few, there are completely different rules. Accuracy level: Spain is mentioned here. Spain is not engaged in salmon farming or trout farming at all. It's hardly relevant to what we're talking about here, because the value of the activity that's there is not at all in that magnitude. It also says that Chile has restrictions on ownership of nationality. It's very strange if Chile had it, because most farm concessions in Chile are owned by Norwegian companies, so they don't have it. That is the level of precision on the basis of what is being promoted here today. So it's like this: the fact that there's created other uncertainty is not a reason for creating even more uncertainty. On the contrary, there is a reason to limit itself. So when the representative Knag Fylkesnes says that because we've created other uncertainties, it's natural to create more uncertainty, I think that's a completely wrong argument, that's a logical flaw. It is the opposite that is the case, it is an argument for creating less uncertainty in the future, or at least no further uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e637	Natural resources – water, fish, soil and forest: It is a fantastic debate we have today, for this clearly shows a distinction both through Norwegian history and through how our country will be governed in the future. It has been said from this pulpit that the Right Party and the Progress Party have accepted the battles they lost – with oil, with hydropower – but there are a few battles that the Right Party has lost, which they still do not accept. How do the market liberalist parties Right and Advance Party want the management of our soil itself, the very reason, to be in Norway? No, it's going to be possible for anyone to concentrate as much of, as much financial value as you want. When the Right Party and the Advance Party were in government – before the so-called centre parties came in – they simply wanted to repeal the Land and Forest Concession Act. So it doesn't matter to come here and tell us that it's not still the old-fashioned, market-liberalistic stuff that lies deep, deep inside those parties. Think about the management of soil. The concession law for soil is, of course, the most nutritious for the industry that can be expected. I'm from the North East Valley myself. Is there anyone in this room who thinks there's going to be production, jobs and future opportunities in the North East Valley if these values are not distributed into more hands and given priority to industry, to production? Because that's where the dividing lines go in this case. There is a red-green, forward-looking alternative that thinks about the possibilities for young, new generations. As our glittering representative from the Nordland Workers' Party said, this is about seeing the long lines. For what happens if you, for example, cancels the Land and Forest Concession Act, is that then Right and Advance Party friends can buy up the whole Østerdalen – without having to live a single person there. There's going to be little nutrient development. That is why this is quite similar to what this House has done in its time to ensure that the hydroelectric power will benefit the country. In 1906, three quarters of the water power was on foreign hands. Fortunately, we had more forward-looking politicians, like Johan Castberg. We need the new Johan Castbergs of our time, like Åsunn Lyngedal from Nordland or Ruth Grung from Hordaland – who are not here today – who are both co-sponsors. It gives hope and distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e649	A Joint Committee of 2015 emphasises in a note that ‘it is also essential for the aquaculture industry with foreseeable framework conditions’. When I joined the nutrition committee in the new year, I thought that this was still the starting point. But then you can take it wrong! For what is it predictable to make proposals that will only contribute to one thing: to create great uncertainty about the framework conditions for one of the industries in which Norway has real potential? Since 2015, the Socialists and the Central Party have given an opposite signal – and have gone in the opposite direction – of what they gave this industry a few years back. For now, consider how to withdraw concessions and make them time-limited. Instead of predictability, it becomes more unpredictable than any other Norwegian industry has experienced in modern times. The proposal provides for the State to be able to withdraw and confiscate concessions and, in practice, to shut down businesses that entrepreneurs and companies along our coast have used generations to build up. I have to say that when I sit here and hear representatives – even from the Workers' Party – talk about farming and aquaculture being the community's resources, you haven't understood much of what work is behind, what has been invested over the years. Here the brave people who have almost pledged houses and homes to join in and create jobs, join in and create Norway’s common well-being. And then you're going to punish them. Last night, I came home from a two - day trip in Northern Ireland — a fantastic value-creating country with many industries that are going well. In 2018, the largest individual industry in the county was raised. Nordland is the largest export group in North Norway, and fish account for more than half of the exports from the county. Thousands of good jobs are created in connection with the industry, and I have met many of these job creators. We sat and ate dinner together, and they said one thing, and it was a particular concern about this proposal, which even the Workers' Party is involved in: Give us more predictability, then we'll be in and create the jobs that Norway needs, we'll be living in the coast and in our districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e660	I feel that there is a need to clarify something that is actually in this case. First, I have to say that I am still in my first period on the Storting, so I'm a little unsure whether this is a parliamentary expression, but it may seem that the position reads this proposal that the hell reads the Bible. It could also be that it's a conscious strategy, so you don't have to deal with the proposal itself. This is about an important issue of value: it is about resources. Should the resources be forever, or should they be on private hands? Is the community going to have an even greater opportunity to decide about the resources we have? Can you at least assess it? That's what's in the matter. The working party is committed to developing a sustainable industry that contributes to growth, creating predictability for investment, and creating innovation and sound operation – as opposed to the right-wing representatives trying to paint an image of it. This is a matter of time limitation of breeding permits, and then there can be no shocking news that we actually want that to be assessed. However, it also states ‘assessment’ to assess the legal, and at least for the existing ones. But the objective is, of course, if it is possible that these should be limited in time. I do not understand that it would be such a shocking information for this hall. Then I just have to say that the Workers' Party has a proud story on our success recipe. It's about getting light in the houses, creating life along the coast, yes, in all communities, then you have to put the community first. It's always going to be our recipe, unlike the right-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e673	I think this is developing to be a very important debate, because it is a debate that has really been going on for over a hundred years in Norway: it is about how somehow we are going to affect the resources of the community, and whether it is important to bring them in. And then the permanent right side has been facing the left side of Norwegian politics. For there is no doubt that the right forces have historically been called upon to privatise, or to ensure that they are the individuals who win, rather than the interests of the community. It's been about our hydropower, it's been about our oil, it's been about our fisheries, and it's been about the forest and the ownership of large parts of the forest property. It's also about the ownership of the companies. And when I ask the Council of State what he thinks about this, if he has any other good examples where the community should own, he mentions the transport sector -- the sector that the government in large measure now privatizes, full speed in the direction of privatisation. There is not one area the Progress Party wants to preserve and protect on behalf of the Community. And when the representative of Hofstad Helleland talks about predictability, I'm a little surprised, because it's the government that's now sitting, which has introduced the sugar levy and the 350-kroner limit, they've said no to fur animals, and they've imposed a seat tax. The first thing they did when they came into government was to propose a floor for the CO 2 compensation scheme for the industry, and now last but not least a ban on the cultivation of ants. So when you talk about predictability for business and for those who feed, I'm a little unsure whether it's right that the right parties can take that word in their mouths. So to the proposal: at least it should be in the interests of the national Parliament to know what time limits or time courses are — related to such an important part of Norway as the out-of-sea public actually represent. Is it that there are eternal rights that we're actually giving? I am fully aware of the impact of the Planning and Building Act and the disposal of the municipality's land, but when you have a right, is it a right that you have forever? Isn't it possible to clarify that question? That's what we're asking. I am therefore also reading the last part of the proposal, because none of the right-wing people are allowed to read the whole proposal. It sounds like: ‘Such an investigation should also include an assessment of the duration of authorisations already granted and whether a time limit can be set for them.’;» That is the proposal. So I'm going to end by taking the representative Ebbesen, who believes that we think the industry serves too much. No, we don't think the industry makes too much. We don't think so. Nor have we proposed any extraordinary taxes for this industry. So it was Siv Jensen, the government's finance minister, who proposed introducing a basic interest tax on the aquaculture industry in Norway. No one else in this Chamber has proposed it, but it is the Minister of Finance who has proposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e694	It might be timely at this point in the debate to ask if it is actually considered that Norwegian petroleum industry is not under the control and control of the Community; it is not there – whether it is considered that the agricultural sector is not under the control and regulation of the Community; it is not there to fall back. After the article into Nils Kristen Sandtrøen, which was about soil, not sea, I might say that it would have been natural to see that if you were to pull his logic out completely, there would also have been a fall-back on food land in Norway, if that's how all the community's basic resources are to be under the control of the state. Because that's what we're talking about here. There's the principal. Then we're now accused of reading the Bible that the hell reads it. What's interesting is that during the article to the person who said that, the damn interpretation was confirmed. If it is a parliamentary expression, I do not know, but I assume that biblical expression can also be held in this Chamber. It was quite clear that it was actually a goal that there should be a fall-back also for existing permits, and there is no shock to us, that's what we've read. The surprise was that Terje Aasland's representative tried to distance himself from it by saying that there is only one proposal for an investigation. But no one in this room is proposing an investigation without having any idea of what you want at the end of that investigation. And then I get to repeat something I've said another time before: whoever's waiting for an investigation isn't always waiting for something good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e705	Johan Castberg said that the community is the community's arm, which can be used to do justice, to protect the weak, to provide – as far as possible – equal conditions for the small and the large, for the promotion of business. Think about it. That's where the whole essence lies, because the right-liberal Civita government is concerned with one thing: money concentration on fewer hands. Then it doesn't matter if the breeding concession costs 150 million. kr, because it is not necessarily production, and it is not necessarily the promotion of business – for the small and for the large, as Castberg said – that counts. What matters is those who sit on more money than all of these in the hall do together. Then the speculation price can be driven to 150 million. NOK 300 million. NOK or to SEK 450 million. kr, for finally, the economy in production is disconnected because it is the interests of capital that permeate the positions of the market liberal right-wing parties – in exactly the same way as it is for soil, as I said in my post. The representative of Tom-Christer Nilsen is as wrong as possible. For what is the impact of concession law? Well, it's that it gets cheaper to produce and cost more to speculate, or – at best – uninteresting to speculate. What did Sylvi Listhaug do when she became Minister of Agriculture? Well, she was just trying to lift the community's ability to control prices so that young people can get in and have a future of food production as work. What happens then? Well, the entrance ticket is getting more expensive. The proposal from the forward-looking red-green parties here will make sure that there is greater hope for new generations to get the entry ticket for production – for the small and the large – for the promotion of business. I've heard that my grandfather may have voted Left. It would have been totally out of date today. How does it proceed to vote on a market-liberalist gang that removes the promotion of business for the small and the large, and that introduces a ban on new cultivation? I guess it's not possible to stay in a country that's built up by using forest. In the end, I just need to quote one of the left's own representatives on the local government in Tolga: it's the way some people are losing contact with what was the starting point of our nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e714	I felt the need to take the word here now, for now there's a lot of talk about community resources. But, dear ones, there wouldn't have been a single farmed salmon in the ocean if it hadn't been for someone investing in this. That's what we're talking about right now. We're talking about the farmed fish, and some people are betting money and their homes to invest in an industry that we have because someone is doing it. We wouldn't have had a single farmed salmon if it hadn't been because these people had invested in it. So one can't talk about this as the community's resources, for this they've spent their own money on, or they've borrowed it from the bank, of course. So please don't mention this as the community's resources. The sea is, yes, but there wouldn't have been anything there if it hadn't been because someone had used their money to invest, create jobs and create optimism. It is said that the Workers' Party does not want to impose taxes on this industry. Dear friend! When a decision was taken last spring to have an investigation, it was on the basis of a majority decision that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and also the Christian People's Party were behind, that a production fee should be imposed in 2017. The government rejected it. Then came a new proposal, from the Workers' Party and SV, where one wanted to introduce the production fee. So they shouldn't say that they don't want to tax the industry, because it's the jam behind them, they too. I hope you can see that this is an important industry, a future industry, but it needs predictability. They don't need us to tell them to return what they have invested.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e726	I'm going to try to clarify a few things about the representative Aasland, because I'm a little unsure about what is really the Workers' Party's position when I hear the statements made by the representative Sandtrøen. His posts, which have nothing to do with fishing, but with everything else – he gets right into the concession law – are really quite different from the posts of the representative Terje Aasland, who is drawing up a fundamental debate. Like Mr Nilsen, I would like to refer to the draft representative. It says: ‘The proposers consider that, in principle, there are good reasons why all permits have a time limit, including existing permits, but nevertheless believe that it is necessary to clarify what is the legal basis. [[...]] That is, it is the legal thing to clarify. The same can be seen in point 1 of the draft representative. In the case of resources belonging to the community, fish and fisheries will be among them. But we control the right to participate in the fishing, among others. by the law of the participant and the turnover by the law of the fishing sale of fish. As far as farming is concerned, we are public authorities that determine the use of land and set of land, while the farmers themselves are given the right to farm under certain conditions under the concession law, which we, as public authorities, set. We don't give away the sea, we don't give away the area, but we give them an opportunity to dispose of it within the given conditions. And it's important to remember the following: it's the breeders, or the companies, who come with the stem fish, who get egg production, who come with the hatchery, who produce the melt, who then goes on to a breeding, you get a food fish that's sent to a slaughterhouse, which in turn creates the product, that goes for sale. So it's the private trader here who runs the whole production line and the whole production chain. But you need a locality, which you can apply for, and which you can get from the municipality, to be able to run your business. Then there are farming concessions that are time-limited. It is also apparent from the odelstungsproposition presented in 2005 that some concessions may be granted with time limitations on the part of the administration. It is done in a number of contexts, but it is not generally the case that there should be a relapse or a time limit for them. So here there's a bunch of different things, and also a lot of statements that come, but it's not like you can run with breeding just as you want. No, you need a location, under given conditions, and you have approval for the production that is, both related to how much you can produce, how you can produce, and what environmental impact is acceptable for you to operate within.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e744	Here was a lot of different things to deal with. The representative of Hofstad Helleland relativises – it seems – the whole question of this is the community’s resources. There's an interesting statement, because on the one hand, there's one thing going on to figure out how to introduce a base rate tax, with all of the things that are behind it because you realize that this is a base rate, that it's a common resource that can be taxed. But when it comes to a time limit, you can't do it, because you don't see it as your community's resource. So one can compare to the housing market -- one wants to draw interest from those who live there, because one owns built, but one should not have a time limit because one owns not built. It's a reasoning that can't be followed. There is no doubt that the sea belongs to the community. We also sign this on the International Convention on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Sea, and we are also free as societies to define its use and of time limits. I experience the article from the Christian People's Party as constructive. There was not really the principal one, but it was the time horizon – 20 years was too short, but maybe 30 years. I feel that there is a flow of that kind of thinking in the Christian People's Party, but surprisingly none of it in the Left, which has now really left its tradition and crossed the borders of Norwegian politics. Then the representative Nilsen picked up oil. I think a lot of what makes people working in the petroleum industry proud is what they've brought to Norwegian society. By 2018, there are a total of 14,000 billion. kr they have contributed in values to the Norwegian Community. It's really something to be proud of as a worker. It has happened through different types of schemes, through dividends, through different kinds of taxes, through taxes, through DEATH, where the state owns part of the oil and gas business, through ownership through Equinor, and that is, of course, this kind of framework we are now in the process of establishing even when it is in the hands of the farming industry. If there's one thing that I'm overestimated that we as a society should do in the future, it's that we use our community's resources to generate income for the whole community, so that the value creation that happens is for the many and not just for a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e755	I am pleased that the last representative mentioned, inter alia: DEATH, which was otherwise created by the Willoch government in its time. It may, in the light of the debate, be timely, to trace completely, to say that the Right also voted for the establishment of Statoil in its time, although there was discussion around it. I thought I would make a little visit to the difference between this representative proposal and some other proposals that have been made in the past. There is no doubt that the proposal differs quite significantly from some other uncertainty proposals. Take, for example: a small enterprise that I know well, which has three concessions. The difference between the imposition of a levy or regulation on them and the imposition of a time limit on the farm permit itself, and the fact that that time limit should be effective, is that if their permit falls away, all the values of the company will disappear at the moment. That means that all development, all competence, all tribal fish, all ownership, all market work – all of it – is worthless at the moment they have lost the concession and some others may have got it. It is one of the major challenges, in principle, with this proposal that we do not overlook the consequences of how it will turn out, especially for the small ones. There's talk here of the small ones you think about, but it's just the small ones, who don't have a large holding in Chile or Canada, who will be hit most by this. We have been very clear and clearly informed here today that the goal is also to have a time limit for the existing breeding permits. Then I just want to say: Think of the situation that 1000 – 1000 – permits come out on the market at the same time. Then it doesn't matter whether the payment is called rent or whether the payment is called a farm fund, a single payment or a fee. It's going to be the value at the time that decides what the payment is, either in terms of rent or in terms of something else. Because no one here has said that these permits should be distributed free of charge. On the contrary, it has been explicitly entered that a rental scheme should be considered for the smallest breeders. What the others are going to pay – well, at least in view of the debate as it has been here today, there is no indication that they are going to pay less for the rights they might have. It is completely wrong to say that this will lead to lower prices, overall, for the individual. This will lead to exactly the same bidding round on the rental price and on other ways of paying it, in addition to greater uncertainty about funding – overall higher costs too small and large. That's normal. And it's also good to remember, there's actually concession law in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e766	I read the Bible, and what the hell does to me doesn't matter to me, because he doesn't want me to have anything to do with it. On the other hand, the question is whether the representative Sandtrøen has read in the Granavolden platform. Had he done so, he could have taken it quite easy with regard to the property conditions relating to agricultural properties in the Østerdalen, for it is stated that no changes are to be made to the concession law for agricultural properties during the current period. When we were negotiating at Granavollen, we experienced in the Christian People's Party a rudeness and a condolences from the other government parties just for the part of the industrial policy that is so important to the Christian People's Party, which concerns the primary industries. The fact that we got that response from those we negotiated with greatly contributed to our country as we did. Then I also have to say that I'm a little surprised when I notice the temperature here, how representatives from the left really give up and make this a question of raw liberalism versus accountability in terms of the community's resources. After all, it's not more than five and a half years since the same parties put in power, and there were also very large values in the farming industry at the time. So I personally know – and I've also been visited – businesses in this industry that represent a small but important segment: the small family-run businesses. There are people who have started from scratch, who have taken considerable financial risks, who have been on the brink of bankruptcy, but who have laboriously built up their business. And what has been presented by the Workers' Party will – as the representative Nilsen was at the moment – help to tear away very much of the financial base under these smaller businesses. So we in the Christian People's Party feel calm about what we've landed on in this case. We don't want to contribute to uncertainty for companies that are so important to District Norway and to Coast Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e774	I took for sure the matter with me we are really debating, up to the pulpit, because during this day I have become a little uncertain as to whether that is the matter we are debating. A little visit to the Sandtrøen representative: Yes, I am absolutely sure that there is good genetic material also with him, as it does with most people. And I'm absolutely sure his great-grandfather had enjoyed the Left today as well. So to the representative Knag Fylkesnes: I didn't mention – and I was quite aware that I didn't mention – exactly that with a time limit as such or not, whether it was 15 or 20 years. What I'm afraid of is – and I'm going to address it quite clearly: the representative Nilsen talked about the 1,000 concessions that could be freely circulated. What is the probability that they will end up in a local ownership, where much of it is today? It is likely, if simultaneously released, that the market economy will act as a market economy, that this will be further structured, that there will be fewer local owners and more foreign owners. That's exactly what this is really about, and it just ignores the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e784	If I'm going to tip this off, this is about the opposition today joining up on a proposal to actually make local ownership less along the coast, and I think that's a very dramatic and a very special turn in the case. And talking about the ownership of the general public on land and to water doesn't help. I think it is dramatic that this is the consequence of the proposal – fewer local owners and more foreign capital coming in, who have the opportunity to buy the 1000 concessions that the opposition is willing to offer to other operators in the field of aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e788	It's interesting to hear the representative from the Left, who has obviously become a member of a very blue government. There are obviously very big differences in this hall, and that might be nice. The dividing lines come out clearly – we believe that the community should have a hand on the steering wheel, this government does not. The issue is: how to bring down the entrance ticket, how to create a nourishment for the many rather than the small ones. Of course, we need those who will create; it's incredibly important that we have those who want to invest and to create values in this society. We cheer them up, and they need predictability. Of course, they should have predictability, and that is nothing but what is in this case. But we cannot escape the fact that the reason why you want to invest is, of course, that it should be profitable, that you have to make money, and there is nothing wrong with it. But we cannot underestimate it and do as the representative of Hofstad Helleland said, that if this is to be introduced, the industry must be shut down. Where in the world did you get that when you made a statement like this? I must also say I find it shocking to hear the representative Ebbesen's understanding of what is the community's resources, the community's areas, and how to deal with them. Our society is based on small differences, it is based on community making, but also on expectations and demands for remuneration, demands that just ensure that you have light in the houses, as it has been mentioned here before. So it's said a lot, especially now on the tap, that it's going to happen if you introduce this. It's a little special to sit here and deal with a matter where you want to get something figured out – of course with a goal – and then you come up with all the conclusions instead of being able to figure it out. I think that's a very strange way of working politically. If you want to see the consequences of this matter, yes, you should be there to support the matter. It would have been a much more constructive approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e801	Norway has built much of its value-making and development on a wise management of rich natural resources — at all times. So we've done a lot of right and have a rich inheritance to manage. In the future, there are other considerations than yield and growth that need to be taken into account. The centre party has been clear that the Community's resources are to be belonging to the community and that they are to be developed accordingly. It is going to be difficult to produce food in large parts of the world, and Norway is in a special position to contribute. With sustainable extraction and management of Norwegian natural resources, we can develop products, technologies and markets that help maintain a functioning ecosystem, including in the sea. An important part of the solution to climate and environmental problems that often result from human activity, including for aquaculture, is the development of new technologies that become competitive, so that they are applied on a broad front. Policies should not be designed to shift Norwegian value creation and activity out of the country to places where emissions are often higher and – not least – control is significantly weaker. In connection with the Volstad judgment, the majority in Højesterett considered that a time limit on fishing quotas does not break with the Grundgesetz § 97. They believed that there was no breach of the Convention in the matter either. There are strong arguments that this will also apply to a future clear time-limit for already granted concessions in aquaculture. For new concessions, there is – undisputedly – an opportunity to limit the time horizon, just to get the development we want. One question is how long are we going to have today's variation of the concession system? The centre party believes that we need to have a principle of renting the right to farm. It would be forward-looking. With regard to the value of a salmon concession in the aquaculture industry today, we saw at the last round of prices of an average of 151 million. kr per piece. It's really little, after all, if we were to assume that this was an eternal right. The price of entry into the industry today or of increasing capacity, especially for small ones, has become disproportionately high. It has become so high that it challenges innovation, diversity and not least future value creation in the aquaculture industry, because the high cost is incurred at once. There is reason to believe that clarifying the duration of an authorisation will affect the price and give the country greater opportunities to provide guidance for a desired development, a more climate-friendly and sustainable future. The rights are probably not unlimited in time – probably in any case – and it should be in the interests of industry, the community and this room to have more orderly clarification, so that the framework conditions become clearer, and that the focus can be on achieving more sustainable development. Setting up an investigation that provides predictability and ensures that the right to operate aquaculture in our common public should be in the interest of all parties. It's in the interests of the Norwegian people, at least, but it doesn't seem like it's in the government's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e820	At first glance you can look at this proposal and think that it bears the mark of urgent work, especially because the comparison that has been made with other countries, where inspiration has been obtained, actually turns out not to be correct. When you hear representatives from the opposition use as much time to discuss moors as to discuss predictability for the breeding industry, you realize that the arguments in this case may not be as good. At first, we in the Right believed that promoting such a proposal was a labor accident from the Workers' Party, but after hearing the Labour Party leader at the national meeting, pointing to the six winning industries that Norway is going to invest in in the future, and not mention sea food, then this is probably a more systematic approach to this industry than we might have thought at first. In fact, when the leader of the Workers' Party points to the winning industries in Norway, he also points to the tap industries. And we understand, of course, the consequences of this proposal: it is above all unforeseeable, which leads many to consider whether to continue to invest in jobs. The representative, Knag County, claims that we in the Right are not consistent, especially because – looking up against the base rate tax – you can't stand for a principle line if you're against the proposal we're dealing with here. I can promise the representative Knag Fylkesnes that I am 100 pst. against rent taxes, and I will do what I can to ensure that this government will not go in for rent taxes. I am therefore very pleased that the National Court's meeting said a crystal clear no to this tax. Then I want to end by saying that perhaps our most important task as business politicians is to facilitate job creators around the country, as in the farming industry, to have opportunities to create jobs that people can go to, create incomes for our welfare fund. That's what we're here to contribute to. This proposal is then as flawed as it can be achieved, because this will prevent development, jobs and well-being production along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e831	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e836	It's a classic measurement-fan-on-wall discussion that's run from the right-hand side of this question. That's what they might find the role in this. It's the regime around the breeding industry today we're discussing. Should there be an increase in community taxation when one sees such high incomes coming from the industry and so little into the community? Should there be better control of the permissions given, etc.? There are fish in the county. It was my uncle who started it in the 1980s, and it's still going to drive – three food fish concessions. Our project in SV is not about pulling away the carpet under the legs of the actors, but about creating framework conditions that allow one to get something back to the community and take care of the environment. So I'll ask the position to stop painting the dome on the wall and instead go into this in a principal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e845	In this debate, the representatives of the right-hand side have said that the proposal will mean both economic ruin for those who are engaged in farming and economic ruin for the society of Norway, as a result of extensive claims if adopted. This is not at all related – it's obviously about desperately looking for counter-arguments, and then falling into your own feet. The author of the case brings up a number of areas in which the community owns the community's resources. That's absolutely right. The right-hand side has lost the blows they've suffered, because the people don't want right-wing policies on these things. We own it together because the right-hand side is down. The Bondevik government tried to reverse the case of a fall-back. It even got Kåre Willoch to go out and attack Right Wing. They tried to get eternal fishing quotas. Fortunately, there was nothing of that. And in the last growing-up period, there was a rebellion against the right-wing government, which would sell Norway, for example. through the privatisation of State Forest. It was stopped because people didn't want this policy. People want us to own and manage the community's resources together. The right side has been on the wrong side up through the story, and they are on the wrong side today. If we are lucky and live in 30 years' time, I hope we see an industry where it is possible for young people to enter, where local ownership is possible rather than being owned by large international capital, and where processing and working along the coast is possible rather than concentration of slaughterhouses and moving live fish out of Norway, and that we still have a high level of uprooting among the population. The right-hand side believes – as in all other cases – that such things come about by themselves. But we have always believed in politics, that the community should own the natural resources together, and that we should create jobs and values for the community together. And the right-hand arguments in this debate are a reprisal from the beginning of the 1900s, it's a reprisal from the debates we had under the Bondevik government – it's just going back into the referendums and see. These are the exact same arguments they used 100 years ago that they use today. I am so happy about it, because I am looking forward to 30 years from now – if I am lucky, then – to reading the minutes, when, hopefully, we have adopted this policy a long time ago, and can go to the minutes and see that yes, in this case too, the right forces were on the wrong side. We're going to work on ensuring that the community's resources are also owned by the community in the future, and that we ensure value creation and great activity along our entire coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e860	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e865	The big thing in this case is not the reference in the attitude of the different countries that have different arrangements. In fact, it is not based on any urgent work, what is contained in the proposal – on the contrary, it is based on an investigation by the Swedish Research Department of Storting. And if there's anything wrong there, it's obviously silly that it's in the setting. But it's from Storting's investigation section. The big thing in this case is that the majority, the right parties, are now repeating history, because they are not concerned with safeguarding the interests of the community as regards the rights of coastal and marine areas. That's what's big in this case. And when the right parties again use sloppy arguments about how miserable everything is to introduce such a -- we'll say -- overview related to a time limit, so they do it without having solved the question and the consequences. Get it, whoever can. Then I am glad that the rider feels well at home in the right parts, and that he was treated with roughness on the Granavollen. At least it didn't help ants or fur animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e874	I would like to take this opportunity at the very end of the debate to thank you for an interesting and exciting – we might say – debate. It's a little special to hear that we're bombastic, as in the post after the representative Grande. If there was something that was relatively clear, it was at least that post. As far as this matter is concerned, it is clear to me that the companies that have been built up in the country over many years, and where people have been holding the hat in their hands to secure their capital and their business for the family, will be at risk. That's what you're going to risk in case of a fall-back. One also wants the existing concessions to fall back, thus creating the uncertainty that is there, and to ensure that large capital forces will go in and take their share of it, just as the representative from the Left said in his post. This is not an industry where we have had problems with its development. It's evolved well. This is not an industry with poor sustainability results. It's one of the best industries, with the best sustainability results. At the end of the day, it is also that it is not a case of a return, it is suggested that the state temporarily withdraw the concessions, and then sell them out again. It's something else. It's simply to place the state financially, give an opportunity to charge for the same thing several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e883	This president is about to leave the podium, but he just wants to say that this case was scheduled to be one hour, and now it has been two. There is only one advice for the special nutrition committee – considering the next two issues – that one to be on the safe side is trying to stay away from the Bible, and perhaps also stay away from the North East Valley.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e888	I'll stick to the seawater. I am very pleased that there is a proper debate here. I think the presidency should be happy that it's a discussion. It's been too little discussion in recent years, so we can finally use the hall for what it's meant to be, I'm very happy. In the case of the rearing of fish in the sea, there is a profitable industry and there are three main reasons for doing so. One is that the fish is a cold - blooded animal, unlike the animals that live on land, which are warm - blooded. A cold-blooded animal is much more energy-efficient, and thus gets a completely different and positive yield from a fish versus a sheep or a pig. Point two is that in the breeding of fish has a dung beetle in the sea, to put it straight out, and it's usually cheaper than having large facilities for dung beetles on land. The third is that the food used is essentially human food, and it is purchased at the price of the world market. Then this is going to be a good store when you combine it with good people. So it's an industry that's important and that needs the support of society, but also an industry where practitioners need to meet society's demands. No one owns the sea, the sea water is the community; it hasn't been clearly said here. I'm from the interior, but that's what I understand. No one owns the seawater, and that's the resource that's at the base of the whole industry. That water shall be of food quality. It has been pointed out in a precise way by the Institute of Marine Research. It's going to have food quality, because in the sea water it's producing food, the farthest where it is. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to regulate use, to ensure that food quality is obtained at sea, and to ensure that one has activity along the coast. One has to ensure that the profits overwhelm the coast, that it provides opportunities for young people, and that young people can make good money in an industry developed by Professor Harald Schjervold at the Agricultural College in his time with the aim of overwhelming the coast. The fact that an assessment of a time limit on a right of return is now being discussed is only entirely seaworthy for me. It makes sense when someone knows what resources are used. What must then be the premise for further investigation is that one must ensure that social objectives are met. If social goals are not met, well, then it's natural to go in for a relapse. Finally, there was a question of international capital. Unfortunately, it is such – to the representative Grande – that once one has entered into the EEA Agreement, the possibility of discriminating between Norwegian and foreign interests is limited. I would like to welcome him to the position of the Central Party in the EEA Agreement. Then we can also regulate it and sort out the sewing stuff at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e910	The central party's interest in aquaculture policy is to ensure the lack of nutrition, to ensure that a greater part of the value creation is restored along the coast, and to ensure national control of resources. I feel that some of this debate is based on deliberate misinterpretations, when the case-speaker is forced to go to the proposal, and do not stick to the setting when he interprets it. Things that we treat in Stortinget are based on the setting. There is one party behind the proposal for Document 8. There are three parties that are behind the suggestions that are in the setting, and I have to ask that we stick to the setting. She's very clear on what one might think about the time limit for current concessions. You want to figure it out, and then you can evaluate it. A lot of the debate is probably also based on a pretty significant amount of bad government conscience because of what they do when it comes to rent taxes, and the insecurity they created there. The Minister of Fisheries says that this was a burden imposed by the Stortingen, but the reality is that the Minister of Finance went much further in his mandate than the points the Stortingen had outlined. Nor was it the case that the Senterpartiet was behind that setting, because we do not want a basic interest tax on the farming industry. So it's strange to hear the talk of being persuasive. If we say that new concessions should last 30 years, no one can say that they are non-proprietary. It's as presumptuous as it can be. Presumably, it doesn't mean that everything should be the way it was. It's also important. A large number of people in this room, including the Center Party, did something that one could call unseemly when one introduced the so-called traffic light system. It was a pretty big intervention in the framework of the industry when it was introduced, but the important thing was that one had done it, one had discussed it with the industry, and one had come up with a solution that intervened in the potential for growth, but also laid the framework for growth. There's something new, but that doesn't mean it's a bad business policy to do it. I mean – and I want to repeat what I'm starting to say – that when we discuss aquaculture, it's important to distinguish between the parties that initially want the industry well, and the parties that don't want it, and then we have to discuss it as a background.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e923	I took the floor one more time because there is a lot of speculation from the case rapporteur: we're going to take the concessions back to the state just to be able to sell them out again. We're going to let all the concessions that have a relapse, back into the market at once, so that only the big foreign capitalists can get hold of them. Once the concessions have gone from 0 in price – they were free until 2002 – to 150 million. kr, it means something for the development of the industry. That is why we have asked for an investigation where, of course, a lot of concessions must not be dropped back into the market at once, and where the time limit has to be carefully assessed. Because we don't want to risk the very important businesses for Norway. It seems that there is very low trust in well-designed policies in the opposition. Obviously, we have opportunities to make good policies here. We are many who know that good societies are created by skilled companies, but also through well-designed policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e932	I'm sorry I'm taking the floor again, but after the last speaker I felt a little need for a comment, because I've been wondering a little bit about this: what was now said is that someone should have a longer term than others on their concessions. If not all should have the same maturity, i.e. that all the thousands who are there today have the same term – that they should not be released at the same time – then someone has to have a different term than the others. Then I'm very excited about who's going to be more alike than the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e937	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 will be treated together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e966	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e976	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and all its contributions to these two issues. The Committee has also had a thorough consultation with a wide range of organisations and stakeholders, and I would like to thank the participants in the hearing for their input and the Ministry for their complementary responses. Of course, it is always a challenge when the proposer is not part of the committee that sets up, but I hope it still feels as if matters have been dealt with properly and thoroughly. The main impression of the consultation and the documentation provided is that the aquaculture industry in Norway is an industry that takes the environmental challenges seriously, which is strictly regulated and which operates the purest form of livestock production today and the lowest climate impact – compared to both agriculture and other protein production of animals and also compared to the production of the same type of fish in other countries. A near-joint committee emphasises a stable framework for industry – I choose to say a single committee, even if it is not in the same wording – to ensure a long-term activity with less and less footprints. The industry has recently been subject to two significant regulatory reinforcements: the traffic light system and stricter rules for the lice treatment and dumping of lice or lice water used. These regulations have not yet had the time to function fully, and although an overall committee, with a slightly different wording, believes that industry needs to be prepared for even more stringent regulations to ensure that future growth is also taking place within a sustainable framework, there is no doubt that industry is still being regulated today. The majority of the Committee has chosen not to endorse the proposals. It is partly due to the fact that some of the proposals seem to be missing the actual basis and context of the activity to be regulated, and partly to the fact that several of the proposals are really very close — or directly — to implementation or implementation. Responding to the proposals would mean a risk of poorer progress. It is difficult to know, of course, but when you look at some of the proposals, it may seem that the proposer has not been fully aware of the legislation currently in force, or the ongoing actions that are underway. This industry has the strictest framework for some food production. In comparison, we can figure out that the climate pressure here is lower per calorie produced than in any other animal husbandry. The same applies to antibiotic use, which is 1/35 of land production in Norway — which is also among the lowest in the world. Each individual location has been assessed on the basis of the recipient's tolerability and is regularly checked for environmental status. The results of these state reports are good. The traffic light system is not perfect, but it's the system we have, and it's the only system that really exists, that limits livestock farming based on indirect quantifiable influence on wild fauna. The latest data from here show that there is only one area — and then parts of this area — that actually qualifies to be in the red zone, but it is treated as one. The size has previously ordered a broader set of environmental impact indicators, and this is under way as far as we are informed, and that is important. We expect it to follow up and give a quick result. This is challenging because it is sometimes difficult to identify environmental factors that are significantly affected and where the number of farmed salmon is relevant to the state of the environment. It's a challenging job. In parts of this proposal, there is a tendency to blame aquaculture when it is difficult to find the reason – and I would warn against that. These include: an indirect link between the occurrence of zooplankton and aquaculture, for which it is difficult to find coverage in literature. The area where there are too many nutritional challenges is in Skagerrak. There is a technical consensus that there are other reasons for it than aquaculture, especially since there is no aquaculture in the vicinity of those areas. The shrimp population in Skagerrak has major problems, but this is not due to aquaculture. Although the 2018 vintage is good, there are now some areas that have been closed due to too many small shrimps. The shrimp population in Skagerrak affects the shrimp population along the coast from Skagerrak to Lofoten because eggs and larvae flow with the sea streams, affecting the recruitment of coastal populations up along Norway. In Norway’s most intensively cultivated fjord system, Hardangerfjorden, an assessment of nutrient inputs has been made, and the result is little compared to what enters the fjord system through ocean currents and naturally. Let me spend a few seconds on the need to take care of the genetic diversity that our wild breeds represent. We agree with that is an important work, and there is a work going on, which we will focus on following up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e996	Finally, I would like to point out that it is striking that this industry is given much greater responsibility for its environment than other food production, yes, than other production at all. I would like to highlight in particular the proposal that SV has made, which in practice means a total ban on discharges of almost all species. With these criteria, we could close most of the production activities in Norway, including fisheries and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e999	I can actually continue a bit of the debate from the previous case, because one actually underlines also in this case that this is an important future industry for Norway. Large values are created, but there is one premise, and there is a balance between growth and the production power that is there, and the relationship with the environment and footprint associated with it. I want to commend the proposer for addressing these issues, because it is quite important that we discuss them regularly, and that we focus on the environmental impact and footprint of an industry that we want to develop further. I think it's actually better, out of love for industry, out of love for farming and the opportunities that lie in aquaculture, to make relatively strict demands in view of the future. I believe that the history of other industries also shows that, where we have made strict demands, we have had a positive development, and we have had a more sustainable development. I also think that is important in terms of this industry. One has done a lot. A lot is very good, but there are still some challenges. These challenges should be jointly addressed by the authorities and industry, so that they can also provide a basis for a more growth-oriented future. There is no doubt that in some areas there are relatively large remaining challenges, for example: the report and figures of the Directorate of Fisheries, as pointed out in the proposal, on the loss or mortality in the mermaids of 53 million salmon in both 2016 and 2017. Regardless of how one rains disappear in percentages, we believe, based on the report, that mortality is still high in the farming industry, that high losses are not compatible with good fish health, and that it is possible to reduce the loss. Then we have to do what we can. In this way, it is important to discuss, set frameworks and conditions that enable us to ensure the basis for the future even better than what we have done today. I think basically that many of the proposals have it in themselves that it makes sense to go in the direction of it. One is the proposal on lice and regulation of emissions related to lice agents, chemicals and medicinal products, to make it more stringently regulated. This is a proposal from the Labour Party. In the second Document 8, which we are now considering, we are involved in some proposals. To mention them cards: In the case of different methods of tracing escaped farmed salmon, there has been a debate in this room over many, many years, and one has not yet found a solution. It should be possible to find a solution, and that a developer of methods that are good and satisfactory – and perhaps slightly different – in relation to it. With regard to the development and improvement of the traffic light system with several environmental indicators, this was the basis at the time when one first started discussing the traffic light system. I think it's natural that one goes further on that too now. In proposal No 3 is one in this respect with the criteria for new allocation rounds with development concessions, that it is presented to the Storting. Not least, it is important to have a background in the enormous values contained in an ordinary concession. When a development concession is taken and converted into an ordinary concession, significant values have been created in connection with it. So making strict demands also on technology developments and improvements in relation to development concessions will be very important. The fourth proposal is based on stricter rules for the use of, inter alia: copper impregnation, which is also an important theme in this context. We're in on it, too. Finally, this has been a discussion: to go through the need for re-banking of endangered wild fish stocks and sea trout populations in Norway to ensure that no salmon or sea trout populations are lost. It's also a discussion that has been there latently, and we believe that we're not in a satisfactory position, and that it's important that we get into a satisfactory position to take care of exactly those conditions. I have now examined the proposals for which the Workers' Party is involved in this matter. We're doing it out of love for the industry because we think this is part of establishing the basis for both growth and future opportunities and also focusing on a footprint that's there, but that we want to develop further, in the sense that it's being reduced. I address the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1027	The representative of Terje Aasland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1032	When it comes to the proposals, I refer to the Aasland representative's review of them. The center part also shares the love that he mentioned. I want to comment on three aspects. Firstly, strict environmental requirements are imposed on the farming industry. Many things go in the right direction. There will be a need to tighten up the requirements further forward. What is important for the Centre Party is that the requirements that are imposed should be knowledge-based, and this should be done in dialogue with the Industry. Let it be the starting point. Then I will comment on two specific points. The first is proposal No. 3, which applies to new allocation rounds of so-called development concessions. There is now an allocation round, or a review round is perhaps better to say. It is my clear impression that there is a lot of steel and concrete far to sea. There is no doubt that industry needs to develop this kind of technology, but our competitive advantage is primarily linked to near-country production. It is important for new rounds of allocation that this step-by-step development means that – what I should say – the ordinary breeding business must also have the possibility to enter here. I have understood that if you have two technologies that are just as good and one is expensive and the other is cheap, award criteria for development concessions will prioritise that expensive technology. It must be a goal to do things smart and cheap, and that new breeding technologies are not only related to the physical things, but also to the use of new technologies into operation. So a comment on the so-called traffic light system. Firstly, it's a bad name that's hard to understand if you're not a Minister of Fisheries or your business committee. Now that's for sure, but to the expectations of that system: one of the objections that the Center Party had when we were on this was that we were against collective punishment, that is. that if you run well with little lice in an area that has a lot of lice, you may be at risk of being cut in production as part of the production area. As a result, I noticed in the previous case that the representative Steinar Reiten from the Christian People's Party said something such as that companies with special high luxuries can reduce production. We could then be fine if in this debate the Minister of Fisheries, too, decided that it is the company to look at, or whether it is the production area. Is it such that the objections that the Central Party had to collective punishment are ours? That would be a useful clarification. The centre party has gone into the proposals of the Greens' Greens' Greens' Greens' Party with an open mind. We still have up by five suggestions that we're behind. They're basing themselves on one to figure out things before a set of them works, and it's in line with the goal of a knowledge-based approach when a set of new requirements for nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1045	The SV's starting point for the future of the farming industry is that we want to take the industry in the direction of becoming an unpolluted industry, i.e. there are no negative emissions from the industry in the marine environment. When I'm around and discussing with the industry what kind of future they see, they're pretty much some of the things that must be the goal. The question is, how fast are we going to get there? Is it fast enough in that direction? I think it's going incredibly slowly. It's not the industry's fault, it's the Storting and the government's fault. We're the rules of this industry, and they adapt to the framework conditions that are set at any given time. Without contamination, without negative contamination – with it means no lice being spread around, no escape, different types of emissions, chemicals, faeces, etc., mortality, but also conditions such as imports of feed, which openbert could have a significant impact on Norway, if the feed supply we have today, with imports from e.g. The soya stuff, it stops because you want to manage those resources from Brazil in another way. So being self-sufficient in the long term in feed is also a goal for SV. Our love for the industry is great, but then something has to happen first with the framework conditions, so that it can really be the industry that we think Norway needs. We believe that we are just at the threshold of a great future for the aquaculture industry, that we are now only seeing a beginning in the industry this could be in the future. For the time being, there are only a few species on which farming is being carried out, and so far it is a poor environmental requirement that the damage it has to the marine environment around us, whether it be from local fishermen or locals, is so extensive that there is a major dispute about farming in Norway today. To become a viable industry in the long term, the industry must be free of contamination. Then all of a sudden we have a completely different kind of nourishment in front of us. Then we have an industry that everyone, absolutely everyone, in Norway will be proud of. Then there are two proposals that we are dealing with in this context. The pre-war principle should be one of the fundamental principles of Norwegian management by nature, but we have seen that when it concerns the farming industry, it is not followed up accordingly. For example, the IRIS research shows that hydrogen peroxide causes much greater damage than one previously believed. It gives support to those who think this is causing damage especially to shellfish. In a precautionary perspective, once you saw that this had damage, you should not wait and get additional documentation to withdraw it. The precautionary principle means that a person should lie in front of him and not in the back. One should not be ‘fast’ – that it is the new principle that will only apply to this industry. Environmental indicators: We have a traffic light system, which is controlled by the environmental indicator, but there are no ‘ar’ there. There's only one indicator, and that's the whole thing since that system was created. So an environmental indicator that only measures the amount of lice is the only thing we control the work of the bearer for this industry – that's what controls traffic lights and production limits. There is a major breach of the Storting's regulations when these rules were established. Then the directive was that we should have a set of indicators covering all the most important aspects of aquaculture. But we don't have that today, we just have it for lice. So one can't claim that we have a system that lasts to bear power, because we don't have a system of indicators that lasts to bear power. That's what I think everyone should see. Then there's a lot of suggestions that'll be taken up here. I would like to inform you that in SV we are working on a series of proposals that will come – something that is coming in our future, something that we are going to deal with in the autumn. First of all, there are proposals on feed and how we can reverse the dependence we currently have on feed from abroad, withdraw industry to Norway and build Norwegian business with the aim of becoming self-sufficient in feed raw materials in Norway. Finally, I refer to the SV proposals as they stand in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1065	Then the representative Torgeir Knag County has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1070	The left has great sympathy for many of the proposals promoted to reduce emissions significantly. At the same time, there must be continuous work in this area. This is something that the Left always has its eyes on and will follow closely: reducing the environmental impact of the farming industry. I agree with what is said, that any system needs to be evaluated and evaluated, as well as the traffic light system, but as I said in a previous post today, it should basically have some effect before an assessor assesses a further change. I agree with what Mr Fylkesnes said in the Chair. I think going even further with feed development will be of great importance, both for industry and for how the industry is perceived. I think that'll be important in the future. I also believe that much of the intention in the proposals available is shared by many. We, the government, are in a continuous process of looking at it. Knag County itself mentioned hydrogen peroxide, which was a pretty big debate around and after Christmas, which shows that it has some unintended effects that are definitely worth taking with it. If we don't have a continuous process in assessing this, I think we're going to be wrong. It should be mentioned in this debate what I have seen part of when I have traveled so much around: I think it would be appropriate for the person controlling this within the various regions, that is, the Food Authority, to deal with this legislation equally. Not everyone can have their own practice, it must be equal to practice, even between the regions. As others have been in, this is for my part about the original, the wild axis. If we're going to have a farming industry that's going to flourish in the future, it's absolutely necessary to take care of the original. That is why we must take particular account of the nature of the wild game, which we must follow closely at all times. Because without taking care of the original, I think we'll have a worse position for the farming industry in the future. That's why the wild axis is a particularly important moment when we talk about breeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1084	High salmon prices combined with high volumes have led to a clone-dysseying in the aquaculture industry in recent years. At the same time, there is no problem with aquaculture in Norwegian fjords. Both the problems of lice, diseases, escape and nutritional salts are very real. Therefore, paradoxically, there is a broad cross-political consensus that the aquaculture industry, which delivers very good economic results, will not be able to grow further in terms of total marine biomass until technological and operational solutions are developed to ensure sustainable development. It is important to have a continuous, thorough and precautionary approach to the climate and environmental impacts of the aquaculture industry. Both the authorities, local communities and operators in the aquaculture industry have a common interest in sound management of the industry and minimisation of the environmental impact. And there's a lot of exciting happening in terms of business-driven research and development right now, not least because of the incentive that lies in the concept of development permits. Nor is it the case that the state and government adopt a passive and pending attitude to environmental challenges in the aquaculture industry. It is important to stress that aquaculture pollution legislation is under review. The Directorate for the Environment and the Directorate for Fisheries has been commissioned by the Ministry for Climate and Environment and the Ministry for Food and Fisheries to propose a revision of the legislation in this area and this work is now well under way. All uses of lice, chemicals and other medicinal products from farming facilities are currently strictly regulated. There is no unregulated dumping of chemicals and medicinal products. Any emissions from breeding plants have also been taken into account in the assessment of the permit under the pollution law. Ban areas were introduced for the release of lice from wellboats in 2017 and further restrictions for the farms themselves were introduced from 2019 onwards. So there is ongoing work both in industry and in administration to reduce the environmental impact of the aquaculture industry. Also from Stortinget it is clarified that the work of strengthening the sustainability of the industry is a continuous process. Among other things, the Stortinget asked, in connection with the treatment of Report. St. 16 for 2014-2015 and the introduction of the traffic light system, to assess the long-term inclusion of indicators other than the application of lacecus in order to regulate production capacity. As environmental indicators concerned, it was mentioned inter alia: disease, disappearance and discharge of nutritional salts. Work is in progress and government parties state in their comments that environmental requirements for businesses could be exacerbated if the industry did not succeed sufficiently in the ongoing processes. Nevertheless, it is important that even now the industry has the time to develop sustainable solutions for the future. That's also the whole purpose of the concept of development permits. In some areas, the development of new and revolutionary solutions is now so rapid that at least one of the proposals promoted in this matter is in fact in the process of being obsolete. Physical labelling of farmed fish could be unnecessary in the near future. Strong operators in the aquaculture industry are working intensively to develop new technologies in which optical sensors can identify fish in a breeding plant down to individual level and store the data in order to identify any escaped fish and trace the fish back to the plant from which it escaped. As regards the uncertainty about the adverse effect of anti-pitin lice, among others. on shrimps, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for further knowledge of population development and reasons for population variation. We therefore welcome the work that is now being done at the Institute of Marine Research. There is currently a high degree of uncertainty related to the background for reduction and variability of coastal resources and the possible contribution to population building. It is important that the basis for decision-making is based on broad research and not only on the results of individual research projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1109	The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposer that it is both necessary and important to have a continuous, thorough and precautionary approach to the climate and environmental impacts of human activity, but the proposals promoted here are largely in line with the work being carried out. The traffic lighting system, which is the main management tool currently used by the state to meet environmental challenges in industry, is still at an early stage and will not be fully implemented until next year. The Christian People's Party therefore considers that it is not in line with the need for predictable framework conditions to make fundamental changes to the aquaculture regime as soon as a new regime is in place and before it is fully implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1112	Right-wing representative Tom-Christer Nilsen offered a rather interesting dance this winter when he asked something pointedly about what Norway would live on if we can't live by destroying nature. I would like to answer that question. live by the sea. Norway has one of the longest coastlines in the world, and we have almost six times more sea area than land area. We're going to harvest the sea, and we're going to produce food in the sea, but we're going to do it without destroying the possibility that future generations can do the exact same thing. The Greens want Norway to become a priority country for green food production. The breeding industry can and should have a future ahead of it if it manages to solve the problems of lice, escape, fish deaths and poor animal welfare, contamination and waste of nutrients. That is why the Greens have made several proposals: transition to closed rearing facilities the labelling of salmon in order to be able to trace escaped fish back to the mermaids; improvement of the traffic light system Prohibition of the dumping of licences Prohibition of toxic and environmentally harmful copper impregnation Unfortunately, these proposals are being voted down by the government parties today. If the farming industry is to grow, it will have to deal with environmental problems. It is our task, as elected representatives, on behalf of the community, to set the necessary requirements for this to happen, without jeopardizing the production of food for mankind and the environment in the future. It's very nice to say about Norwegian aquaculture. The best breeders are able to reduce mortality, lice and escape down to zero, they are researching and developing more environmentally friendly feed, they are testing closed technologies, and they grow algae and mucus under the mermaids to make better use of nutrients. I have visited several of them. But in the worst facilities, it's going up to 40 pst. of salmon before slaughter. A total of 53 million salmon died in Norwegian marshes last year. If we had seen such a high mortality rate among cows or pigs, we would have had a ramask. The problem today is obviously not that this industry lacks love from politicians or that we lack opportunities to impose environmental requirements. The problem is that we do not set the necessary environmental requirements that could have allowed Norway to have an excellent industry that had also been at the forefront in terms of the international environment. Each year the rearing industry emits 10000 tonnes of phosphorus through sludge and feed residues. The world is totally dependent on phosphorus to produce food, and there will be increasing scarcity of phosphorus in the world. So we're talking about huge and scarce resources on the way. No other industry in Norway is close to wasting as much phosphorus as the fish farming industry. We have to take it over. I can't believe and understand that any party doesn't want to demand that these nutrients come back into a circular system. Strict environmental requirements ensure clean air, clean water and clean food wherever in the country we are. It is the mix of an innovative business and environmental demand from the authorities that makes Norway a green and forward-looking industrial nation in many areas today. In the future, we will live on the sustainable exploitation of natural resources – not on the exploitation of nature that destroys people and the environment. That is why today we are promoting proposals to grant new concessions to only closed technology farms, we are proposing a transition to closed technology in existing plants, and we have a proposal for strict criteria in the traffic lighting system. We will also vote in favour of the proposals promoted by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre in the Committee's positions. I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of the proposals and, in particular, thank the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV for supporting many of the measures we in the Greens have proposed to make the farming industry more sustainable. But as long as the government believes that the best way to ensure sustainable farming is to make as little demands as possible on it, we as a nation choose a short-term and blind profit before sustainable harvesting of Norway's rich natural resources. I think that's a run of future generations. With that, I will take up the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1157	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1162	Norwegian aquaculture industry is going well and has seen an adventurous growth in both volume and export value in the last 20 years. The industry contributes to the creation of value added and employment along the coast and is engaged in important food production. The proposals now under discussion show that we all agree that the industry should be run in an environmentally sustainable way and that the management of the industry should be knowledge-based. In the case of points of the one draft representative. 1, I have the following comments: The emergence of salmonids, which are resistant to known medicines, has led to dramatic changes in the use of salmonids in a few years. Today, most of the treatments against salmonidosis are carried out using non-medicinal methods. However, the use we use of laxatives must be done in a proper manner. This is why we have laid down a number of rules to ensure this, including rules requiring breeders to show particular care to avoid unacceptable effects on the surrounding environment. I would also like to emphasise that veterinarians and fish health biologists are responsible for the professional soundness of all the pharmaceutical treatment of fish. The obligations — before providing for treatment — to assess the importance of fish health, welfare and the environment. These considerations should be specifically considered in each case. I believe that it is therefore not appropriate to further regulate the use and release of medicinal products in addition to what has already been done today. The current knowledge suggests that the release of medicinal products has a short-term adverse effect on species other than salmonids, as the lyophilisates are diluted and inactivated rapidly after release. But there's still a lack of knowledge. Thus, the bans we have recently introduced are based on a pre-war approach. Together with the Ministry of Climate and Environment, we have entrusted the Directorate for the Environment and the Directorate for Fisheries with the task of proposing a revision of the Aquaculture Pollution Code. As part of the response to the mission, the Directorate is in the process of assessing the need for new regulatory operational requirements for the release of medicinal products, such as: environmental monitoring requirements. With regard to the second proposal for a representative, the representative of Stoknes has proposed a genuine environmental reform in the aquaculture sector. I have noticed that the proposal concerns a number of administrative aspects of farming. I would therefore like to point out that a Joint Nutrition Committee in the Inner East. 361 S for 2014-2015 underlined the need for predictable framework conditions. This applies, inter alia, to: areas such as tax, levy, operational legislation, control procedures, reporting procedures, growth criteria and size and frequency of award of growth. It is not in line with the need for predictable framework conditions to make fundamental changes to the framework conditions for the aquaculture industry as soon as the new capacity adjustment system in the Norwegian aquaculture industry has come into place and a government-appointed sample is working to assess, inter alia, the situation. tax matters. But the most important thing, I think, is that the knowledge we have about how the industry affects the environment does not indicate the need for such major upheavals as the representative wants. In order to support a knowledge-based management, the Marine Research Institute produces an annual risk report for Norwegian fish farming. The report provides a broad assessment of environmental impacts from farming, based on the current knowledge base, and provides, together with advice from our trades unions, a good basis for putting in place the necessary measures to help Norwegian aquaculture industry operate in an environmentally sound manner. Finally, I just want to make it clear that every single day I focus on the environmental impact and on how we can improve this, because it's in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1188	I am pleased that the Council of State is working on the environmental and footprint of the industry every day. Most of the proposals currently under consideration relate to areas where the situation is not initially satisfactory. Can the Council of State say a little more specifically what he is working on now, and what we can expect from the Storting will come from measures to improve the footprint of the aquaculture industry – so that we can facilitate further growth for the industry, and also in one more, we can say, united with the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1193	The first thing I'm doing is to promote the legal possibilities just to be able to get started with a reduction in those areas where the environmental impact is unacceptable. The traffic light system has not implemented the red light. I have said that I will be launched for the autumn, because we have to get control of the situation. In addition, we need to evaluate the system in terms of development concessions, as well as what it has to do with the growth regime, precisely because we need to look at how we've done it, and what we've focused on. It also refers to the indicators that the representative of Aasland himself was involved in his statement. The mortality we see in the breeding industry today is unacceptable. There is a need to learn from each other, because there are large differences between installations, from region to region. We have to learn from it. We also have to look at the methods we use for debugging, and whether the methods we use are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1202	I appreciate the answer from the Council of State. I think it is good that he is also clear in Stortinget that stricter requirements must be imposed on the industry. Not least, mortality is a major challenge and a problem that needs to be solved. However, I think it is important that there is also a clear indication of what action is being taken. One of the proposals currently available is the development concession – whether the Stortinge may be presented with the criteria and the framework for its allocation in the future, so that we can also discuss this with the footprint in greater depth. Is there something that the Council of State will meet, so that the Storting can also be involved in discussing and facilitating that one is given criteria in respect of development concessions, which also best meet the needs of the environment and footprint, health status, etc. – so one jointly provides a greater basis for growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1209	I think we'll first make sure that we're now fully processed the concession requests that are already there, within the regime that has been set up in the past. There are a few applications left that the directorate may hopefully have completed around Easter. Then there is a significant appeal in the ministry. We'll go through this and evaluate it before we decide on any new rounds and possibly the device on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1216	Then I was confirmed that the Council of State does not want to involve Stortinget, at least as it exists now, and then I will move on to the next theme, which is quite important, and that is the traffic light system. We believe that it is not completely complete, nor is it good enough, as it is today. Improvements are needed, and one needs to develop it further. Does the Council intend to follow up on that very theme?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1221	Yes, the Council of State is going to go through the practice of that system, also what is not yet implemented, namely the red light, and make sure that there is a thorough work done before we make everything clear for the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1226	I refer to the legislation on the emission of medicinal products in spawning grounds. It has been a discussion, even at a professional level, whether it should only be for spawning grounds, i.e. what the marine research has defined as spawning grounds, or for spawning areas that fishermen have considered as spawning areas. The Government of the State Council has concluded that there should be a code for spawning grounds, but that it should not apply to spawning areas, which are much larger than spawning areas. According to marine research, for example: large parts of the Lofothavet not spawning fields, but everyone knows that this is a gigantic area for spawning. That means that the emission code is not applicable to it. Can the Council of State do a little good for what has been the professional assessment of the Directorate of Fisheries to include spawning areas in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1231	Now, first of all, I'm going to deal with the role and assessments of the Council of State in this, and it's the same legislation that applies to how these things are to be done, as in that case, among other things. The representative of the County Party was elected to the Government. What we're waiting for now is, for example, what we're waiting for. the full IRIS report related to the influence of lice agents, in particular hydrogen peroxide. What has been referred to earlier in the debate is an interim report on a controlled trial. The experiment is the research IRIS is doing. I believe that it will be completed in the course of the year, and will then take action based on whether there is a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1237	The council did not answer the question. The question is whether the legislation that we currently have for spawning grounds should also apply to spawning areas, which are much larger areas and not least cover more than cod. It is other than cod that spawns in Norwegian seas. Actually, I only want an answer from the Council of State, because he has received professional input from the Directorate of Fisheries on this question. Should this apply only to spawning grounds, or shall it also apply to spawning areas? What professional advice has the Directorate of Fisheries provided to the Council of State, and can he explain on what professional background the Council of State has not followed it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1242	Governments have no plans to change the legislation that is there today, as I believe that based on the knowledge that we have today, it is a fully-fledged and good enough legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1247	There are two types of responses that this government would like to give when there are debates about setting higher environmental requirements for business in Norway. One is that we want predictable framework conditions. Everyone agrees, and then we disagree as to what they should be. The second answer we often get is lack of knowledge, we don't even have enough knowledge in society to stop an insect death that threatens food production all over the world. The exact same answers are given in this debate. What I miss, and which will also be my question, is that when we get a government council from this government that can go up on this pulpit and not only aim to have an environmentally sound nutrition, but also that the farming industry, for example. can be a global environmental precursor, enabling Norway to continue to be a nation also in knowledge production, on how we actually use natural resources sustainably?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1252	I completely disagree with the production of the farming industry and the aquaculture industry by the representative of Bastholm. It's doing incredibly well out there. You create values. New solutions are also presented on the environmental side. Work is being carried out, among others: treatment methodology within the scope of lice. There are different ways to do this when it comes to the recognition of fish, so that we can come back and address the issue of escape. We see in different ways within development concessions, how we can drive this forward. When we travel around the world, many people actually look at Norway and how to do it. We still have a way to go, and it actually has the farming industry around the world in terms of different types of fish that are farmed. We have to solve the situation related to the lice problem. We need to resolve the situation with regard to the impact on farmed salmon, so that we meet our international obligations towards the wild species. That is why we are also working on re-banking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1259	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1267	A brief revisit to the Green Party: I must say that the proposal made by the Green Party, especially by the representative Stoknes, who is no longer here, is a very good example of one of what was my point in the facebook post that was being rolled over here, because the only way to meet the recommended solution that Stoknes points to is land-based. The land-based installations represent a doubling of the carbon footprint of the industry and represent an energy demand that must be met, corresponding to seven-eight Alta power plants or 7-8 TWh. It describes that even if we were to do it to achieve goals elsewhere, it helps to create bigger challenges elsewhere. That's a little bit of a point here. We have to see this in its entirety. My intention in this post is to briefly go through the proposals of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party and also the Socialist Left Party proposals here. There's no strong disagreement about these proposals, so I just want to briefly outline why one doesn't go in for any of them. For proposal No 1, in the case of environmental reform, we believe that with regard to the traceability of escaped farmed salmon, there is an exciting project going on, and we will see the results of that project. I have good faith that it will support the intention of the proposer. As regards proposal No: 2, as mentioned by the Council of State. In the case of copper impregnation, it is also black in the response from the Council of State that it is not possible to implement it now. In the case of chitinic acid inhibitors, such a review has just been carried out and is being carried out, and the temporary legislation is mainly linked to hydrogen peroxide, but this is also the case. In the case of gene banks, there is also ongoing work that is very exciting and important and will produce direct results. With regard to the review of legislation and the release of lice and medicinal products, the Council of State has outlined that it has been done and is in the process of being done. That's why it's done. In this way, we don't see the need at this point in time to go in for these proposals here. That doesn't mean we don't share the goal associated with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1278	I thought there was an alarming response from the Minister for Fisheries. There has been a bleak trend since we got a new Minister of Fisheries: one just doesn't get proper answers. At least from the previous Minister for Fisheries they got a proper answer to questions, but with this Minister for Fisheries they get around. It's like handling a soap piece, you can't answer a question, and you can't go any further. Here is the starting point that the Marine Research Institute has equated spawning grounds with spawning areas in the professional assessment of how to deal with them when it comes to dumping luxuries in the sea. Thus, not only the spawning field surveys of the Marine Research Institute are to be the starting point for the use of this strict regulation, but also the experience of fishermen in the practice of gypsy in Norwegian waters. This is so simple that the Marine Research Institute has not surveyed the entire marine area. It's a long-awaited process, it's going on for a long time. But excluding spawning grounds, which one has experience with from hundreds of years of spawning in Norwegian waters and Norwegian seas, from this code, is quite shocking. So one doesn't care about the fishermen's experience of cod spawning, even though the Directorate of Fisheries has concluded that it is their professional judgement that fishermen's experience of cod spawning should count as much as HI's spawning field surveys. Gymnastics fields and spawning areas shall have equivalent protection against lice poison. Nevertheless, the Council of State finds it too easy to exclude spawning areas and assessments from a wide range of activities. It's pretty shocking. We have a proposal in our position today which simply means that we can treat spawning areas and spawning areas in a non-discriminatory manner, in line with the professional assessments of the Directorate of Fisheries. I can't see one place – even though the Council of State has been asked many times by many journalists – what is the basis for a not equalizing it, as the Directorate of Fisheries has recommended. Why doesn't the Council of States follow it? No one has received an answer. No one knows the truth. What professional reason is behind, no one knows. How is that possible? I ask the Council of State to come and answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1291	Yes, the representative of the Knag County will have the answer. In the case of spawning grounds, among other things: not accurate enough in relation to what is here. However, it is correct that both the HI and the Fisheries Directorate, after the hearing on this matter, have pointed out that these things should be seen in the context. On that basis, we have just sent an order to the Fisheries Directorate to assess today's legislation against precisely these issues. So it's going to be done by the Fisheries Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1300	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1316	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to three replies be given by the main speakers for each group and six replies by members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1325	The Economic and Social Committee has examined the proposal of representatives from SV to ensure value creation and employment in coastal communities. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on good and constructive cooperation. I would also like to thank all those who have made representations through both consultation and dialogue with the Committee. The Labour Party agrees with much of the intention of the proposal and also commends the SV for raising an important debate. Therefore, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, has also proposed that this proposal be seen in the context of the examination of the notification of allowances and obligations notified to the Stortingen this spring. For the Workers' Party, industrial policy is about strategically investing in those areas where we have particularly good prospects for success, such as seafood. In our development of the fisheries policy, the Labour Party is committed to creating safe jobs, which are also forward-looking, both at sea and on land. Then the social contract between the sea and the land is very important. Today we see that too little of the fish picked up by the sea helps create jobs on land. It's a challenge, and it makes us miss out on great opportunities in the form of permanent all-year jobs and increased value creation. However, we are critical of SV's solution in the proposal, which is to wind up the so-called obligation system for the cod trawls we have in the north. The meaning of the obligation system is to ensure that the fishing industry in Northern, Troms and Finnmark has equal access to raw materials, which, in turn, will ensure annual jobs. We fully agree that it does not work optimally, but the Workers' Party's answer is not to wind up. We want to develop to make it work according to our intentions. The fish covered by the compulsory system belong to the community. There shall be a support bar for future value creation in the communities concerned. The government has announced that there will be a big message about the seafood industry during the spring. A proposal for a solution to the obligations shall also be presented. We have great expectations for that work, and we look forward to discussing the matter. We hope the Minister for Fisheries will be able to develop a proposal for a good system, rather than once again proposing closure. The working party believes that the system needs to be modernised and adjusted in order to contribute to the objective of ensuring a level and stable supply of raw material to industry. The obligation to provide must be strengthened so that it functions as intended. In Stamsund, Melbu, Hammerfest, Storbukt, Kjøllefjord and Båtsfjord, there is today an obligation to work. It must be maintained. However, more attention should also be paid to whether industry can influence the pattern of fishing to a greater extent than at present. Then we have to look at whether to make processing obligations more flexible and unbureaucratic. For the Workers' Party, it is also important that you have the beam ladder. The fact that you have different sizes on the boats is very important to ensure a smooth access to raw materials for the industry. But it is also the case that if you do not fulfil your obligations, we need to see if you can move and allocate the allowances to ships that are more able to enter into binding agreements with these accommodating coastal communities. For the Workers' Party, the aim is to get the fish that are subject to the obligations, on land and into the facilities, so that we can create activity and jobs along the coast. With this I address what the proposal Workers' Party is part of. I would also like to say that we support proposal No. 6 from Red. We think that the rest of the proposals should be looked at in the context of the matter that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1344	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1351	We see now that salmon is produced from many nations, from many continents, and it pop up plants both here and there, almost on all continents, you can get the impression. This means that we need to facilitate the most competitive and competitive industry in a tough international competition. Therefore, our future focus should be on how we can make sure that the industry can grow. After the weekend's national meeting and the announcements from the head of the Workers' Party that the seafood industry has not been identified as one of Norway's winning industries, and with all the proposals we are dealing with here in the Stortinget today that are weakening the industry – what will the Workers' Party do to strengthen the possibility of the industry growing further?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1358	Now it's like I was at that country meeting; it wasn't Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. I can send a lot of the proposals that we made there, which are about the development of the seafood industry, but I think we do that outside the hall. I disagree with the premise that today we are dealing with many things that are a handicap to the industry. But we fully agree that we have to process a lot more at home instead of outside. Then we must have strategies for this, and among other things. the Workers' Party has set up its own Whitefish strategy here in the Chamber. This government does not want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1365	It is difficult to find out what the Labour Party really wants, even in view of the debate we had earlier today. It's clear what you want to evaluate, but where will you go? In the same case, it is noted that stability between fleet groups has been programmed, but at the same time it is requested to consider a solution where it is moved about. 50000 tonnes of fish from the trawler group to the coastal fleet; So what do you really want?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1370	I notice the rhetorical grips the representative does, but I think he can also read, and he can read in the settings where the Workers' Party is involved in proposals. It is not unnatural that when it comes to a bigger issue for the Storting that deals with the obligations, you ask that all kinds of proposals, including those that you may not agree with yourself, be evaluated. That is what the Workers' Party is asking for in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1375	The obligation system has been evaluated many times, and we had on Storting's order a commission of our own, which settled the question about the obligation system. They concluded that now the obligations were so depleted that there was nothing left – except the obligation of activity – in the original intentions of the scheme. It had been turned upside down. From the fact that one was to get value creation along the coast and in the north, it had become a system of business economic profitability for a few. Then is my question to the representative and the spokesperson for fisheries policy in the Labour Party: does the Labour Party now see that the time for these duties is over in its present form, and does the representative see that the solution must be to go back to the original idea, that these fish quantities should contribute to the creation of value and industry on land based on fresh fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1380	After all, the Workers' Party has not accepted the SV's proposal, so we obviously do not fully agree on how to solve the challenges. But we agree with the description that not everything works optimally, and we want to get more processing. Then the trawlers are also an important part of it, to make sure that the industry gets raw material all year round, not just in the time we're in now, which is a seasonal peak. We need fish to come in also in the autumn. Therefore, we do not fully agree on how to do this, but we ask that the SV's proposal be taken into account when we need to have a comprehensive assessment of it. That's how the Workers' Party always works -- we want to see things in a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1385	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1391	I believe that the proposers here come up with a proposal that is suitable for breaking the one principle that we have heard unisonably from fishermen's organisations, that they want to maintain their own compromise from the Finnmark model on stability between fleet groups. The proposal is suitable for creating uncertainty about large investments and jobs at sea and land. The proposal being promoted is perhaps the most appropriate to reduce the processing of Norwegian fish in Norway and to jeopardize Norway’s share of the cod quota. There is no doubt that this proposal has been promoted in the best possible sense. The dangers of implementing this are so obvious that at least I don't need to do any investigation of it. The hearing shall include, inter alia: The fishing team, through former Minister of Fisheries from the Workers' Party, Otto Gregussen, clearly announced not to touch the stability of fleet groups. We have heard from the dominant operator in the duty system, Seafish, that what is claimed to be delivered only a very small proportion of the catch for processing on land in Norway is not true. That's also the result of the landing notes. Even in the form of a note, it is suggested that frozen fish are not suitable for processing. Then I would like to remind you that the absolute largest volume of cod processing in Norway is in the form of cuttlefish, and much frozen raw material is used to smooth out the seasonal fluctuations. There is some reason why the cutting fish part of the production has succeeded better than others. In addition, at least one plant is under construction. We have also been informed through the hearing that there is no automatic way that fresh fish are processed in Norway and frozen fish do not. About the same amount of frozen and fresh round fish are sold out of the country. We have also been documented that the coastal fleet, especially the smaller length classes, is fishing very seasonally, and here I agree with the representative Cecilie Myrseth in her comment during the line change now. A transfer of these allowances to this group of vessels would most likely reinforce these seasonal fluctuations and give more fish in peak seasons and smaller fish on land during the low season. It means fewer full-year jobs. This means more direct exports of round fish in the peak season. It means less processing and fewer jobs on land. In addition, we have been well described by GPS data that these trawls fish for much of the year in areas where the coastal fleet cannot go, with the exception of the near-beams of the ‘Mega Coast’. This means that large parts of the catch that are currently being taken by cod and shrimp in the Barents Sea will not be taken. In my opinion, this could threaten our quota share of Norwegian Arctic cod in the next round. I stress that this is my assessment. These are historically conditional, but when a coastal state voluntarily and without constant justification removes half of its historical fishing in an area, which I know never happened, we are in a situation where other coastal states will demand to take over. Especially in the Svalbard zone, I believe that this is a very challenging situation. I am probably a little disappointed with what I experience as double communication from the Workers' Party and SV – and now we got a loose proposal from the Center Party, which means that I can probably call it triple communication. These are parties which, in the form of the programme, have supported the historical compromise of the fisheries organisations on the stability of fleet groups. It's a little wobbly about the way they're now double communicating in this case, saying that they've programmed it, but yet they've decided to go away from what they've programmed. It creates uncertainty, I mean. We will go against these proposals because they provide uncertainty, they are against the wishes of the Fisheries Team, and they will lead to fewer jobs, less light in the houses, and could endanger our resource base.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1413	I didn't really intend to take a line, but now you continue immediately as you have heard in the previous cases. You show that it's double communication, and that it's unclear what you mean. I just want a deepening. What do you really mean by that? Is it unclear that you want to get things straight up? Is it not a fairly predictable and good way to deal with the procedure, that when you are going to deal with the obligation system – where the Nilsen government is the reason we have spent so long – you have to evaluate all kinds of proposals in such a case? The question is, what do you really think when you say that there are double communications, when you don't understand what we've put in our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1420	I understand very well what has been included in the proposal. But again, on the basis of the matter we discussed earlier today: when you propose to investigate something, it may be because you just want more knowledge. In this case, however, it is asked to investigate something that is such a fundamental violation of the Finnmark model – with its own programming and the model we have for fisheries in Norway today – that something more than what you are asking for is to be investigated. We experience it so that this creates uncertainty in the industry and a fear that you actually carry out what you are asking here to investigate. And that would be a disaster for the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1429	I also want it to be elaborated: what do you mean by that? Who has said that this is a disaster and a crisis and that it creates unforeseeable assessment in a wider context? I haven't heard such a cry that this creates so much trouble outside, so can the representative be so kind as to elaborate what he means?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1434	I believe that the reason no one has called yet is that there are relatively few who have brought it with them. What we're saying here is that we want to consider moving half of the trawler group's quota to the coastal fleet. You'll have an assessment of that. It's such a dramatic measure that I think it's a good basis to say that there's uncertainty in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1441	The drama is not there. The drama is that we have a system, a duty system, which I'm pretty sure is also Nilsen's own party I think is a scandal. The obligation commission solved the question of the system as it has developed is in line with the original intentions. They found out that no, that was unrecognizable. With the exception of the obligation of activity, the whole obligation system was not to recognise. The original intentions, which were the same as the starting point of the Sea Resource Act, that the wild marine resources should benefit the community and contribute to the employment and settlement of coastal communities, have been broken. That was the expert review from the Duty Commission. Then the question is – because in the previous round we discussed this, the government thought that one had to wind up this system: Does the representative Nilsen think that we should wind up this system and get this system and this quantity over to the original intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1448	First of all, I want to distance myself from the fact that this quantity is not used on the basis of the original intention. And then I'll also take away from the reality description that it's the catch point that's the problem in the duty system. On the contrary, I see that much of the year is the fishing point that delivers the vast majority of what is processed in Norway on land, thus contributing to employment and ‘light in the house’. What's the problem with the obligation system, as I see it, is a far too narrow definition of what's allowed to produce from the raw material that comes ashore. That is why, in many cases, the company to which the offer is given ends up buying the same fish from the same boat, but outside the obligation system, in order to produce from what gives profitability and jobs where they are. For example, processing is not accepted to sell the best quality screams to hundreds of dollars the kilo to the most beautiful restaurants in Europe. It is not approved within the obligation system, but I believe it is value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1455	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1460	Today we have an abundance of raw materials in the first quarter, which means that the Norwegian agricultural industry does not have the capacity to process more than a third of the catch landed. Moving a greater share from the sea-going fleet to the coastal fleet, to which the SV proposal refers, will dramatically strengthen an already extreme seasonal character by landing an even greater proportion in the first quarter and sending round and unprocessed out of the country. This will result in the loss of the ability to create a value that a further processing can create. In addition, there are significant challenges to maintaining full-year jobs on land. The representative Adelsten Iversen of the Senterpartiet has also repeatedly claimed that the Senterpartiet will take the quotas from the trawls and give them to the coastal fleet. I note that the Central Party in this case does not support the SV's proposal. It makes me ask questions about whether the Central Party has different policies depending on whether they are at public meetings, in debates or in the Stortinget. It will be exciting to see what they really think, when this matter is to be dealt with and voted on. In order to create and maintain important shore-side jobs across the coast of Norway, one of the main factors is that we have a varied fleet structure: the smallest coastal fleet, the smallest coastal rock that delivers during the season when the fish is near the coast and in the fjord systems in the north, the larger coastal fleet, which reaches more space sea when the fish are further away from land, and not least the sea-going fleet, which can supply raw material to the land industry in the third and fourth quarters, when the raw material is far away from the Norwegian coast. Around half of the quota factors in the cod trawl group were offered in 2016. Today's obligation system needs to be modified to ensure that the scheme meets its objective better than today, but shifting quotas from the sea-going fleet to the coastal fleet will have dramatic consequences for the rural industry. I can draw out a couple of examples from my home country that will illustrate this. We have the Nordkin quota, which was set up to help create new rural jobs. One of the prerequisites was to shift catches from the main season to other periods of the year to ensure raw material for the agricultural industry. It turned out that coastal fishermen could not supply raw material to the agricultural industry because it was not possible to fish it in the surrounding area, which eventually led to the withdrawal of that quota. Moving cod and hake quotas from the sea fleet to the coastal fleet, as SV wants, will lead to the disappearance of all-year-old jobs along the coast. Another example I would like to mention, which shows the importance of the seagoing fleet, is Lerøy Norway Seafoods in Båtsfjord. They had an order for the sea fleet of 100 tonnes and they had a head coat of cod on the berth on 2 January at 2. 07.00 in order to start the production of fillet in the morning – and 70 tonnes of headgear and gutted fish delivered to berth on 2 January at 7:00 p.m. 07.00 in Melbu to start production. The coastal fleet would never have been able to deliver that quantity to that time, so to have full-time jobs to create continuity, we are totally dependent on seagoing fleets. The Progress Party wants full-year jobs across the coast and increased value creation with the processing of raw materials. Therefore, the Progress Party will not support the proposals that are available here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1485	I have some questions for the representative of the government party Progress Party. It's about: What if you don't fulfil the obligations? It has also been said in the government platform that you want to do something about the unfortunate aspects of duties. What are the unfortunate aspects of duties? And then one last question – the representative will almost choose what he wants to answer: It is also the case that to have full-year jobs and secure the industry, all parts of the fleet are important. How do you make sure that you get all the parts of the fleet, including the middle part, which the industry itself points to as very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1492	‘If you do not fulfil the obligations’, the representative says – I do not know that there are jets today that do not fulfil the obligations. It is a rhetoric of the Workers' Party that they claim that the fleet does not fulfil their obligations. Then you discuss the matter on a completely wrong basis. the sea fleet fulfils its obligations under its intention today; But that there are unfortunate aspects to that, we can agree on, and we also want to try to clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1497	The representative said that communities by society got too much fish — something like that. What's a fact is that communities are screaming for fish because you don't have enough raw material. We have now come into the situation that the sea is submerged by fish, but more have to close because you don't have raw material, also in the representative's home country. What does the representative think is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1502	I was aware that in the first quarter we have a peak in week 10, 11, 12, where we deliver three times more than the Norwegian agricultural industry manages to produce, which means that we export the raw materials round and unprocessed out of the country. Then we have a third and fourth quarter challenge, where the land industry does not get enough raw material, where it screams for raw material. We see examples from, for example: Nordkyn. The fishing fleet cannot deliver the quantity necessary to maintain a full-year job. Then we are totally dependent on the seagoing fleet to ensure full-time agricultural work. Society has moved on. It is not the case today that you want a job where you work three months a year, and then you have to go as a jobseeker for the rest of the year. The marine fleet is important to provide raw materials for communities screaming for raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1511	This is too simple. It's not like the mandatory trawlers only deliver in the parts of the year the coastal fleet doesn't deliver. After all, large parts of the quantity that the mandatory trawlers deliver are fished in season, contrary to what was intended in the entire order. Doesn't the representative see that we have a fleet here where too little land in Norway? Most of it is frozen, and half of the frozen quantity goes to China. Does not the representative, who actually comes from Finnmark, who has traditionally been a strong fishing force, and who is totally dependent on having a central role in Norwegian fishing, see that the system we have today is a bottling of value creation in his state?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1524	As a Finnish mark, in a state that is highly fishing dependent along the coast – we have a number of communities that are not quite so dependent on fishing – I see the importance that we have a seagoing trawler that delivers fish to the land industry, which contributes to the creation of annual jobs. We also have a chess fleet that fishes in the first quarter, which helps us get a huge peak in the landings in that time, and that makes us get the cod exported unprocessed and round out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1529	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1534	I want to start by thanking SV for presenting this proposal, so that we get this debate in advance of the government's big message about the quota system and the obligation system. When it comes to the obligation system, I think there's quite a consensus that it doesn't work according to the intentions -- the original intentions that were behind it. There is also a broad consensus that the duty itself is followed by industry, but that is the intention, the goal. And there was one thought behind that one made an exception to the Participant Act, so that the industry could own trawlers and have quotas. What this is really about is: if not the foundation behind it, that the industry could own or have quotas, then what should be the consequence? Should it be the industry that keeps these quotas? Or maybe you should do something with these quotas. Per Sandberg makes a big announcement about the obligation system. In that context, the Central Party said that we believe that the obligation system should be assessed in conjunction with the quota system. It looked like something of the stupidest Per Sandberg had ever heard, and he traveled the coast and made fools of the Center Party's view of seeing the quota system in connection with the obligation system. Now, that's exactly what the government has notified them that they want to do. When it comes to SV's suggestion of a relapse, there are some things that you can object to. Firstly, no time has been set for the government to deliver on it, and a transition of allowances has a time frame of 15-30 years. The centre party is aware that the fish will be delivered on land quickly and that the industry will have access to the raw material quickly. Therefore, we have asked the government to work out and evaluate the proposal from SV and come back to Stortinget with it before the summer. I have to say that I react to the right hand part's response to SV's proposal. SV and the Central Party share the engagement from the coast and from the coastal fishermen. That's what I think more people should do. Because this is about getting more fish on land. It's about securing raw materials for the industry. The centre party has made an own proposal today – it informs us in the committee in connection with the release as well as in the media. That proposal is now on the table on behalf of the Central Party. It says that if this is not fulfilled – unless the intention, which was the basis for the exemption from the Participant Act, is met – there will be consequences, and the consequence is that a transfer of allowances from the trawlers, the industrial trawlers, to the coastal fleet. Preferably after our program, there's also the smallest part of the coastal fleet we want to make use of that kind of transfer. So if this is true, we've heard from the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, almost ridiculed. But what was in Meld? St. 20 for 2016-17, which the government later withdrew? Well, there it was that as part of giving away the activity obligation, allowances were to be transferred. So the Right Party and the Advance Party themselves have been on such a proposal. Then it's a little bit suspicious when a now ridicules what's said here. Only a short comment on proposal No. 6 from Red. It is your desire to support the Center Party. It's just what we're busy about: how are we going to make sure that the fish that's off our coast is biting for land-based avalanche? And that's where I think the government party jumps a little bit over some things. Among other things, the withdrawn notification states that the government proposing will contribute to the decommissioning of industrial plants. It will have consequences for local communities along the coast. That's the difference between believing in Norway and the way the Center Party does, we believe in Norway as a whole. So I'm going to take up the proposal that the Center Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1555	The representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1562	In the double communication category, I think the Center Party is taking the cake. You do not support the SV's proposal on repatriation despite the fact that the Central Party representative from Finnmark travels around the country and the beach and tells them to move all allowances from the trawls to the chess boat. Isn't that misleading people? Isn't that misleading the people of the north? What is the central party's position in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1568	The central party's position in this matter will be very clear from the setting. That is why we have said that we want to sort out SV's proposal. We have put forward an own proposal, and I think that is a good reason for this. There is no dispute in the Centre Party that if the conditions for the obligations are not met, they shall have meaning for the allowances. What we are basically a few about in the Central Party is that the fish that is off our coast should contribute to living communities throughout the country. It is the way in the Central Party that when we have representatives from all over the country, they should be heard as representatives from all over the country; they should not be heard as Oslo representatives with the Nordic dialect. I think that separates the Center Party from some other party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1575	We all want value creation and activity along the coast. I would like to ask the representative Pollestad first: If SV's proposal had received a majority, what would you have said to the fillet workers in Båtsfjord, who stood without fish on 2 January? You also stated that if the terms of the obligation are not fulfilled, they should be revoked. Can you mention any trawlers that do not fulfil the obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1582	The President would like to point out that the representatives do not have to tell each other when they are in the pulpit, and preferably let the speech go through the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1587	I understand that that correction was to the representative of Strifeldt. Firstly, if SV’s proposal had been agreed – but SV’s proposal is not accepted. If it had been plural for SV's proposal, there would also have been another parliamentary plurality in this Chamber, and the country had had another government, which was more busy on the coast. I would have thought of that as very, very positive. Our assessment of the SV proposal is that it points to an important problem, addressing an important problem. I am asked to name a company or a trawler that does not comply with the obligations, but I believe that if the representative had listened to my post, he would have listened to me say that there are few or no examples. But what we're busy about is that the intentions behind which the industry got its own quota, or has a quota, have to be met. That is what our proposal is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1596	I have a question for the representative Pollestad. He's given reasons for what he doesn't call double communication, so I'm going to leave it, because it's pretty obvious that it's okay to communicate a little differently in Finnmark than it is here in Oslo. It is also quite clear that the representative Pollestad believes it is okay to have a different policy when one is in opposition, than one would have had if one was in position. He answered that in the previous article. But the representative Pollestad said that the Central Party would support proposal No. 6 from Red. Then I would like to ask concretely: should it be distributed equally to the coastal fleet, both for sheet A and sheet B, i.e. open group and closed group? How is the distribution of that thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1603	Let me first say that there is agreement in the Central Party on the proposals that are here. There is no doubt that the Central Party is a party that is represented from all over the country, affecting our policies. The voters in Finnmark know that Finnmark's voice is being heard in the Center Party, and it has meaning for politics and how it is actually designed. What I mean is a strength. When it comes to the proposal from Red: the proposal we support is aimed at securing value creation along the coast, and there is one concrete example, for example. quota accruals. I don't know if it's a good idea, but it's an action that we want to assess when the government is going to figure out what the proposal says.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1610	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1615	There are many myths that have been spun in the debate that we have had now. The representative Margunn Ebbesen claims that SV will remove all beams. Of course, it is wrong, but it is not unusual for Ebbessen to exaggerate a little when she is going to measure the hell on the wall. It's about half of all the cod trawlers, those that are part of the duty system today. Strifeldt points out to Melbu that there would be no Melbu with this proposal. Well, because Melbu, and to the extent Stamsund, is part of the obligation of activity. It is not part of the proposal to remove it. The duty of activity consists, so one can take it out of his reasoning. The representative Nilsen is occupied with rock fish, that this will go down on rock fish. But the cod industry can also accept fresh fish. High-quality freshwater fish is something that the entire rockfish industry would be delighted to have access to, but it is just as if it had to be frozen fish, from far to sea, in order for the rockfish industry to function. It's an interesting mythical spin. The strifeldt also claims that then there will be no full-year jobs. 70 pst. of the quantity of these companies coming from the coastal fleet today. Besides, we also know that much of the amount of mandatory trawlers will be in the middle of the season when they are not supposed to fish. If one had periodically perioded it on the coast, as SV has arranged for many times, one could get an all-year effect out of it, within reasonable limits, of course. No more seas than the sea can provide. This is a industry that is actually seasonal, but one could spread it out in a much better way over the year. This is the story of a system that had the only foundation, and that's that there would be value creation along the coast. That was the whole point. Then we have come in the situation that we have a discussion in the Norwegian big business where a plural thought it's okay that large quantities of frozen fish go straight out of the country, and defend it. For me, it's quite unlikely that we're there. It is so far away from the premise of the system that we should have been given. And where is the business policy in that? Half of all frozen fish caught in Norway go to China — half, while the reception structure along the coast is weakened. We know that there is a risk of bankruptcy along the coast now, with the consequences it could have for coastal fishing. The proposal goes back to the original intentions, simply. How can we get the most out of the sea at the most possible value on land? “What’s the main point of being a big deal, being elected to the people, is to take care of the community’s interests. Then our proposal is very simple. That's the same thing as the government suggested last round. We're going to wind up this system that's really out of time, and then we're going to move that quantity to the coastal fleet. Then someone thought that the coastal fleet that is now, was the same as it was in the 1960s, with open boats that couldn't go when it was a long sea. It is not. The largest coastal boats are larger than the vessels in the obligation jet fleet. They can go further. They can fish all year long. Even the smallest boats in the coastal fleet have a completely different strength on the sea now than before. More stringent requirements may be required. They can fish several species, spread all over the country. In addition, by betting on the coastal fleet, you get a higher quality fish. A higher value is given to the fish because they land regularly freshly on land, with a much more gentle use of helicopters. It does not damage the seabed or get too much by-catch that can damage the biological deficiency. And then we get one exploited fishing resources that we find in all the fjords and bays and ends in this country, which has the second longest coastline in the world. With such a structure, you could get a lot more value creation in Norway. We've done simple calculations of that. One will get many more fishes. One will have more industrial workers, and one will have a much larger value creation on land. But we have a position that stubbornly says we're going to have the system like today. Then I think they're going to fail what's the whole point of having a big deal -- that we're going to make sure that the community's interests are asserted, and make the necessary changes to make sure that we get the most possible value for the most possible. I'll then take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1634	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1641	I will try not to exaggerate, but what most professionals claim – and it also emerged during the hearing – is that a transfer to the coastal fleet will lead to an increase in seasonal fluctuations in the landing of fish. Normally, smaller processing of fish on land and greater exports of round fish will result, with subsequent increased use of off-season permits and higher levels of temporary employment. Is this in line with SV's objectives for the seafood industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1646	I can't remember that we had professional bodies on the phone. It was probably primarily stakeholder organisations that took part in the hearing that we had, and there it was very exhilarating what they meant, based on the kind of interest they represented in the Norwegian community. The whole point of our proposal, and the whole purpose of our fisheries policy, is to make sure that we get the most value creation possible in Norway, and we find it very difficult to go into the Norwegian big business. That's the very simple point. The representative Ebbesen has become the spokesperson of a policy that does not ensure that we get the most out of those values, but which, on the other hand, makes sure that there are a few actors who are attracted to this money. So our intention is to reverse this development, to make sure that the fish come on land, that it creates the most possible value for the most possible – quite in line with what a co-conspirator decided in its time when we adopted the Sea Resource Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1658	Fortunately, in many ways I agree with the representative in many things, but some things we obviously do not agree on, and that is why we also stand on different sides when it comes to the proposals in this case. What we agree on is that we need more processing at home, here in Norway, we need more of our fish being produced and converted to values in Norway. But then my question is: how does the representative Knag Fylkesnes think that if you don't have a fleet that can also deliver to industry in the same way, in the autumn, like today? I hear you say that maybe you can do it with the small boats, but you think you can get a safe access to the industry and develop the industry if you like. Don't the big boats also have jets?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1665	There are two statements on the question that I am responding to. First, this is not to remove all the beams; there are many trawlers left after we subtract the quantity that is part of the obligation. So that's wrong. Secondly, it's not like the coastal fleet can only maybe fish all year long. The coastal fleet is fishing all year today. If someone thinks the opposite, it's wrong. The coastal fleet actually fishes all year long. The fresh fish bonus is a system that has demonstrated it. Even the smallest fleet fishes in the autumn. So going over to a system where we do this periodically, within reasonable limits, I think not only will make sure the corresponding amount on land, but a much larger amount on land and Norwegian resources to Norway, instead of the evolution one has today, where the fish gets far out of the sea, gets frozen down, comes on land, gets auctioned away on the international market, and where half disappears to China. Understand who can, but there we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1675	I think the representative Knag Fylkesnes and I agree that the quota system is some of the most complicated one can get lost as a politician. Historically, it has therefore also been the case that politicians have stepped back and let the industry itself deal with important milestones in Norwegian fishing history, where there have been challenging challenges – in closing down the general public, structuring in the 1990s and early 2000s, and not least in allocating resources between sea and coastal fleets. Now it may seem that both the SV and the Senterpartiet are throwing most inhibitions overboard, moving ahead and launching solutions that are not recommended by the fishing industry, and which at least the Fiskerlage warns against. Does not the representative of Knag Fylkesnes see that this can create problems in achieving the good and broad similarities that will serve both the fishing industry and the fishing industry in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1682	The representative, Mr Reitten, knows just as well as I do that there are major contradictions within the fishing industry, and there are also major contradictions within the Fisheries Team. There may never have been as many contradictions as what we see today. But what's clear is that the Fishlayer places great emphasis on just the one side of this case. The coastal fishing team, which is the other kind of team on this issue, is of a completely different opinion than the Fisherman team. So for the Storting, which has as its only task to make sure that the maximum possible value is taken out of the ocean at the most possible, this is a very important role. We can no longer just leave this to the fishing industry itself. We see what kind of interests dominate, among other things. The fish layer when taking its position, including: in this matter. So if we're going to get a policy that's for the best of society, the Storting needs to take its own stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1689	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1694	I would like to pay tribute to the representative of Knag Fylkesnes for raising the debate, although I do not necessarily agree with everything that emerges. It's interesting to get that dynamics. And as one of the partners from Granavollen, we clearly say that the balance sheet should be fixed in terms of the quota allocation between the fleet groups. With regard to that particular balance sheet, the last replication shows that the balance sheet point is extremely important, even though of course there are disagreements. That's how I've been through all the meetings I've had with the different organizations. But then I would like to point out, as some people did earlier today and were perfectly crystal clear, that the current Secretary-General of the Fiskerlag and former Fisheries Minister Otto Gregussen have said that the balance point in this is extremely important. I'm a little afraid that we're shifting the balance point by starting to rock by this. There is also a broad majority in the United Kingdom that supports the obligation system, which is important for local value creation and employment along the coast. And then it's to take it from the hearing, that both Seafood Norway and LO are critical of SV's proposals, which they think will reinforce the seasonal variations. Nevertheless, I hear very well what the representative Knag Fylkesnes says about this. Feedbacks after I've been to the smaller receptions along the coast, and not least what we have in Rørvik, are that they have problems just getting in from the coastal fleet. The cod gets them in, it gets them in anyway. Who, then, is going to fish and barge at the tamp of the year when they are not taken up by the coastal fleet? Is it also a thoughtful strategy, or is it just the movement of allowances in the case of cod, or is it the total bit? What is the feedback from a small reception along the trombone layer coast is that they have problems getting in just the other fishing teams. By-catch is mentioned here. By-catch is important, but one must also take into account that more and more of our local fishermen in the south of the country are heading north. It's not just like in the last Viking, where Johan Bojer writes about when they sailed up from Trondelag and rowed up on fishing there – now the sharks also sail up. The challenge of this must also be taken with us. It's not just the cod we can talk about, we have to talk about the other species. I think it makes sense to have a careful approach to the obligation system. I agree – there are several people who have mentioned adverse effects; in the case, SV and Knag Fylkesnes take this up themselves – there are a number of things that need to be corrected. But the balance point, which has also been discussed by the Secretary-General of the Fisheries Team and former Fisheries Minister Gregussen, I think it is particularly important not to be confused. I believe the duty system is also about ensuring that we have people and business, that it's ownership of the resources the sea gives us. However, predictability is also important and not least the flexibility in this. Through the fine-skinned system that has been around for many, many years in this regard, I think it's important to have it as a base and not just change for the sake of change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1714	I thought I followed the reasoning of the representative well on the way in a lot, but there was something I hung up on – the consideration around it with a balance point. It is my opinion, and there is certainly no one who is particularly disunity in it, that the balance in Norwegian fishing has, to say the word, long been unbalanced. We see it, for example. that we have almost free design, which means that one has the right to participate in one group, but actually the size of one completely different. One sees itself of boats of larger and larger lengths, which means Seafood Norway, the Fishlayer Nord, the coastal fishing team etc. warns against this development – that we have a very unbalanced development, that we no longer have a different fleet group, which was the intention of this system. This will be a way to balance that development and come back on track to the intentions of the fisheries policy. What does the representative think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1719	I think it's an interesting point of view Knag County takes up here. I've also looked at the adjustments that have happened within maybe the smallest groups in particular to get into a larger group, where there's no relation to quota size. These points of view I choose to take with me. I have thought about it in the past too, but I have no clear idea of what I have landed on in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1724	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1729	In this case SV proposes to wind up the obligation system for cod trawlers in the north and redeploy quotas to the coastal fleet under defined conditions. The redistribution shall take place over a period of 15 to 30 years. The centre party has, on the upstream side, promoted an even more far-reaching proposal, proposing a redistribution to be carried out within a time horizon of two years if no given assumptions are met. It is a proposal we record that the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has also taken a clear distance from on behalf of SV in social media. The Christian People's Party is skeptical of the proposals being promoted in this matter, for several reasons. Several hearing bodies, including LO and NNN, strongly warned that the seasonal peaks of the fishing industry will be reinforced if quotas are transferred to the coastal fleet as proposed by the proposers. Concerns were also expressed that the proposal could lead to a weakening of the possibility of harvesting other species. This, in turn, could lead to the fishing industry in other parts of the country, for example: The cod industry in the West could be adversely affected. The Norwegian Fisheries Team warned in its consultation opinion against the proposal because it calls for a significant redistribution of the resource base between fleet groups. The distribution we have today has been able to achieve after sloppy, but lasting settlements within the fishing industry. Putting this into play with the proposals of the SV and the Center Party will cause great unrest throughout the industry. Indeed, the proposers are looking elegantly at a very important compromise in the Norwegian fishing industry, which fishermen themselves have negotiated, namely the distribution of quotas between coast and sea in the jet path. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that there have been challenges in getting the duty system to function on purpose, and that it has not contributed to creating so many profitable all-year jobs in the fishing industry, which was the intention when the duties were introduced in their time. These challenges have been the background to several adjustments in the obligation system. The Government statement states that this system must be cleaned up in an unfortunate way, and the government has warned that during the spring there will be a notification of the quota system in fisheries. In this context, a solution to the obligation system will also be presented. The Christian People's Party believes that the right thing to do is to deal with issues relating to the obligation system in the context of the notified notification, so that the Stortinget can clarify how it should be organised to ensure that the intention of the scheme is fulfilled and to contribute to increased predictability of the industry. This Communication will also allow for a more knowledge-based debate on the obligation system. The Christian People's Party will therefore not support the proposals that are being promoted today. We note that the Workers' Party also supports an approach whereby the declaration of the obligation system must be related to the Storting's treatment of the notified quota notification. We value that. It should be possible to reach broad agreements in such a demanding case, which is about both resource allocation, district policy and industrial policy. We are concerned that representatives' proposals which are as far-reaching as the Socialist Left and the Central Party have promoted in this matter could make such compromises difficult. The debate has begun before the notification has arrived. It has started by sounding down to wreck shipwreck settlements between different fleet groups within the fishing industry, and expectations are created that may be difficult to meet with demanding compromise solutions. So the danger is that the parties will lock their positions, which in our opinion is very unfortunate. Both fishermen and seafood feed are injured if the issue of the quota system and the obligation system ends with a trench war in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1752	In Report. St. 20 for 2016-2017, the ‘compulsory message’ – the one drawn – suggests a shortening of the allowances for this part of the trawl fleet and a shortening of the quotas to the closed groups below 15 metres in Troms, Finnmark and Nordland. After hearing the representative's comments today, I understand that the Christian People's Party is against all adjustments between the fleet groups, and my question is really just: Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1757	The history of the signing of the mission notice was a resolution at the 2017 Christian People's Party National Meeting, which focused on the importance of safeguarding the interests of the coastal communities in the north. It's a starting point that the Christian People's Party still has when we go into this. Then I record that both the representative Pollestad and others are now trying to lure representatives from the government parties into the glacier in view of the work being done on the quota notification, and what it says about the obligation system. I don't want to go into that any more than to say that we have seen the Minister for Fisheries as interested in dialogue, and we feel that we have had a good dialogue so far also on the work to come up with proposals for adjusting the obligation system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1764	I thank you for your answer. There is a lot to tell about the history of junk messages being dragged. The representative, Reitten, said in his post that it was desirable for one to have a broad settlement. Then the representative in reply to me now says that there is a dialogue with the Council of State on the obligation message. I'll be a little in doubt. Is it such that one sees a broad settlement, or does one see that the government is going to come to the Storting with a finished scheme? And in that case, what time will the opposition party that can secure a wide multiple be included in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1771	There are many who follow debates in the main hall – many more than we think about. I believe that today there are representatives both of the fishing industry and of the fishing industry who are following this debate with horror and with concern, because one sees that this is going wrong. A debate started prematurely, before the message was completed, and before one has the opportunity to enter into a dialogue on these questions. We in the Christian People's Party have as our starting point that yes, we want as far as possible – as a small party, with 4 pst. information — to contribute to a good dialogue on these issues and, if possible, to the broad similarities that will benefit the entire Norwegian fishing industry and the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1778	If you want to get the whole size of this work, the process would start a long time ago, but we in the opposition have not received a single request, so it doesn't seem like it's over. In his statement, the representative Reiten claimed that this was a very additional proposal, but this is the same thing as the government suggested last time, i.e. that one should wind up the obligation arrangement. We have had several rounds of experts on this, and everyone has concluded that the obligation system does not work after the intention and should be terminated. So besides, it's-- one should remove a scheme that doesn't work. It's very far-reaching, according to the representative of Reiten. The question then is: I noticed that the representative said there was a discussion about adjusting the obligation system between the government party. Why do you consider not to wind this up and go for a scheme that is more in line with the intentions of the marine resource laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1787	It is an additional proposal when the Central Party says that within a two-year period, one will return allowances or transfer allowances from the sea to the coastal fleet without specifying how much of the quota base we are talking about. Here we should remember that cod trawlers with duties actually dispose of one third of the total cod quota. Here we're talking about very large parts of the same resource base. I mean, I keep my words. The proposals that are being promoted here on the reallocation of fishing resources are far-reaching. I was at Stortinget in the spring of 2013 when the representative Knag Fylkesnes and the government he represents presented his message on the aquaculture industry, the farming industry and the fishing industry. It was also pointed out that it is difficult to achieve profitability in processing in the north, and that it is difficult to achieve an even distribution of raw materials resources. These are not new issues. The red-green government was unable to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1794	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1799	The fish in the sea belongs to the Norwegian people in common. The fish may not be owned by individuals or companies and shall be managed for the benefit of workplaces and coastal settlements. The fish must be harvested sustainably within the limits of nature's tolerance, and it is good that SV now raises the issue of the ownership of the fish here on the Stortinget. When the trawler fleet was established, they received a derogation from the participant law to ensure stable supply of raw materials and profitability to the shore-based industry. Unfortunately, the trawler fleet has not fulfilled its obligations. People along the coast know that the quota barons in the trawler fleet are not to be trusted, but deliver only a small proportion of the fish to land. Time after time, the agreements that caused them to be exempted from the law break. In our view, those who break the social contract must be stopped. It should of course be clear that repeated breaches of obligations should lead to the loss of their rights today and, in the long term, all allowances belonging to the fleet of trawls should be returned to the coastal fleet. Last year, the six trawls belonging to the Vesterålen fished 17 000 tons of cod — fish that benefited the coastal communities to a small extent. This year the quotas are slightly lower, yet the many hundreds of vessels in the open group have 17 000 tonnes of cod in total. This isn't random. A few family dynasties today control one third of the cod rights and act as if they are the owners of the fish – in violation of both the law and the community – and they have done so for many years with the blessing of the government. Unfortunately, the government chooses a side with the least environmentally friendly part of the fishing fleet. On the other hand, the coastal fleet has lower greenhouse gas emissions per kilogram of fish than the trawler fleet and also less by-catch and other emissions. And while the coastal fleet goes ashore with the fish, the trawls often choose to freeze the fish on board and sell it unprocessed out of the country. It's damaging to the coastal communities and the Norwegian economy, which each year misses billions of dollars because we're not further processing fishing resources here in the country. In addition, today’s quota system means that it is almost impossible for young people to enter the fishing profession. It is not only harmful for individuals, but also for coastal culture and the possibility of receiving raw materials when needed. The right to fish has been privatised when buying an allowance to start fishing costs millions of dollars. A redistribution of allowances from the trawler fleet must benefit the smallest vessels. If at least half goes to Group II, it will again open the door for young fishermen. As long as the quotas remain on the hands of trawlers, their obligations must be respected, the obligation to offer must again be universal and the processing obligation must be respected. Coastal communities and receptions along our coast need raw materials all year round. The fishing industry cannot and should not be a seasonal industry with hired workers exposed to social dumping. Instead, we have to get full-year work with permanent employees. The knowledge of workers has built many of the country's major industries. We must learn from this when we are going back to the fishing industry along the coast of Norway. That is why we believe that quotas need to be streamlined, so that fish are taken ashore even in the harvest and can ensure employment, processing and value creation all year round. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1816	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1823	The representative of Moxnes is good at tagging people, whether they work in the care and care sector, or they work at sea. I just want to make a few calls not to put these labels on people, whether there are barons or profiters in this context. The first thing I would like to ask is this: a statement came directly from the representative of Mr Moxnes here from the Chair that the fish do not come ashore in Norway. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1831	First of all, these claims about labels: we haven't said anything about either those who work in the health and care sector or those who work on board the fishing boats. We value the workers very much. They should get more back for the job they do, and not experience that the owners take more of the value creation, which unfortunately is supported by the Right in any context – when you look at their policies in the different social fields. We haven't labeled those who work, but we call a spade for a spade in terms of those who earn money, among other things. the health and care industry, or those who hold huge allowances of what is the Community's resources and who ignore their obligations. We respond to the fact that fish from Norwegian waters create more jobs in the EU than they do in Norway, and that is because not all fish are delivered as it should. We need more fish to land in Norway to be processed in Norwegian soil and in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1838	I record that it is quite clear that the representative does not know what is going on in Norway, for most of the fish come on land in Norway. The next thing the representative said from the pulpit was that he wanted a smoother distribution throughout the year. Normally, such a redistribution as is outlined here will lead to higher peaks and deeper valleys for seasonal fishing, precisely because it is when the fish come into the country, that the smallest boats can take it. It is simply the legislation that prevents them from going far enough to take the fish parts of the year, because of where the fish is. Does the representative of Moxnes realize that this could lead to further seasonal fluctuations, more workers in temporary employment and fewer in full-time employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1847	On the contrary, the problem now is that a lot of fish are being taken up in a very short time, and that land-based industry is far from relying on local labour, not giving jobs to young people who are out of work in the countryside, but unfortunately far too much catching up on workers who can be paid less because they come from Eastern Europe and who are used in the processing industry on land. We both need to tighten this up, and we need to ensure that fish are delivered larger parts of the year, and that not everything is collected for a season, in order to provide raw material to the industry on land. If you don't, you break the processing chain on which the coastal communities are completely dependent, and which is necessary to ensure employment, housing, value creation and a future for young people in these professions, which unfortunately is weakened by today's policies, the larger parts of the quotas go to the larger ones, and where there is too much barrier to getting into the profession for those who don't have much capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1852	That a large part of the allowances go to the largest ones is objectively incorrect. Let's not question it. We have good data on this. I react especially to a production, and I would like to ask about it: a lot of places along the coast have the only option to get stable labour has been that people have moved from, among other things. Latvia and Poland and resided among others in Båtsfjord, established with family and became a stable labour force up there which has ensured that the Båtsfjord farm and Norway Seafoods have had stable labour and have been able to deliver throughout the year. Isn't it a good thing that people who have had a lot of trouble getting a real living where they come from have come there and got a real job?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1859	Red is very much for labour immigration as long as it takes place under Norwegian tariff conditions and is not about underpayments, below the level you would pay people who live in Norway and have their family here. That's what we call social dumping. ‘Social jumping’ is probably referred to as in Civita and Right circles, but underpayment in this way is social dumping. I have been to processing establishments where there have been major problems with extensive social dumping and unionism in order for the owners to pay as much as possible for the labour force. They fly in people from Eastern Europe, underpay them, fly them back home and take advantage of them rather than give them the pay they deserve, in line with what people with Norwegian address and Norwegian origin would get. This is both ethnic and social discrimination which is unfortunately organised by the EEA Agreement, which allows employers to use people in this way. We're against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1869	When it comes to the duty system for cod trawlers, there are often misconceptions about what the duties are and what the duties are not. I would therefore like to start by saying a few words about them. The obligation to provide fish is an obligation to provide facilities or regions in North Norway. The eligible holdings or geographical areas are shown in the individual concession terms. There is an obligation to offer 46.5 out of a total of 87.9 quota factors in the cod trawl group, i.e. about half of the factors in this group. The cod trawl group is part of the Norwegian cod quotas in the fisheries for cod north of 62 degrees north and is a little less than one third of the total quotas, and there is therefore an obligation to offer about one sixth of Norwegian cod quotas. The processing obligation obliges them to process fish, catch of cod, purchased under the obligation to offer. This obligation obliges the fishing industry, fishing establishments buying catches under the obligation to offer, to process at least 70 pst. of cod catches before re-sale. The obligation lies in the facilities that buy fish offered through the offer, so cod trawlers are not subject to processing obligations. The obligation of activity, on the other hand, imposes an obligation on undertakings to maintain a certain level of processing activity in specific fish-processing plants. There is currently one company, and it is Marine Fish AS, which is subject to conditions of activity through different subsidiaries. The company has about 30 quota factors in the cod trawl group, i.e. one third of the quota shares of the cod trawl group. The proposals of the representatives would result in a significant redistribution from the cod trawling group to the coastal fleet. The widespread redistribution proposed by the representative is contrary to the broad fisheries policy agreement to maintain a differentiated structure on the fishing fleet. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee recommends that the Stortinget reject the proposal. The cod trawler is one of the most efficient and profitable groups in the fishing fleet and contributes to good and safe jobs both on board vessels and in the fishing industry. The cod trawls are mainly fishing outside the main season, and redistribution to the coastal fleet is likely to lead to an intensification of seasonal fishing, since the coastal fleet cannot fish as far off as the sea fishing fleet, where the fish is outside the main season. In 2016, for example, nearly 80 pst. the catch of the cod in the first four months of the year by the coastal fleet. The corresponding proportion for the group of trawlers was 27 pst. Enhanced seasonal fluctuations will be a disadvantage for industry, which depends on deliveries to ensure employment over a greater part of the year. It may also lead to a stronger taxation of endangered coastal cod populations. I believe that the proposals are contrary to the broad agreement on fisheries policy to maintain a differentiated fishing fleet. It is important to have a varied structure in the fleet, with both small vessels, preferably fishing coastally, and larger vessels, which can fish through larger parts of the year and beyond. The question of the duties of cod trawls is a demanding issue that is closely linked to a lot of political attention around it. Although most people agree that the obligations do not work as intended, it is difficult to agree on what is a better solution. In the Granavolden platform, the government shows that we want to clean up the unfortunate aspects of the obligation system, and the government is proposing to come back to the Storing in an appropriate way to follow up this point. I am pleased that the Economic and Social Committee recommends that the Stortinget reject the proposals of the representatives and join the Committee's advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1890	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1895	I just have a pretty simple question. The Minister for Fisheries pointed out – at the very least – that you should get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Then I just want to make sure that this is what you have said: you come back to the treatment of the obligation system in ours, along with the cancellation of the quota committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1902	That is absolutely the intention of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1907	The aim was for the trawlers to deliver when the coastal fleet was unable to deliver, to operate on land, to avoid permitting. So now you say that if you take back to the coastal fleet the fish that the coastal fleet has given will lead to chaos. I'll tell you that today's coastal fleet is at least as large as the jets you had when you phased in these systems, that is. that the large coastal fleet today can do exactly the same job as the trawls do and will do. How can the Council of State say that if you take off the trawls, you will not get fish on the shore with the coastal fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1915	It is such that the industry – both the industry and the fishing fleet – depends on a varied fleet. It is also an internal agreement in the fisheries industry with regard to the distribution between the trawler group and the conventional group in the fisheries sector. You fish in different seasons, and you need raw material to be able to produce. Take, for example: the cutting-fish industry, which has been developed here before. It's the largest picker of cod, just to be able to produce – they can take in HG quality, i.e. HG fish – throughout the year to create full-year jobs. I do not believe – obviously unlike the representative – that some jobs in fisheries are worth more than others. I believe that the person who works on a cod trawler is as much worth as the one who works on a coastal boat. What is important to me is to make sure to signal the following: in the Granavolden platform, it says that the distribution between fleet groups is fixed, and we stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1924	The question was: Will the coastal fleet be able to deliver fish to farms?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1929	The coastal fleet consists of a number of different groups of vessels of different sizes. Someone will be able to go out further, others can't. When we look at the deliveries from the cod trawls, the larger trawls: I have just said that they deliver to a large extent at times of the year other than that. the coastal fleet and the smallest group do. Therefore, it is important to keep the activity throughout the year. My clear answer to that part is – as I said instead – that the distribution between the vessel groups is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1936	Can the Council of State explain to Stortinget what he is experiencing is the main objective of Norwegian fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1941	There are probably different factors for different political parties. For the Progress Party and the government is creating values, providing jobs, ensuring that there is still light in the houses, providing good framework conditions, which in turn ensure that we can feed an ever-growing population around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1946	The answer was wrong. It says what is the main objective of fisheries policy in the Maritime Resource Act, and it surprises me that we have a Council of State responsible for fisheries that cannot. It says that the wild marine resources will contribute to the ‘employment and settlement of coastal communities’. That is the main objective, and it is also mentioned in the Act of Participation, which is a very important law for the Council of State. It is also mentioned in the fish salad law. It's all together the three most important laws here. It is perhaps here that we find the root of the problem in this debate, that we have a Minister for Fisheries who does not know what the objectives of the Norwegian fisheries policy are. The Council of State then says that the proposal is contrary to a varied fishing fleet. Then I will put the question back: is the compulsory system today in line with the main objective of the Norwegian fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1953	As far as fisheries policy is concerned, it constitutes something other than the Sea Resource Act, so that it is clear. It was the main objective of the fisheries policy that I responded to, at least trying to make a certain impression, which also includes the objectives of the coastal settlement and value creation that are part of the Marine Resource Act. We also have the law of participants, as part of this, and the law of fish sales. There are many laws that come into this setting. The question related to the obligations: No, I think there's a good deal to go on here, that it has to be cleaned up in some of the duties. I think we all see that – we have received feedback on it. But just to clear up a few obvious misunderstandings that have emerged in the debate – not from the representative Knag Fylkesnes, but from others – when it is claimed that the obligation is violated: in recent years there is no coverage related to breach of obligations. They've been fulfilled. The problem is, rather, that the obligation mechanism is not adapted to the current situation in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1960	It is clear that the compulsory system runs counter to the main objective of the Norwegian fisheries policy. When only 10 pst. delivered to your destination, there must be a problem. 27 pst. of the quantity taken by the mandatory trawlers — as the Council of State also pointed out in its statement, and it comes from its own investigations by the commission of duties — will be fished in the middle of the season. The whole point was that they weren't going to fish in the season, they were going to smooth out the seasonal variations. And when such a large quantity is delivered frozen, and half of the frozen quantity disappears out of the country, to China – as the largest recipient of frozen fish – the Council of State sees these problems when one has to make adjustments, that is, that it is not delivered there, that a fisherman in the middle of the season, that there is a problem that so much disappears out of the country, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1965	As I have mentioned in my figures for the trawl fleet, it is therefore mainly fished outside the main season – i.e. the first four months of the year – the most, most of all. In addition, the frozen fish delivered as HG to countries is not used by the Norwegian fishing industry. Rather on the contrary, the cutting fish industry buys very much HG fish, which they thaw up again, which they can use for longer periods of time to produce from when the market is asking for that fish. In the case of, inter alia: Cuttlefish, which I myself have been visiting the market for now, among other things. in South America, the main sale is there for Easter and for Christmas. Ergo, it is necessary to ensure that it is produced in such a way that it is possible to deliver in those areas where the need exists. And then I agree with the representative Knag Fylkesnes: Yes, here are things that need to be corrected in terms of duties. We have a way to go, and I will invite the Storting to join in a debate on when I submit a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1972	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1979	The overall objective of the fisheries policy is that the fishing fleet should have a structure which ensures coastal settlement, employment and the fishing industry on land, as well as predictability and good performance for fishermen. Parliamentary representative Rita Tveiten of the Workers' Party said here in 1999 from Stortinget's Chair: ‘The Committee will point out that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people, jointly. Therefore, there are basically no individuals or individual companies that can be granted eternal exclusive rights to harvest those resources free of charge, while others are excluded from fishing.» [[and serve]] This was quoted from a position taken by the Economic and Social Committee on the Law amending Law of 3 June 1983 No. 40 in the case of saltwater fishing, etc. It also states that the Committee believes that this should also be the basis for the future. This has been repeated so many times that a Advance Party Fisheries Council should be able to bring it with it. The biggest is the people's leading representatives. While the people are owned, the Storting and other delegated governing body are administrating the resources. The fishing resources represent a national asset to be managed by the country by annual allocation, based on overall objectives. Thus, the individual owner does not have a quota right even if he has a concession to operate a particular fish. Allowances are allocated normally for one year, but may, if necessary, be changed during the year, e.g.: of resource considerations. The current government acts as if the fishing resources are the national wealth of the country. I want to remind the Storting that it is the property of the people and not the state. The State has the right to manage fishing resources, but the current Council of State appears to have lost sight of the fact that they also have an obligation to manage the resources in order to promote the policy objectives set by fisheries law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e1999	I come from a municipality that has mandatory trawlers and landing facilities, and I would like to say a little about the practical consequences of the proposals that are available. This farm and these trawlers employ well over 100 local workers and fishermen and are an important recruitment area for the local fishing industry. This is a traditional enterprise that has great upsurge from the local population both in Stamsund and throughout the municipality of Vestvåg. It creates enormous values. Thus, SV's and Rødt's proposals remove the foundations of this company and these local workplaces. It is naive to believe that the coastal fleet should be able to deliver fish all year round to this facility in Lofoten. As is known, the cod in Lofoten are a few months in winter to spawn. That's when the coastal fleet in Lofoten takes its quota. For the rest of the year, the coastal fleet fishes completely different places and also supplies fish to completely different places, such as: in Finnmark. A differentiated fishing fleet is important for the settlement and reception structure along our coast. A varied and differentiated fishing fleet is also important for exploiting the fisheries of the different species. The Trolls, including the mandatory beams, are an important part of this fleet structure. They fish longer and on fish that the coastal fleet cannot catch. The Trolls are also important for maintaining sovereignty in distant waters. The consequence of SV's and Rødt's proposals is that local fishing sites on the trawls are removed, and that the sites in Stamsund and Melbu in Northernland, where I am from, are most likely to be closed down. So we want to exclude these production workers and fishermen from the livelihood. So the question is, how many billion will SV and Red pay the owners to buy out these jet revenues? It's money that could have been used to create well-being. As you know, we have a payment for the trading of allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2009	All parties agree that the obligations do not work as intended, but the solution of SV and Rødt is not to fix what does not work. They want to distribute billions to the owners who live south, but remove local jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2012	The proposal of the Centre Party, which has been raised here today, takes the clear opinion of the Stortinge in the greatest seriousness. We know the people's will on this question. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to enforce the obligation system to ensure that these trawls actually deliver fish to local communities in line with the intention of the duty system. The option would be, if not within two years, to return allowances from these companies to the coastal fleet.» The central party enters the setting in order for the government to review the SV proposal and return to Stortinget during the spring of 2019. We're doing this because it's urgent to create more activity in the fishing industry in North Norway. We therefore demand that the knife be placed on the throat – as we from North Norway say in clear language – of the shipping companies that have today been allocated quotas that were originally allocated to the coastal fleet: either the fish that the buyer is entitled to, i.e. fresh fish of good quality, otherwise the quotas will be transferred to the coastal fleet. As fish buyers say, there is a great shortage of raw materials, and buyer groups have to be rejected in the door when they humbly ask for quality fish from Norway. The answer the purchaser has to give is no, unfortunately they cannot get more fish. This I will ask the Storting to notice. This occurs during a period during which the frozen trawler put into auction remains unsold. Frozen fish for the production of fillet or salt fish in Norway are a totally unprofitable activity. If these large amounts of frozen fish had been landed fresh, it would have created billions of values on the coast. So in this situation, the Council of State chooses to sit with its hands in jail. I ask myself, with an expression from Magnus Lagbøte’s Law, whether the act of the Council of State is due to ‘the loss of will, the loss of ability or the loss of power’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2027	The representative Jonny Finstad drew up Melbu and Stamsund as examples of what would happen if the proposal was adopted. Either Jonny Finstad has not read the case, or he has not understood it. What we're talking about here is not reducing the activity obligation. In Stamsund and in Melbu, the obligation of activity is in turn. That's what makes it life there. The obligation to supply, the obligation to process and the rest of the system around is entirely unaffected by the SV proposal. There's no one in this room who's been in charge of the duty of activity, so the whole post from Jonny Finstad was the only big bomb. Then Jonny Finstad has the choice between either just sitting in the room and letting it go over with a little wrinkle in his face or going up to the pulpit, taking the word and saying: OK, let's stick to the proposal. This is perhaps a bit of the way the debate has turned around here: a little bit of a shrewd fisheries policy. There are many myths that have spun around, for example. that it's all the trawlers. We know we're wrong. It only applies to those within the obligation system, which is a little over half what the cod trawlers in Norway have – and that this will destroy all-year-old jobs. No, it'll actually make sure that more of the fish come to the coast in a form that industry wants. In addition, if one periodes beyond the country and beyond the year, the basis for full-year jobs is much larger. This is a sensible policy if the objective is an industrial policy and a fisheries policy for countries, and if the aim is to meet the main objective of the Norwegian fisheries policy, which is that the wild marine resources contribute to the employment and establishment of coastal communities. This is what the laws say, not just in one law, but in most of the laws that bind up fisheries policy in Norway today, which we should all be able to frame, and which is the starting point for everything we do in this room, but where the obligation system has gone far away from the intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2035	Our proposal is based – in very short terms – on what was the legal dissatisfaction that came into the report of the Duty Commission, that we liquidate the arrangement in a time horizon of 15-30 years. We propose a gradual shortening of this quantity, so that one gets to a conversion to the coast. There I would like, as I have indicated many times before, to make more stringent demands on when something can be fished in the year, so that you can get a periodicization and a spread of both income and value creation over the year and along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2038	It was a long debate. Fishing engages, and that's good. I think the debate today has been good and clarifying. I think it is good that the representative Pollestad has been so clear today – that the Central Party has a fisheries policy for public meetings, one for debates, one for visits to Finnmark and another policy for Stortinget. It's a little bit neat that you know the frames. As regards proposal No: 7, from the Center Party, we have a municipality, Hasvik Municipality, that sold itself free of obligations. They sold themselves out of the obligation system and have experienced a significant increase in raw material landed in the municipality. There they put the money in a fund that allows fishermen to buy quotas to start their own businesses. When you read proposal No. 7 from the Center Party, it says: ‘to ensure that these trawls actually deliver fish to the communities in line with the intention of the duty system’. Does this mean that Hasvik has to buy back the obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2052	Sustainable and socially viable management of the wild marine resources, and helping to secure employment and housing, stands – only in case the representative Knag Fylkesnes was unsure of me and was able to frame it. Sustainable and socio-economic – the socio-economic denominator of the representative is rare, and it is important to bear in mind that it comes to the top here, together with sustainable. It's important in this context. I had a couple of things I'd like to record. Firstly, it is mentioned by the representative of Geir Adelsten Iversen that the trawls were allocated quotas from the coast. It is a little difficult to say that they did, because the quota system occurred earlier for the trawls than it did for the coast. So the trawlers had quotas before there were quotas for the coast, and there was free fishing for the coast at that time. If the trawler's allowances were reduced on transition to the Finnmark model, the story story is a little strange. But I must be allowed to comment, after I have traveled around the country partly with Geir Adelsten Iversen: there is no single communication or double communication from the Center Party in these matters. They have one position for stability between fleet groups. They have one position now where they think they'll consider transferring to the coast. They have one position in which they will give the trawls two years of time to comply with what they are complying with today. They have one position that Geir Adelsten Iversen has put on the market around where we have been together and that he has not clarified that has not been the proposal of the Center Party, namely to transfer all fish from the trawls to the Shark fleet. That is what we have debated in many cases around. So I think there's at least reason to suggest that it would have been natural for the Center Party to decide for which of the four messages you really want. What is the problem with this message is that it works for everyone as if they support everyone. And you can't – you can't take fish from one and at the same time keep the same place. So I say that some of the things we've heard here, I think something's wrong. Among other things, even if the fish are not sold through the compulsory system, it usually ends up in the same factory that belongs to the compulsory system. This is, as I have said before, because one wants freedom to process fish in the most sustainable and socially profitable way, in line with the intentions of the marine resource law. Sometimes the company waits for the third round, instead of the first or second round, in order to cut the fish across – in chops, to grind – instead of along. That is probably the main problem of the scheme, namely the freedom to process as it is the most socio-economically profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2067	The representative Knag Fylkesnes commented on my post that I should be red – fortunately I am not red, I am blue – and he claimed that I probably have not read the matter or understood the proposal. So for sure, to assure me that the representative knows that I have read the proposal, I shall read it to him: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a case where cod trawl concessions are terminated with an obligation to provide, operate or process and where the associated cod and hake quotas are allocated to the coastal fleet.’ So, the representative Knag Fylkesnes: what have I misunderstood when I claimed that this means that SV will liquidate the cod trawl concessions and transfer them to the coastal fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2077	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2083	This is very exciting. I shall read the proposal to the representative. You can also find the ink on a table outside the hall. The correct proposals are there. I can also come down with it after my post, so that you can stretch below the most important parts of the proposal. In proposal No 2 states that ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case in which cod trawl concessions with an offer and processing obligation are terminated’. Not a word is mentioned as an activity obligation. Not a word is mentioned about Stamsund and Melbu. It's quite conscious, because it's an area – and facilities – where it actually works its way. The obligation commission also stressed in its review that of the obligations we have in the obligation system, the activity obligation is the one that works fairly. The representative of Finstad can relax completely, and I'll give him the suggestion, so he has it and can hit it in if he wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2090	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2106	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2115	The Committee has noted that mental health protection should be one of the main areas of the new national health and health plan for the representative’s proposal to stop bed building and increase daily mental health protection capacity. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health does not want to be called upon to stop the building of beds in mental health protection, despite the fact that one of the last 20 years has reduced bed capacity by about 2,500 places. An overall committee is concerned that the growth in mental health protection has been only 2 pst. in the period 2013-2017, against 10 pst. in the somatic field. This is not in line with government commitments to prioritize mental health protection — also known as the Golden Rule — at least as high as other health care. The Committee is aware of the extensive use of Corridor Asians by individual institutions. We think it is very serious that there is a significant number of violations of the rules relating to suicide in psychiatry, and expect this to be followed up by the government to ensure a better practice in the field. At the hearing, the Norwegian Nursing Association has also warned against further downgrading the daily capacity until good enough offers have been established in the municipalities. I shall now proceed to the Labour Party's view on the matter. When one looks at what committee comments we stand together politically, one would think that the warning lights also flashed at the government parties, but they do not. We agree that we have corridor Asians in psychiatry, we agree that suicide in psychiatry is a major challenge, we agree that the golden rule is not fulfilled in psychiatry. Nevertheless, the government parties do not support the opposition in a single measure in this case, and yet the Minister of Health says that he does not want any form of stop in the construction of bed places, not even until a new national health and hospital plan arrives. I am deeply concerned that we are providing good enough help to those who are struggling the most with their mental health. That is why the Workers' Party wanted to strengthen the local economy by 3.5 billion. SEK for 2019, and therefore the Workers' Party would strengthen the hospital economy by over SEK 1.6 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Around the country, as in the Inland and the More and Rome valleys, we now see cuts in specialist health services, not because they are no longer needed, but because you can't afford to maintain your day's operations. I'm afraid that leads to even more people not getting the help they need -- even more Corridor Asians, and even more people who don't get the hope back. The Labour Party promotes and supports three proposals in this matter. We ask the government to ensure that one does not further reduce the number of bed places in psychiatry until the Stortinget has dealt with a new national health and hospital plan, and we ask the government to ensure that the municipalities are better able to take the responsibility they have been given in the field of mental health protection. We also support the proposal of the Centre Party to put on hold all plans and decisions to weaken or shut down district psychiatric centres and paediatric and juvenile psychiatric outpatient clinics. Psychiatric health protection is about some of the most vulnerable in our society. We have to set them up now. On that basis, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is part of, and what we are alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2138	Then the representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has drawn up the proposals he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2143	I'm proud of what this government has done, both for rupees and psychiatric patients, but we agree that we're not in the goal. We have the goal of getting better, and I actually think the problem description that came from the Workers' Party is not in line with reality. The reduction in the number of bed places in mental health protection began as early as the 1970s and has continued to take place with a more recent understanding of mental disorders and with the development of new services in municipalities and specialist health services. A transition to more daily treatment is in line with WHO recommendations, and there is a trend that is broadly similar in all Western countries. It's not that the best thing for psychiatric patients is always to be hospitalized. Usually, it's best not to be intruded. As a rule, it is best to have a good offer around you that allows you to work in everyday life and not be put into an institution. Psychiatric health protection will be a major area of national health and hospital planning, and, as everyone knows, it will be presented during the year. Of course, the issues raised by the proposers will be part of this. Furthermore, the plan will also address the functioning of user involvement and quality of service provision. It is an important matter for us in the Right, namely user involvement and quality in the service offer, and not just counting the number of beds. The size of the population will give rise to a broad discussion on mental health protection in this context. We want to introduce packaging processes in the field of mental health protection, and it will create greater predictability and better coherence in the treatment processes of the individual patient. Then it is that the Right will continue the escalation in order to improve mental health protection in Norway. We will continue to give priority to mental health as one of our most important efforts. Here one cannot go beyond the fact that we have strengthened the prevention work. The best healthcare is prevention. In the school health service, we have a very rapid increase in both resources and the number of health care providers who are out in schools. In addition, we have put in place several psychologists in the municipalities, and in 2021 each municipality will have a municipal psychologist, and we have added a step-up to the state budget for that. Saying that we're not focusing on mental health is directly wrong. We bet, but our bet is more than counting the number of beds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2156	Psychiatric health protection is a very important area of health policy, and it has long been a professional and political goal to turn the supply from bed to ambulance activity, and from hospital to district psychiatric center. The centre party believes that this development has now gone too far – so far that the patient supply is being compromised. In the past, we have put forward proposals that we need to get a big message about the whole development of mental health protection, but were voted down. There is now much evidence that mental health protection is under pressure. It has poorer growth than somatic – despite the opposite in political goals. The golden rule, which would ensure greater growth in mental health protection than in somatic medicine, does not work. We have had a strong reduction in bed places in recent years while the need is increasing. We have many people who are sentenced to treatment in mental health protection. We have several older people with age psychiatric illness. We have several refugees who are traumatized, new Russians etc. We know that 30 pst. by those referred to in the field of mental health protection are rejected, according to figures provided by the Directorate of Health. There is also strong pressure on security psychiatry. So the situation is that there's a huge pressure on general psychiatry in Norway, and then one actually has to go in and do something. Processing capacity is too low. There's a lack of beds, so we get Corridor Asians. At Sandviken Hospital, there were 300 seriously mentally ill patients who were in the process in 2018. We can't have it like that. A lot of good work has been done to strengthen mental health protection in the municipalities, but we are concerned about the supply of those with severe mental illness, and therefore we suggest that we stop the construction of bed places and increase the capacity of mental health protection. We will also vote subsidiaryly for the Labour Party's proposal, No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We also propose to stop all plans to weaken or put down district psychiatric centres and/or paediatric and juvenile psychiatric outpatient clinics – that a new national health and hospital plan will be considered. With that, I take up the proposal from the Centre Party and SV in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2173	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2178	Not many months ago, the Council of State stood here and told us that he was not satisfied because his government had failed to comply with the so-called golden rule, that is, the promise that the growth in psychiatry would be higher than the growth in the somatic environment. From 2013, the growth has been only 2 pst., compared to 10 pst. in the somatic field. I would have preferred to stand here today and say that today we are voting to finally strengthen the offer to the psychiatrist. But that's not what we're voting on today, we're voting on whether we're not going to build down. Treatment of multiple outpatients is widely agreed upon. On the other hand, the rapid reduction in daily treatment and beds we see today is not a majority. Last week we debated in this Chamber on the reform of cooperation was worth an evaluation. The governmentmates thought it wasn't. I, on my side, am further convinced that we need it, because after the implementation of the interaction reform, the number of lucky days in the rush and psychiatry went down without a corresponding strengthening in the municipalities. It is not that the problem is solved by itself if we simply decide that the municipalities should take over the responsibility. It is clear that the municipalities must have an opportunity to actually implement what they are going to do. That's why we're facilitating this in SV through our alternative budget. There's a lot we should do for patients who are dependent on psychiatric services. I think, let's just start by not building it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2189	It belongs to the core of the ideological basis of the Left to give each human being the freedom to live good and meaningful lives. So we know, unfortunately, that for many, a poor mental health is in the way of such a good life. When we know the strong causal links between previous childhood dreams, mental health and drug problems, and when mental disorders shorten a human life with the most years of life of all diseases, we have to do something about how we both prevent and treat mental disorders. That's why I'm proud – and on behalf of the Left takes some of the credit for – much of what this government has created in this field. Prevention and early intervention is an area that has been given increased attention and has been given a historic commitment. We have a time-consuming commitment to drug prevention and treatment through the drug escalation plan and the drug reform. We've been delivering a mental health strategy, Master all our lives. This shall be followed up by an economically binding escalation plan for children and the mental health of young people. And yet those who are seriously ill, and who need help from the specialist health service, are going to get it. That is why I am concerned when the specialist health service is unable to deliver on our clear promises about the golden rule. I'm a bit embarrassed when the president of the Norwegian Psychologists' Association says that 'the golden rule has been a political bluff'. I don't like the idea that he might have a point. It is not a matter of political will. I have a bad feeling that health companies are not following political signals and mission documents. We can't have it that way. Therefore, I welcome the fact that mental health protection is an important area in the new national health and hospital plan, and I look forward to following the implementation of this plan with the argus eyes. There have been major changes in the knowledge of mental disorders, causes and best treatment of mental illness. So the number of beds has gone down for a long, long time and been part of a desired development. At the same time, we have to make sure that the help we offer outside the hospitals is better than before. Only then can a reduction in bed places be defended. For those who need healthcare in the field of mental health protection and their relatives, it is important to ensure that the supply is improved and improved. As long as the offer is good, it doesn't matter how this help is given. There are good reasons to believe that many will have an advantage in getting help where they live and live their lives. The goal is a coherent and coherent help. If we do that, we live by an important liberal principle, which I started with initially, that the freedom to choose a developing and meaningful life applies to everyone, regardless of the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2204	As the representatives refer to, there have been major changes in mental health protection over many years. The reduction in bed places and in the time patients were enrolled at 24-hour institutions began around 1970. This reduction has taken place in conjunction with a more recent understanding of mental disorders and the development of new services in municipalities and specialist health services. Developments are in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, and the trend is broadly similar in all Western countries. I agree that there may be some factors that can contribute to the increased need for daily treatment. The proposers show, among other things: to changes in criminal law. In this context, I would like to point out that regional health companies have been allocated 2 million. kr in 2019 to evaluate the impact of current legislative changes in the penal code. Representatives also refer to specific groups, such as prisoners with mental disorders and traumatised refugees. However, the overall need for daily places depends on a number of factors, not least whether we are able to establish good alternatives in collaboration between municipalities and specialist health services. Offers where people receive good treatment and follow-up and at the same time become residents in their familiar environment will be better than being placed in bed. Psychiatric health protection will be one of the main areas of the new National Health and Sickness Plan, which will be submitted to the harvest. The plan will address several of the issues raised by the proposers, including the variation in the rate of refusal in referrals to mental health protection, variations in service provision, the development of outpatient and outpatient services versus daily treatment, how to strengthen the DPS, interaction with municipalities and the priority rule, the golden rule. The plan will also address several issues related to user involvement and quality of service provision. This will give Stortinget a wide-ranging discussion of mental health protection. Finally, there is reason to stress that cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services is essential in order to provide patients with mental disorders with an overall and qualitatively good range of services. I am therefore pleased that the Health Directorate has now developed the first six package courses in mental health and drug abuse. Package trajectories shall contribute to the integrity and coherence of the services of these patient groups and not least to the predictability of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2224	The NRK investigated 200 suicide cases in psychiatry before Christmas and found that one had broken the law about every other time. Every other day, one of the patients who goes to psychiatry to get help take their own life. At the same time, over the last 20 years, we've built up nearly 2,500 beds in psychiatry. One example: Psychiatric clinic at Sandviken Hospital in Bergen was able to report in November last year that to date they had had 328 cases where serious psychiatric patients had to be hospitalized. Is the Council satisfied with such a situation, and is he sure that life is not lost in psychiatry because of a lack of capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2229	I have previously answered questions related to Sandviken Hospital in Bergen, and it is clear that the situation that has been there is not satisfied with me. I also have a clear view that this is something that the management of Health Bergen follows up to improve. Then, too, we have challenges associated with people committing suicide both while in treatment and right after treatment. A new monitoring tool is now in place to help a teacher identify more of the events in healthcare, to better identify these situations, to summarise this knowledge and to use it in the prevention of suicides in mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2236	I thank you for the answer, but I think the situation we've seen at Sandviken Hospital in Bergen may be an expression of the challenges you face just within the psychiatry. I think we all agree that if you can get good help in the municipalities, it is very good, but at the same time we feel that municipalities are calling out a warning, for example. now in Finland, where they say that they do not have the financial or professional competence to take over all the tasks that a specialist health service is now going to transfer to the municipalities. The Labour Party therefore believes that the municipalities need to be strengthened in order to solve this task, and has concrete proposals on this matter. The parties to the Government are against it. Does the Council of State think that this is already well solved, and in that case can he guarantee that not one patient will experience falling between two chairs – the chair of the specialist health service and the chair of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2241	We have strengthened the offer in the municipalities. This is something that we have done year after year, and therefore we now see a strong build-up of the healthcare provision in the municipalities, both in number of years of work, in competence and by expanding so that the acute daily places in the municipalities are also to include patients in the area of mental health and drug abuse. From next year, there will be a legal requirement that a person should have psychological competence in the municipalities, which the Workers' Party voted against and opposes to apply to the municipalities. We believe it is important that municipalities have competence and capacity in this area. But that does not mean that the specialist health service should withdraw. On the contrary, specialist health services should be more active in municipalities, together with those working in municipalities, especially those with the highest needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2246	The 2019 Health Care Professional’s mission document clearly states to healthcare professionals that they should give priority to mental health protection, and it is also clear that, in the field of mental health protection, some people should give priority to the DPS and the BUP – i.e. children’s and young people’s psychiatry. I've been traveling a lot, and it's frustration and lack of understanding among those who work outside, because they're actually experiencing the opposite. They feel that DPS is being laid down, they feel that the beds are gone, they feel that child and youth psychiatry is becoming weak, and that healthcare professionals are allowed to do this, without a political intervention. It's very frustrating and incomprehensible. So what does the Council of State have to say to those who are now working on the DPS and in childhood and youth psychiatry, when they see that they need to reduce capacity and supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2251	One shall not reduce the capacity and supply of mental health protection. It has to be a priority. I see that the results of 2018 show that health regions meet more than previously the requirements for prioritisation of mental health protection and drugs, although I am still not satisfied. Then one must not confuse making changes in the way the offer is made — for example: To a greater extent to establish interdisciplinary teams working in the municipality, to work more outpatiently, to work more out where children and young people are — describing it as the closure of offers, for example. if this means that one has fewer daily places. Rather, I try to follow up on the changes that are taking place in this area of services, and take the input that comes in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2258	It's so that many people out there see that the changes that are happening are not just professional arguments behind it. No one disagrees with the changes that the Council of State refers to, that we should try to get more outpatient activity and try to get less outpatient treatment if it is the best. But the concern is that this conversion has gone too far, and the other concern is that very much of what happens out there is because of economic priorities. Take Health More and Romesdal and the closure at Sea Hole: it comes now because of economics, not because one of us suddenly found out that we are working the wrong professionally. So if we're going to trust the system, why can't the government council and the government party support our proposal to put a stop to the conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2263	Some of these changes also allow for better use of resources, i.e. economics, but that does not mean that there are also good professional reasons behind it, either by ensuring greater professional environments, or by working in other ways. It can't be that it's not allowed to make changes if it's also reasonable economic, so it only makes sense if it's purely professionally justified and not economically justified. This is also about being able to offer patients the best possible offer. So this is an area where there's been big changes. It is an area that is also likely to undergo major changes in the future, and it is precisely one of the reasons why we have decided that mental health should be the main subject of the next health and health plan, so that the Storting through the Storing Communication will also have the opportunity to discuss and discuss what should be the direction in this area further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2270	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2277	It is good that there comes a plan where this gets a lot of attention, as it is warned. But there is also a need for money, and there is a big difference between us red-green – the working party in particular, which has 1,650 billion. kr – and what the government parties stand for. An overall committee believes it is important to take the discussion that the proposal for a representative is going on about whether the conversion and reduction of bed capacity in mental health has gone too far. 2 500 fewer places on a national basis in 20 years is a lot, searing about the bet on good deals where people live, with outpatient treatment is right. What we from the Workers' Party say is not in line with reality, said the representative of Stensland in his post. However, in this setting, a unanimous committee believes that what is fundamental here is that mental health protection has generally not been prioritised high enough. But then we have to do something about it, and then we have money – and there is no doubt that much of the closures are due to lack of money. So it's really easy to solve large parts of this case. So Stensland goes around the grate, the essence of what is our suggestion. The government is dropping when we come to what is happening in the practical everyday life, and will not help to ensure that important offers and important activity are maintained until good alternatives exist. Changes may be necessary, but they must not be irresponsible when the economy is under severe pressure. In this way, not least the Hospital Inland experience, there may be a twofold adverse situation when one cannot take the time to wait for the national health and hospital plan. From DPS Valdres, it is reported that decommissioning daily places in Valdres will give a domino effect to municipalities and outpatient clinics throughout the district. That is why we are promoting a proposal that the government should better enable the municipalities to take on their responsibilities in the field of mental health protection. In Finland, there is a great deal of concern about cutting the supply of paediatric psychiatry. The admission area of the Hospital Inland has probably decreased, but if it had received 81 million. kr more, as we propose in our alternative budget, it would quite certainly have given a different situation in this field as well. We now agree with the Center Party and SV on a proposal that we believe this should be put on hold until the Stortinget has dealt with a new national health and hospital plan. If the government does, it can provide funds in the revised national budget, so that it is easier to secure these very important offers for our vulnerable children and young people. Unfortunately, I have no faith that the government parties will give priority to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2295	In response to the proposal, the Council of State writes, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘However, the overall need for daily places will depend on a number of factors, not least whether we are able to establish good alternatives in the cooperation between municipal and specialist health services. Regional health enterprises have a legal responsibility to ensure that the population has access to the necessary specialist health services. [[RHF]] This also includes responsibility for planning and adapting the operation of services in line with changing needs and needs of users. It is assumed that the RHF provides sufficient 24-hour capacity at all times.’» That is exactly what is not happening in Valdres and in the North Gudbrand valley and several other places in the country. In a depressed economic situation, it is the decentralised offers – and I mean the really decentralised offers – that are being threatened, without any other alternatives being put in place. Patients who have used user-controlled space are getting sicker before they are given 24 hours. There is increasing pressure in even fewer treatment sites, and the consequences are becoming daily places far from the municipalities of residence. The patients involved often have little networks, and it will be far too much for family and friends to visit the patient. The patient loses a known treatment site, which has provided increased safety. The lack of psychologists in the municipalities is great. We can't avoid all the insertions even if outpatient services are in place. Local authorities are not rigged with increased resources for greater responsibilities and more tasks. Important professionals feel insecure about the job and apply for other jobs. Important competences both for patients and for districts may be lost. It's hard to replace. It has been a policy objective to turn the supply from hospital to district psychiatric centres, underpinning the need to strengthen the DPS. Now we see the opposite in many health companies. DPS in Valdres and in Ottawa is planned to be closed by the Inland Hospital, as well as reducing bed places in paediatric outpatient psychiatric clinics. It is important that more outreach teams and bets on good outreach services, and that cooperation with community health services be strengthened. However, this professional development should not be at the expense of daily capacity, which is important for providing the most vulnerable and sickest patients in mental health protection with a good and sound range of services. This is precisely why the daily services of DPS in Valdres and Otta address concerns in their departments. The rotation from daytime treatment to increased outpatient treatment has been correct, while at the same time worrying about the further process. Decommissioning daily places will give a domino effect to municipalities and outpatient clinics throughout the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2311	The installation at Höjres Sveinung Stensland clearly revealed the differences between the views of the Workers' Party and the Government on this matter. Stensland indicated that the reduction in the number of bed places began in the 1970s. Yes, that is quite correct, and there has been a lot of good grip on this matter. But that doesn't mean it's just to keep going without thinking about it at some point. Yes, day care is great. It also supports the Working Party below. For many, it's best not to be intruded. I can also agree with Stensland on that. But the prerequisite – the most important thing – is that you actually get the help you need, and now we experience that many of those who do not have access to diurnal treatment do not get the very best help anymore. Then it's time to ask some questions. The government shall introduce package trajectories in the field of mental health protection. Package history is often the answer to most health issues when asked by the government. To put it this way: the working party is too many of the package processes that have now been introduced, but it assumes that it accompanies resources. When I have a visit from both users and professionals in my office who say that they would like to do this, but that they do not have the resources to put in place longitudinal coordinators and get the interaction between the specialist health service and the municipality to work well enough, a package will be quick without the content that you expect to follow in a package. When there is now a reduction in daily places, the Workers' Party would not have reacted if it had been because it was professionally justified. But what we see is that it's the economy that largely pushes forward some of these cuts. The working party does not add the list higher in this case than we simply ask the government to help us press the break button. When we see that professionals who have previously fully agreed on the reduction of bed places in order to build day care, say that it is now time to take a break, we listen – the government obviously does not. When people are rejected when they contact psychiatry, and when people may be written out too quickly again, it's not a good treatment for the individual, and I don't think it's good for society in the long term if you can't give people proper treatment when they first seek help. Then you quickly walk again and again. From 6,200 to 3,700 places in the last 20 years – that should give us some reason to think about: is it right now to take a break, or are we going to see if we can find other solutions? I think Carl-Erik Grimstad from the government party Left summed it up well. He said something like that he was a little disappointed that you had not provided mental health protection as you wanted. It would be a powerful signal if the government now helped to push the pause button, which can make sure that people who need it get the best help.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2328	I need to make a comment about what is being argued about this matter. It's a subject, it's that this is a desired professional development, that patients don't necessarily have the best of being treated while they're present, that it's better to get help and treatment out where the patient lives, and that one doesn't have to be admitted. That's what you've been arguing about for 20 years. Our point is: shall this continue all the way until there is no bed left? Because that is what is the birth of the Council of State and the Government Party – this development that we have seen, should only continue. No one from the government party says that no, we don't vote for the proposal, but we have to have a certain number of beds in Norwegian psychiatry because there will always be serious mentally ill people who actually have as much right on a bed in a hospital as those who have a somatic illness. No one suggests that there should be a minimum daily capacity. When one has had a halve – from 2011 to 2014 it was 10 pst. reduction – is the answer that we should continue to reduce daily capacity. That is what the Council of State is saying, that is what the government party is saying. When we hear what they say to us in psychiatry themselves, they're very concerned about the capacity of general psychiatry. It's about security psychiatry, it's about mental illness in prison. The civilombudsman has pointed this out in his annual report now, that it is highly critical how mentally ill people in prison are treated, and part of the reason why general psychiatry is so explosive. We can wait for a big message about a national health and hospital plan where mental health protection is an important issue, but the government party has voted down a proposal to get a big message without me understanding the basis for it. That would really be a need. And when we hear the debate here today, we know what is going on in the National Health and Sickness Plan when it comes to psychiatry – one is going to have a further reduction in bed capacity, and what is happening in healthcare professionals now, where one builds up both child and youth psychiatry with daily capacity and shuts down DPS, is also likely to continue. At least we haven't got any other signal here today. So this is going to be everyday in the future as well, and it's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2337	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2353	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five rows of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2362	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank you for the many consultation recordings that have been received from both the bodies and individuals in connection with this proposal for a representative. Exclusive breast-feeding for about six months is recommended by most official bodies. The Committee endorses the assessment of these bodies and points out that the World Health Organisation is raising breast-feeding as one of the few cost-effective measures to reduce the risk of non-infectious diseases. There is a large proportion of infants in Norway who are breast-feeding, and Norway has a high incidence of breast-feeding compared to many other western countries. Nevertheless, many women in Norway are breast-feeding considerably shorter than recommended by the Health Directorate. The Committee therefore wishes to further focus on promoting breast feeding in all parts of the population. This applies in particular to women with a low socio-economic background, where it has been shown that several stop breast-feeding early. Since we know that breast feeding can reduce the social differences in health, we will focus in particular on it. At present, there are no up-to-date figures for breast-feeding in Norway. In the autumn of 2018 and spring 2019, a new Food Survey will be carried out. Its results are expected to be available in spring 2020 and will provide us with an insight into how the breast-feeding population in Norway is developing. As an SV representative, among the many important measures, I would like to highlight three issues that are particularly important to us. The first is that the guidelines on maternity care should be made a reality for all women and children. We must ensure that bedtime does not go down in planning new hospitals, and we must ensure that this is adapted to the individual needs of women. In the maternity care clinic, there are considerable differences in the supply of birth mates. It also appears that maternity is the time of hospitalization with which newly-baked mothers are least satisfied. The other thing I want to mention is that the earthquake cult in the municipalities is too bad. The Quality and Patient Safety Notice, to be addressed here later today, shows that there are large transfers from hospitals to municipalities. Numbers from the Earth Mother's League, which we, from the opposition, have shown to several times from this pulpit, show that only half of the country's municipalities have employed their own midwife. I'm concerned that women's access to the follow-up of midwifery in pregnancy and in maternity is not real many places in the country. I now see that my time is running out, so I get to take the word again later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2379	Will the representative Sheida Sangtarash address the proposals of the Centre Party and SV on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2384	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2389	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2394	The working party supports the proposers in that provision is needed to increase the proportion of children who are breast-feeding and are breast-feeding. To do just that, we are dependent on good maternity care in the hospitals, but also in the municipalities after mother and children have come home. The positive health effect of breast feeding is well documented. The Health Directorate states that breast-feeding is one of the most effective measures to promote health and prevent disease in both mother and child. It has even been shown that breast-feeding can help reduce social differences in health. At the same time, we know that not everyone wants to breast-feed, and it's important that those who want to bottle feed also meet a health service that doesn't stigmatize and that has good competence. Good parental leave schemes are important in order to make breast-feeding practical. The working party has in government formed the basis for today's parental leave with high wage compensation and the length of parental leave. Birth and the beginning of life are a big event, but also a vulnerable situation for many. Women must experience a good and safe offer after birth, and it is clear that premature departure from hospitals after birth may have consequences for breast-feeding. The Labour Party believes that exit from the maternity wards should always be adapted to the needs of the family, and this must be done in dialogue with women. Today, 60,000 pregnant women and midwives have to share 424 community land mothers each year. Obstetrics alone require 700 new midwives — in addition, they require their maternity care. The current guidelines on maternity care must be made a reality for all women and children. In this case, a number of proposals have been put forward which have the same intentions as it was in a case dealt with by the Stortingen a little less than a year ago. It was a proposal for a representative of eight measures to ensure safe maternity care. In that case, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party were given a majority for a number of proposals that were important in order to avoid cutbacks in bedtime, for the implementation of national professional guidelines for maternity care and for strengthening the midwifery service in the municipalities. The Labour Party assumes that the Government will follow up these decisions and will not vote in favour of today's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2409	The intent of this proposal is very good. Mother's milk is perfectly adapted to a small human child, and breast-feeding is very positive for a healthy development. A good start is the basis for successful breast-feeding, and not least a pleasant experience, both for mother and for children. Some mothers start breast-feeding well before they go home from the hospital, but for others it may take longer. In the hospital, a woman is to be counseled and counseled for proper breast-feeding techniques. The time of discharge from the hospital after birth shall always be appropriate to the needs of the woman and the newborn, and a decision shall be taken on this in consultation with the woman. The national guideline does not set a limit on the length of maternity care as a specialist service, but shall contribute to the provision of post-secondary care services to women who are in need of specialist health care. They may also contact the hospital if a problem arises afterwards. Both midwives and health care providers are important professionals in the community health service when it comes to breast-feeding. As of 2013, the number of midwiferies has an additional 46.2 pst. From 1 January 2018, inter alia: midwife and health care professionals have become part of the core competence of all municipalities. In addition, the health and school services have been significantly strengthened from 2014 until today. It is important that healthcare professionals adhere to the guidelines for maternity care. A good start is the basis for successful breast feeding, and the guidelines underline this. It is encouraged that women who wish to breast-feed are either in the maternity ward until breast-feeding has started well and works satisfactorily, or that women are adequately assisted in home visits and consultation at a health centre. The eating situation of a baby should be characterized by closeness, calmness and contact. The fact that you are sure to have available health professionals who have this knowledge is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2422	Mother's milk is good. There's no doubt about it. It is practical, and it provides good nourishment to the newborn child. But we must not forget that breast feeding is not suitable for everyone. Many women can't or won't breast-feed, and that must be okay. These women feel that there is too much breast-feeding already, and it must actually remember when they want national targets for how many to breast-feed. The propulsion party believes that it should be up to each and every one to find out whether they want to breast-feed or not. When the Center Party proposes to set the target at 75 pst. of infants in Norway to have breast milk by 2024, we in the Progress Party simply do not agree that more mothers should be forced to breast-feed. The Health Directorate has here pointed out that breast milk is the best food for infants if their baby and mother are happy with it. That is exactly what is the starting point of the Advance Party: if children and mothers are comfortable with it. Today there is an enormous breast-feeding pressure in society. From the first time pregnant people contact the health centre, there is breast-feeding in brochures, on posters on the wall and conversations about breast-feeding. In hospitals, there is a separate nursing room with its own breast-feeding films that spin continuously, and the hospital staff are partly obese to make women breast-feeding after birth. Women who cannot or do not want to breast-feed must feel that it is okay. The centre party also suggests in this case that the government should increase the hospital's bedtime. The progress party cannot understand that it is an independent goal to oblige women to stay longer in hospitals. I know a lot of women who want to go home early from the hospital, like those who are multiple birthers, who want to go home to the family and just want to be with their family. It has to be okay. Therefore, the Progress Party does not support the proposal to oblige women to stay in hospitals any longer, if they do not want to do so themselves. The time of hospital discharge after birth must be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child. The last proposal I would like to comment on is the proposal of the Central Party that the health care provider should have the formal responsibility for maternity care for up to five days after birth. It is today that all women who are pregnant can contact hospitals if problems arise after they have been discharged. Municipalities and health enterprises are currently required to conclude binding cooperation agreements. So this is taken care of. However, for many women, contacting a health centre may be of greater value in some cases. The health centre offers an important offer in the follow-up of women. The government has strengthened the offer. Here too, women must be allowed to choose even if they want to follow-up at the hospital or at the health centre. The Progress Party does not support the starting point of the Centre Party in this case. We believe that women must be allowed to decide whether or not they want to breastfeed, whether or not they want to leave their previous home from the hospital after birth, and whether or not they want to follow up from a hospital or a health centre in the days after birth. Women must simply be allowed to decide for themselves. The party of progress is a party of freedom of choice, while the centre party obviously wants more detailed management of the women of maternity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2437	It will be a little special to have posts after the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had posts here. It's okay to chat about a proposal, but one must not talk falsely. We do not suggest that women be obliged to be in a maternity ward. If you read the proposal, you see that we should give women the opportunity to be in maternity ward. I would like to point out that there are limits to what one says here from the pulpit. We want one to give maternity wives the opportunity to be in maternity care until breast-feeding is started, if a woman needs it. It's not like that today. It will always be so that there is woman who decides. It also applies to breast-feeding. But there are many today who are not getting enough help for nursing in the hospital, because the crew is so scarce, and the lay time is so short. A short period of time led to the need for help in the municipalities. It's well documented that there are very many midwives missing. For example, breast-feeding help had a huge increase because there are many women – although perhaps the Progress Party does not believe it – who want to breast-feed, but who do not get the help they need when they need it. This proposal is important to Difor. I notice that it has our women in the pulpit here, but this is about infant feeding. It's equally important for everyone -- it's not a woman's issue. We have to make sure that Norwegian infants can get the best baby nutrition and what is professionally recommended, in the same way that we want to make sure that children and young people get what is the recommended diet, and that adults also see that diet is important. Well, when it comes to babies, it's nothing more important than to make it happen, so that more people can follow it. When it comes to the goal, it is normal for all dietary objectives to be in line with national professional recommendations. Here the government has set a lower target. That's what we think is special. On this basis, I propose the proposal of the Centre Party. We would have wished that there were several people who had the voice for this, but that is not the case. But proposal No. 1 is the most important thing in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2450	The representative, Kjersti Tope, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2456	At least I can satisfy the representative Toppe's wish that a man also take part in the debate. It is important that mothers get the help and support they need to breast-feed. Although many infants in Norway are breast-feeding, even when compared to other countries, we naturally want more to follow the Health Directorate's advice on breast-feeding when they want it. Therefore, the national action plan on better diets aims to increase the proportion of breast-fed children during the 2017–2021 plan period. More than 90 pst. by Norwegian children are born in Mother-children-friendly hospitals. Almost all mothers and children follow the health centre programme and receive advice and guidance on breast-feeding at the health centre. About half are followed up by health centres approved as an ambulatory health centre. The fact that several municipalities have health stations with such an authorisation is being sought. I would also like to commend the nursing aid's contribution to the work on breast-feeding. A mid-term review of the Food Action Plan shall be carried out in 2019. It will provide a clue as to whether there is a need to adjust the work done in this area. We're getting new figures about the breast-feeding body in 2020, which means something about the direction of development. When the action plan period is over and work is evaluated, we should in any case set new targets. There has been a lot of attention about bedtime after birth. It has been stable for the past five years. The national occupational guidelines for maternity care indicate that post-natal time spent in hospital is to be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child and shall be decided in consultation with the woman. The time of repatriation shall be assessed on a broad basis, inter alia: based on breast-feeding and nutrition. I have commissioned health regions to report on how the guideline has been implemented. The guidelines set no limit on the duration of maternity care as the responsibility of the specialist healthcare service. Barsel women with a need for specialist health care after they have been outsourced should be offered it. It is therefore not appropriate to set a fixed ceiling on the duration of the responsibility of the specialist health service for maternity care. I agree with the intention of promoting and protecting breast-feeding. I also agree that there is a need for more midwives in the municipalities. That's why we're building up the midwife service. In 2018 we reintroduced the law requirement on midwifery competence in the municipalities, which was removed by the previous government. Over the years, we have strengthened health and school health services, including midwife competence. In 2019, we've earmarked $40 million. kr of the subsidy to the health care and school health service for midwifery competence in the municipalities. From 2013 to 2017, the number of midwifery works increased by 46,2 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2478	We get clear feedback from, among others. The midwives' Association that there is a strong pressure on maternity wards, because in a depressed situation, midwives have to give birth priority, and that goes beyond the provision of maternity. One also talks a lot about shorter bedtime, and there is a lack of follow-up from a midwife when one comes home. At least this isn't beneficial for breast-feeding, and we know it goes beyond breast-feeding because women don't get help when they need it. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see this context, and does he think that a person must take political action to ensure a better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2485	Safety, predictability and good follow-up are important in such a situation, but it is not right that the bedtime should decrease. It has remained stable for about 2.8 days in the last five years, and the time of onset is 3.2 days. I am very pleased that we have received a very strong strengthening of the midwife services in the municipalities – an annual work force of over 40 p.m. When you see it in relation to the number of births, there were 47.3 midwiferies per 10,000 born when I took over as Minister of Health. Today there are 72.1 midwifery per 10,000 born. There is no doubt that there has been a rather strong build-up of this offer in the municipalities in the last five years. I think that is right, and it is important to strengthen further, and that is why we have to earmark funds for this strengthening in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2490	When it comes to midwifery settings in municipalities, there is something you have wanted for a long time. When there is a need for 600-700 annual works to meet today’s national guidelines, I will ask how many midwives are needed to meet the requirements of midwives. I believe that there is a strong commitment, but based on the need that is out there, I do not believe that that commitment is so strong. It may be a big percentage bet, but it can also tell you how bad it is initially. What time will a few 600-700 years' worth of midwives in the municipalities have with this effort, and does the Council have a plan for how to achieve this faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2497	There were 278.8 midwifery in the municipalities, in the health and school health service, when I took over as Minister of Health. It was 408.1 annual works in 2017. Probably there has been a further increase in 2018, and we have earmarked 40 million. kr to this in 2019. At the same time, the number of births decreases. This means that, while there has been a rather sharp increase in the number of annual work, the number of pregnant women following each year’s work has fallen beyond the annual growth rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2502	The third and last thing I wanted to point out, and for which I did not have time, was about mothers who, for various reasons, have to bottle up, and who are asking for more information and competence from health professionals. I agree that they must be told that it is okay, but that is not good enough. Women want professional guidance on how to make the food situation good and safe. I wonder what the government has done so far, what the Council of State will do to increase this competence of health professionals, and what the result will be for women in pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2509	It happens by strengthening the follow-up that a sheep does. As I was in my post, it is now that 90 pst. by Norwegian children are born in a mother-child-friendly hospital ward and half are followed up by health centres approved as an ambulatory health centre. So there's a continuous improvement in knowledge in this area that also reaches several of the pregnant and newly-baked mothers. That's the way you have to work. I also think that breast-feeding is doing a very good job of working across borders to increase competence in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2520	I agree with the state council on breast-feeding, but I did not fully appreciate what concrete measures the government has taken so far, and what the government will do. Can the Council of State point out any action?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2525	Our goal is to strengthen our ministry. That's what we've done, and that's what we're doing now. What matters to the pregnant and the newly-baked mothers is that they meet a competent service in this area. Therefore, it is also important for us to legislate on the competence of midwives in municipalities. Even though the previous government removed it, we have reintroduced it and also strengthened the construction of the service in this area. There are people who meet the woman, who have time, who are crucial to getting that information and knowledge you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2547	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2556	Tuva Moflag is the rapporteur on this matter, but I shall keep her comments here. This year’s Communication points to the same challenges as previous quality and patient safety messages. Challenges related to coal, diabetes, sepsis and the vaccination programme are known from the past. Patient and user representatives have experienced a level-playing field in recent years and report a great deal of lack of knowledge in the handling of complaints by the services, unfortunately. Lack of information or poor information is widespread in many of the cases. The knowledge and competence of staff on processing and rights needs to be strengthened, and there is a need for better information on patient and family complaints. The notification shows that the fixed medical device needs to be modernised, and patients’ representatives point out that many of the requests are about lack of availability. The Committee points out that the health surveillance of the State has carried out surveillance of the identification and treatment of sepsis by the acute recipients during the period 2016-2018, and takes a serious view of the failure and deficiencies of all the health establishments investigated. We will stress the importance of continuing close follow-up and knowledge raising on septicaemia in healthcare. The Committee points out that there are still many unoccupied posts in the food departments and that there is a need for clearer clarifications in the responsibility between midwife and doctor in order to meet the requirements of the guide on ‘A safe supply of food’. Quality requirements for maternity care’. The Committee points out that the quality indicators related to the cycle of cancer packages have been achieved at the overall level, but there are variations across enterprise levels. The package pathways for the cancers cervical cancer, primary liver cancer, thyroid cancer, pancreatic cancer and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia do not meet the targets. The Committee recognises that good governance, competence and clear procedures are essential for the quality and safety of healthcare. The notification identifies risk areas that municipalities, health businesses and private service providers are expected to use as a knowledge base in planning, exercising, evaluating and correcting health and care services. Once failures and injuries have occurred, they must be used for learning to reduce the risk of similar errors in the future. This is the fifth EEAS report on quality and patient safety. It provides an overview of areas where we have challenges and need to improve, and therefore it does not give an overall picture of the quality of healthcare. In 2010, the red-green government launched a screening of patient injuries in Norwegian hospitals. Then got about 16 pst. by Norwegian healthcare providers at least one injury resulting from the treatment they received or from a lack of treatment. In 2011, we launched the patient safety campaign to teach health professionals how to improve the safety of services. What is now called the Patient Safety Programme has produced results. In 2016, the figure was reduced to 14 pst. But the number hasn't gone down yet. The target of 25 pst. reductions from 2012 to 2018 have not been reached. Work on quality and patient safety and prevention of adverse health-related incidents has unfortunately failed. International surveys suggest that half of the unfortunate events could have been avoided. We had a few weeks ago a debate in the Chamber on the notification system in the Special Health Services Act, which the government scrapes in favour of a disaster commission. We have had that debate, but it showed that the government is on the wrong path in patient safety work – more emphasis on guilt and what has happened, less emphasis on the learning system in the service. It's been over six years since the last time we had a big message that looked comprehensive on quality and patient safety. «Good quality – safe services» presented the policy of the red-green government to improve quality and patient safety. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, proposes that the Government present a new overall report on quality and patient safety in healthcare services, with concrete objectives and measures followed by annual notifications. I will address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2581	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2586	It's interesting to criticise that we're on the wrong path. To that it is to state that it is just now that we have started getting these messages. This is the fifth report on quality and patient safety, which provides the basis for just such a debate. The fact that we ourselves provide this data shows that we are willing to learn both from error and to make sure that it does not happen wrong. Of course, it is an impossible task to avoid all health care errors, but if one does not measure, if one does not succeed, there is no way in this work. The first four communications to the European Council on quality and patient safety stressed that the main areas of action for better quality and safe services were the development of patient health care, improvement of systems, management and culture in services and the reduction of unjustified variation. It is continued in this message, and at the same time the work of correcting the findings from the past continues. Lack of knowledge of quality and patient safety has been a challenge for a number of years. As I said, we have done something about this, and now we have a lot of data and increased knowledge of quality and patient safety. The challenge is to use this knowledge to improve services. The regulation on management and quality improvement in healthcare provides the basis for quality management and systems to do so. If we look at the numbers, the patient and user representatives have had an increasing number of cases in recent years. In 2017, they had 15,200 enquiries. It is distributed among specialist health services, municipal health services and other enquiries. As the audience knows, we now have a change in the law that also looks at the role of the patient representative. Lack of information or poor information is widespread in many of the cases. Better communication with patients and between healthcare actors is therefore necessary. The development of the patient’s digital health service must be a priority for the government in the future. Norwegian patient compensation has 3 pst. increase in the number of cases notified in 2017 compared to 2016 and has a total of 5,821 cases. The proportion of attendance on 29 p.m. is slightly lower than in previous years. Failure of treatment and delayed or incorrect diagnosis provide the greatest basis for compliance with the complaints. The health situation in Norway is good. There are high life expectancy and low mortality after heart attack and stroke. We also have good five-year survival after cancer, and now, in fact, the largest group of cancer patients are cancer survivors. The communication on quality and patient safety provides an overview of areas where we have challenges and need to improve. The message doesn't give a complete picture of the quality of healthcare, but what it shows is that we're not afraid of the facts, we're not afraid to get the status on the table, and we're not afraid to take the debate on what we have to do to get on with it. Then I want to raise two concerns that I think are particularly important. One is elevated mortality in mental health. It's a challenge we're never going to finish talking about. We're going to have to talk about more beds is the solution, but we're probably done for today. The second is the increase in benzodiazepine use among the elderly. If one looks at the OECD report ‘Health at a Glance’, one sees that Norway is in the best third, i.e. among the best in the world, on twelve indicators. We're in the middle of five, and then we're at the bottom of six indicators, some of which I just mentioned. These are things we have to take seriously. But if we're not willing to measure, if we're not willing to learn from our mistakes, we won't move on. It is therefore strange that the Workers' Party maintains the criticism of the Committee of Inquiry, which I am pleased that we have put in place. Because it's going to be a place where you're not out to punish, where you're not out to take papers from people who've done wrong, but just where you'll see what's gone wrong, and learn, so that we don't make the same mistakes again, in the same way as in the transport sector. That is our reason for setting up the State Investigation Commission on Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2609	Work on quality and patient safety in health services is both about resources and about rental. The day-to-day quality work in the healthcare service is primarily a responsibility of the manager, and then it is worrying that the National Audit Board’s control of the management of state companies in 2017, Document 3:2 for 2018–2019, demonstrated that the management of healthcare professionals does not have a good enough follow-up of quality and patient safety. This should be a at least as important part of governance as financial management. It is unacceptable, then, that governance is not systematically working on measures to improve patient safety. When we know that the top management in healthcare professionals is working too badly to follow up quality and patient safety, it is incomprehensible that the government will remove one of the most important tools we have to acquire and share knowledge about patient safety, namely the notification system for specialist services. This has been a non-punitive channel for sharing unwanted events and near-events with the aim that those who work in the healthcare system can learn from the failures they themselves and others have done. The fact that health professionals have used the scheme actively to improve quality and patient safety is an argument for expanding and strengthening the scheme, not abolishing it. Quality and patient safety work is also about resources and, therefore, cannot be seen isolated from the general resource challenges and the pressure they experience in the service. In 2018, for the first time, the ForBettering National Survey was carried out to identify the work environment and patient safety culture. In that study, it appears that the working conditions of those adding are the area of greatest dissatisfaction. 40 pst. There is no doubt that there is a good safety climate at work, and the Medical Association calls for concrete action by the government on what they will do to follow up the relationship between the working environment, culture and patient safety. We know that, for example, In the case of hospitalisation, there is a clear correlation with an increased risk of adverse events, but no consideration is given. Although the health services in Norway scorar well on most indicators in comparison with other countries, the OECD report for 2017 shows that patient experience, especially in the general medical services, is one of the worst points. We are less happy than patients in other countries, especially with how much time the doctor spends on patients. There is no reason why we in Norway should be worse at this point than other countries – we should have been better. There is a worrying sign of the pressure exerted on the fixed medical system over the last few years, when the decision is given more and more tasks without new resources. We have long called for measures to improve on this part. So we know that closer to 14 pst. all somatic entries are linked to some form of damage. This part has been pretty stable since 2012, where one had a target of reducing patient injury by 25 pst. – we put that in the big message that the red-green government has made. This message also had suggestions for setting up a selection, a NOU – first and foremost the Arianson selection. What is disappointing is that this NOU has not been followed up in a holistic way from today's government, and that one has gone across several of the recommendations in the report. It is a political responsibility to provide health services to leaders and to provide them with the best possible means of providing high-quality, safe and secure services. We mean it now is time for a new big message where we get goals and meaning with the annual reports, because they actually don't work as intended. Now I guess the proposal is taken up, so it's taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2624	An annual Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard provides a good overview of the status and challenges of healthcare. That's why we're sending out a message like this for the fifth time. In this way, all levels of healthcare and the selected levels can be provided with information as a basis for improvement work. This responds to my idea of transparency and sharing of knowledge and information, which will stimulate quality improvement locally and to management awareness at all levels. The aim is to increase patient safety and offer the patient the best possible range. We have a good health and care service in Norway. Many people show that they are satisfied with the quality of the offer. More patients are getting treatment faster and better results than before. At the same time, this Communication points to several areas where we have challenges. Some errors and deficiencies are repeated, and for some patient groups there are still too many differences in treatment provision. Quality improvement and patient safety are continuous work, and failure may take time to correct. That is why we must continue to put the search light in areas where it fails. An overall committee expects feedback to provide a basis for government priorities and priorities. The government has high ambitions and is working systematically to increase the quality of healthcare. I believe that the Committee's expectations are a clear expression of the fact that an overall committee also has high ambitions in this area, and I am pleased about that. This Communication identifies risk areas that municipalities, health businesses and private service providers need to use in their planning, exercise, evaluation and correction of health and care services. The notification shows the importance of looking at the variation in performance of national quality indicators. Here also gives the health atlas valuable knowledge that needs to be used in the improvement work. Management and quality improvement regulations have provided health and care services with a basic tool for systematic quality improvement. The Government has established the State Investigation Commission on Health and Welfare Services for the Follow-up of Serious Occurrence. The alert system for the State Health Authority has been extended to include the municipal health and care services and private actors. With this, we have implemented measures that apply to the entire healthcare system. Patient safety work is continued with unreduced strength, including: through a new national action plan on patient safety and quality improvement. We need to look more closely at the work environment and patient safety culture in the context. Therefore, a monitoring of the work environment and patient safety culture was carried out for the first time in 2018. In the talks I asked for the follow-up to the National Audit Office's report on shortcomings in the follow-up of quality and patient safety of the boards of regional health companies. I have expectations that these measures will contribute to increased attention, follow-up and patient safety. The government has implemented a number of measures to promote quality and patient safety. The concrete challenges identified in the annual notification are specifically addressed through submitted and planned key messages, action plans and strategies. In order to improve the quality of services provided to older people and to create a more age-friendly society, the quality reform for older people — life-long — has been presented and adopted by the Stortinget. So we're going to follow that up. In 2019, we presented a new national health and hospital plan. The main themes will be interaction, technology, competence and mental health protection. The measures in the plan will have an impact on quality and patient safety. The government also presents a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people, addressing several of the challenges mentioned in the Communication. Creating the patient’s healthcare is about good quality and patient safety. Action at system level is required, but it is also about culture and management. An annual report on quality and patient safety cannot go into depth in individual areas, but it must be used with other sources of planning, implementation, evaluation and correction of healthcare services, so that we ensure equal access for all patients to good and safe health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2652	I am concerned that we need to be more alert to the way in which the security environment is at work in order to be able to achieve openness and improvement when it is flawed and missing. I found the investigation that came, which showed that 40 pst. I thought that there was not a good safety climate at work, is a very serious feedback to us, because I don't think we're reaching the goal of reducing patient injury and improving patient safety work if we don't take action and look at this. The Medical Association calls for concrete measures from the government in this field, and I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State and the Government come up with concrete measures to improve the culture of safety in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2659	Yes — and the ForImproving study is itself part of the concrete actions. I commissioned health regions to carry out an overall study of patient safety, culture and the working environment and health, environment and safety for employees. This mission would be carried out in cooperation with the trustees, and the study has been carried out. I have requested that it be followed up with concrete actions in the various health businesses and regions – that one in cooperation with the trusted jobs with the results of the survey. In addition, this study is also covered by the Quality and Management Regulation, which means that managers at all levels of the entire specialist health service, including the study, are legally obliged to review the results and initiate improvement work together with the trustees and the HMS managers in their departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2668	I have a follow-up question. Will it be presented to the Stortinget what is being done, or is it up to each individual health care establishment, and then we will not know more about it? Then I have another question, which concerns the matter itself, about annual messages. The starting point was that we had a big message that had a target of 25 pst. reduction. We don't get to that, and annual messages also don't mean we're closer to that goal. So my second question is whether one will come up with a new target for the reduction of patient injury, or whether the 25 percent is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2676	To the first question: this survey covers all specialist health personnel, all departments. The results of the survey are public at hospital level, but at department level, there is – because there is a lot of person-identifiable information here – available to the trustees and to the management for follow-up. It is not natural to present the Stortinget follow-up of these kinds of results, in the individual department, in the individual hospital. These are, above all, challenges that need to be addressed at the local workplace. What is important to me is to ensure that this information comes out, and that the survey is the same throughout the country, and thus provides a good basis for the local actions that are needed for improvement, but also that I can measure management and follow up on developments – and that the Storting can follow along with it. This will be an annual survey, which means that we can also look at the impact of the actions undertaken locally and regionally in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2683	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2701	Birth is a big event – a new life, a new beginning. Most of us are so lucky that we can think back on the crucial moments of joy, but for some people it didn't work out the way it was supposed to – and the health service was tested to its limit. The fact that all children and mothers get the best follow-up and the best assumptions should be a matter of course. All too often we hear stories about women and children who do not receive the birth aid they are entitled to. Short laytime, lack of communication between agencies, birth outside birthplace, lack of staffing – much about resources. We as society and community cannot be aware that women at the most vulnerable moment in life do not feel secure. In the Bergens newspaper, we have repeatedly been able to read about poor food supply, about births that are interrupted because of low manning, birthing women who are alone, women who do not get painkilling time enough, and employees who cry at work. The stories come from all over the country, and the pictures are confirmed by supervision and feedback from professional environments. Then the answer cannot be that we are better than many other countries, that we women in Norway should be indirectly grateful. Although we have a good supply of food in this country compared with many other countries, we cannot relieve political leaders of their responsibility for just everyone to feel this security. There are about 60,000 children born in Norway every year. In recent years, there have been major changes in maternity care – tighter budgets, shorter lay time, fewer births and reduction in the follow-up. The curfew at the hospital is not a hotel stay. It is a time when competent personnel will catch up with sickness and complications in mothers and children early enough. Too few people at work have consequences both too small and too large. An important quality indicator for safe maternity care is one-to-one care from midwife to women in active birth. When a midwife is present, complications can be captured so that proper help is provided. Then it goes without saying that when the midwife is not present, the unnecessary, serious outcome arises. Unfortunately, we all too often hear that there are variations written, that too few people at work make it impossible to comply with the requirement. Too early to leave hospital, vulnerable newborns travel home to municipalities that often offer very limited follow-up services. When pregnant women and newborns stay in the hospital for long enough, health professionals can catch up on complications such as jaundice, heavy weight loss, infections of the newborn or bleeding, infections and maternal pregnancy poisoning. The competence of those in the maternity ward is our children's and we women's most important security. People at the maternity ward are burning for their jobs. They provide their best every day for small and large patients. But when you're a midwife or a babysitter, you never feel like you're stretching all the way to, that the problems are always too many, it just eats up. This is how we wear out the staff in maternity care, day by day and guard. We hear about several places where the maternity wards have come to what they call a ‘tipping point’, where the working day is so demanding and the employees are so busy that it goes beyond well-being and safety. We can't have it like that. Here in Norway we have good advice, and we can afford good and safe maternity care. It's about resources, and it's about willingness to give priority. When the funding is calculated for the country’s food departments, it is the estimate of the Council of State that is a premiscible supplier. Today, good manning needs to be taken from the framework budget, while complications increase the payment. The logical flaw in this is that just high manning can prevent complications. In the Workers' Party, we have previously put forward proposals on the framework funding of maternity care, so that quality is premiered, and that proper staffing is ensured as an emergency offer. Unfortunately, the government parties voted against it. I'm afraid that maternity care is becoming a minimum service, that it's the economy and the resources that control what offers meet small and large patients. The annual birth rate is about 450 women involuntarily outside the hospital, and the number is stable. The follow-up service, i.e. the possibility of being accompanied by a midwife on the way to the hospital, is essential and an important security for many with a long journey, but high guarding and poor pay makes it difficult to recruit. Lack of midwifery in the districts also places a burden on other health professionals. Doctors and ambulancemen tell us about this. When the recruitment fails, there may be consequences for the offer that meets mothers and children. We know that there is an increasing need for health professionals in the years to come. By 2040 we may need twice as many health workers as today. Here and now we have a precarious lack of midwifery, and in addition, there are too few health care professionals trained to care for children and families out in the municipalities. Child nurses are often a forgotten group in maternity care – a working group that makes a difference. We need the full breadth and diversity of competence. We know that there is a need for a significant increase in educational capacity. Birth and maternity care is based on those who work there, and they need more colleagues now – and in the future. In the spring of 2018, Stortinget dealt with a matter to ensure a safe birth care. When dealing with the case, we received a majority of a number of important proposals to strengthen maternity care in the country. There was a majority in order to ensure safe and forward-looking maternity care by ensuring current food institutions and that health care businesses are to implement national occupational guidelines for maternity care. There was a majority in favour of always adapting to the needs of the newborns and mothers. There was a majority in favour of strengthening midwifery services and monitoring of follow-up services. But the situation descriptions and feedback we get from all over the country show that it's urgent. Then my question is to the Council of State: what has the Council of State done this year after the Storting has just taken these important decisions, to ensure that all women and newborns have good maternity care?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2726	Birth of a child is one of the greatest events in a person's life. Norwegian maternity care is of high quality and has good results. Public Health Institute user studies show that women are consistently more satisfied with maternity care in 2017 compared to 2011. The representative of Björnebeck-Waaagen points out that in the spring of 2018 Stortinget considered a proposal for a representative, Document 8:168 S for 2017–2018, to ensure safe maternity care. The government asked the government to ensure a safe and future-oriented birth care by ensuring today's food institutions. There was a significant decrease in the number of food institutions between 1970 and 1990. One important reason was that births were moved more from their own birthplaces and feeding rooms to hospitals. This was partly due to increased medical preparedness requirements, e.g. in the case of cesarean cuts, and partly due to the wishes of the natives. Some maternity wards were closed because hospitals were merged, and some maternity wards were closed because birth rates were too low. In the last ten years, there has been a smaller decrease in the number of birthplaces. There is no active centralisation of food institutions today, but changes may occur as a result of, for example: changes in the hospital structure, aggregation of hospitals. The government has determined that there should be a decentralised hospital structure in Norway. The National Health and Hospital Plan clarified the hospital structure and emergency functions of most hospitals in most parts of the country. These decisions are firm, and there are no plans to close the supply of food in these hospitals. With decisions about the hospitals in Helgeland, Oslo and the Inland, we want a hospital structure to provide hospitals that provide safe and good food provision wherever you live in the country. Responsible operation of food departments depends on several factors. Health enterprises need to balance geographical, residential, transport and professional considerations. Changes in the service provision must ensure that the needs of the food service department for professional support functions are met. Recruitment of professionals is challenging in parts of the country, and in several hospitals, the number of patients is too small to offer good enough quality. Therefore, health businesses need to take more patient groups into account than those who are born when deciding which hospitals are to have a maternity ward. In healthcare establishments where the future hospital structure is assessed, the supply of food will depend on the decisions taken in this respect. I do not believe that the assembly of the maternity wards in Molde and Kristiansund is contrary to the Stortinget's request to ensure safe and sustainable maternity care by securing the current food institutions, and I point out that we mentioned this in the National Health and Hospital Plan. I also understand that this is the reason why the decision to make a request was taken, which I pointed out during the Storting's handling of the matter. In addition, I have stressed in the Business Meeting on the follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan that any changes to the food supply should not weaken the overall food supply. There has been a lot of attention around bedtime after birth. I refer you to St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A joyous event, presented by the Red-Green Government in 2009. This shows that medical knowledge and experience indicate that a long hospital stay is not necessary after a normal birth. In 2017, the average lying time after birth was 2.8 days, and the lying time has been stable for the last five years. National occupational guidelines for maternity care indicate that the duration of hospitalisation is to be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child. I have been clear to the hospitals that no newborn children, mothers and fathers are to be forced home shortly after birth. The needs of the child and the safety of the parents shall be determined. In the 2019 mission paper, I have asked health regions to report on the implementation of the National Professional Guideline on maternity care, and in particular on how health businesses have followed up the recommendations on exit assessment. I have also asked the health regions to carry out a monitoring of the functioning of the maternity care. Health regions report on the two missions of the annual notification received by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in spring 2020. The Health Directorate has been mandated to assess the need for screening of pregnant and pregnant women in order to detect depression in its 2019 letter of award. The Directorate has also been entrusted with the task of assessing the financing of the service provided by midwives to pregnant and pregnant women in the municipality, and seeing it in the context of the current, and the desire, development and financing of the service of the same target group, provided by other professional groups such as doctors and nurses. All assignments are a follow-up to the request decision of the Storting. The government agrees that there is a need for more midwives in the municipalities, and that is why we are building up the midwife service. In 2018, we reintroduced the legal requirement for midwife competence in the municipalities that the Workers' Party removed when they were in government. Over the years, we have strengthened health centres and school health services, including midwife competence. In 2013–2019, health centres and school health services have been strengthened by over 1.3 billion. kr. In 2019, 877.4 million will be granted. NOK in the municipal framework, and SEK 430.4 million. kr is the earmarked grant for the service. In 2018, there were 20 million. kr of the earmarked grant allocated to midwifery competence in the municipalities. In 2019, this amount has increased to 40 million. kr. From 2013 to 2017, the number of nurseries increased by 46,2 p.m., according to SSB figures. Because the birth rate has been falling in recent years, there has been an increase in midwifery per 10,000 born at 52 p.m. in the same period. The government's goal is to strengthen the midwife's capacity even more. The representative, Björnebeck-Waaagen, mentions the challenges of the women's clinic at Haukeland University Hospital and refers to challenges of manpower and patient safety. Let me stress that health care companies are responsible for proper operation and staffing. In March, I asked Health West for information about the situation at the women's clinic in Haukeland in connection with a question for a written answer from Stortinget. Health Bergen informs that the trustees of the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Association of midwives and the protection service communicated a concern about patient safety and the working environment at the maternity ward of the female clinic in a letter to the Executive Director in December 2018. The senders believed that the work situation was characterised by insufficient staff to carry out the tasks, and the solution was to strengthen the staffing of 16 midwiferies. Similar concerns were raised by trustees at the women’s clinic in February 2015. Due to this concern, the County of Hordaland carried out surveillance at the maternity centre of the women’s clinic, which ended on 15 June 2016. The post-supervisory conclusion is that the County State has concluded that the ‘food clinic is not at such high risk of failure that it is in breach of defence requirements’. Health Bergen states that the staffing of the maternity ward at the female clinic has not changed significantly since 2015 and 2016 against the number of births, and that the management believes that the staffing is not irresponsible. However, the Managing Director has asked for a new review of the part-time part-time part-time in the women’s clinic with a particular focus on patient safety, health, the environment and safety. The review provides the basis for further decisions and actions. I believe we have good and safe maternity care, and I have followed up the Storting's request decision through assignments to regional health companies and to the Health Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2758	I record that the Council of State is satisfied with the situation. It is nevertheless striking that I have not met a single trade union and have not seen a single newspaper post that says I agree with him. Press on the maternity wards places more responsibility in the municipalities. When women are written earlier from the maternity wards, a competent device should be ready to take care of their mother and children in the municipalities. Unfortunately, not that reality is in many places. We have pushed responsibility into the municipalities. Today, 60,000 pregnant women and midwives have to share 424 community land mothers each year. Make that the math go up! It is important to strengthen midwife services, but we also need more childcare and health care providers. The guidelines for maternity care recommend home visits by midwives shortly after maternity leave, in order to provide close follow-up to both mother and child. But as the situation is today, neither new-born nor newly-baked mothers are guaranteed home visits. The figures from 2018 show that only two out of ten are receiving home visits shortly after printing. Many go home without breast-feeding starting, or before you know that it has become a problem, and it is worth noting that the breast-feeding rate is falling. Newly-baked mothers and children are outsourced from the maternity wards, and when professionals are not there to assess the health needs of small and large, they are not able to assess who might need some extra support in the parental role. The health centre staff report an additional workload by shifting tasks from hospitals. The fact that you, for example, not having time to review the usual care of young children, contributing to a completely unnecessary uncertainty in a vulnerable situation — additional work tasks, the need for close follow-up of women and newborns in municipalities, without sufficient time and sufficient staff to deal with all in a good enough way. Local authorities must be able to give priority to health stations. More midwives have to be hired, and the government has to assume its responsibility for training enough health nurses and midwives to meet the needs. The Council of State clearly has a responsibility for the part of maternity care that takes place outside the municipalities, especially when responsibility is shifted to the municipalities due to strict hospital budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2771	Had I been satisfied, I had not continued to prioritise improvement in this offer, but I am pleased that we have achieved a significant positive development. When a question to the women who give birth – and it is the Public Health Institute that has carried out that study – they are consistently satisfied, and they are more satisfied in 2017 than they were in 2011. It's not going down significantly, it's been stable for the last five years. This means that the lying time has been stable while there has been a sharp increase in the number of midwives in the municipalities. When the Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister of Health, every midwife in the municipality had to follow up 211 women who were born. In 2017, every midwife in the municipality had to follow up 138 women who were born. Due to the strengthening of both free and earmarked funds for this service in 2018, and now in 2019, there is every reason to believe that these figures have been further improved. What we see is that the service – the offer – has improved year after year under this government, and that those who use the service, the women who give birth, have become more and more satisfied throughout. That doesn't mean that we're going to rest on the laurels, that we're not going to continue with improvements, but there must be reason to draw out also what is actually the positive development in this area, and not just continue to paint with the broad, black brush, that the interpellant does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2782	I want to quote Henrik Ibsen: "One should never wear his best pants when one is out fighting for freedom and truth." But today we see women in Mora and Romesdal who wear clothing, that is, the finest they have, to fight for the most important thing they have. They're fighting for a safe maternity care and for maintaining their local maternity ward in Kristiansund. For the security and the experience of freedom are connected. Here I would like to get an aesthetic comment from Henrik Ibsen, but I'm never going to get it, and I'm not going to do anything about it. But the core of this matter is so serious and has created so much uncertainty that I believe that the Minister of Health should definitely comment on it and do something about it. It's still time, but we don't have that long. Health Møre and Romesdal have decided that the maternity ward should be closed. That means that the many people who today take one ferry and then two ferries, in addition, have to drive across the mountain to get to their nearest hospital. When I was visiting there yesterday, I got commended for focusing on this matter, but I really wish that it was not necessary to get messages like: Thank you very much! I'm going to give birth to my baby no. two and are terrified of being born on our way to the hospital when we're going over the mountain. The first man came quite quickly. This is a shocking reading. This uncertainty is real. In addition, More and Romsdal are the country's most frequent out-of-institution births, i.e. on their way to hospitals. The council should also focus on succession and secured positions that pay more than 25 pst., i.e. income that can be lived by. You might be able to recruit. It would have been a good start. My impression is that the professional community at the hospital in Kristiansund feels that they are not appreciated, that they are being told that the quality is too poor, based on miscalculations, misassessments and lack of proper quality indicators. This closure runs counter to the June decision on the conservation of food institutions. In my opinion, the Council of State cannot claim that he provides safe maternity care for as long as women experience having to go out into the streets, dressed in the finest they have, to fight for the most important thing they have, i.e. life, health and the sense of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2802	It is a disturbing development in the provision of birth and maternity in Norway when we see it over the years, and when we see what is planned for the future. I'm worried because special maternity care is being defined out of public service provision and more and more is something that women should have to fix themselves. There are also stronger demands that a person should be better and fed quickly, and get out of the hospital quickly. I demand respect for the midwives and for the midwives and their newborns. I believe that the efficiency requirement imposed on food institutions has now gone too far. We see it in the statistics, for example. in the case of breast-feeding. We also get strong feedback from the women for whom this service is for. The Interpellation refers to Document 8:168 S for 2017-2018, which led to a decision last year on a number of measures to strengthen both the provision of birth and maternity in Norway – on a proposal from both the Centre Party and SV. It is true that important decisions were taken with that attitude, including: to secure the birthplace of today, to strengthen the midwifery and several other decisions. The interpellation also refers to the situation in Health Bergen and the recent concerns. There's really nothing new. There have been several concerns in Health Bergen when it comes to crewing. When the council read the answer from Health Bergen, I must say that I have heard it before. That's the problem. There's a sea of differences in the reality description that healthcare professionals have, and what those who work in the services can tell us. I have trouble trusting what is being told us from the health care provider, when the distance is so great. The plans for new children’s clinic in Haukeland were the basis of the Document 8 proposal, for a plan that a large part of the women – that was probably 40 pst. – was to leave between 6 and 24 hours after birth. It means, in practice, that a person should no longer build and have maternity rooms for normal births. It was also a decision to implement the National Professional Guideline. I have asked many times before how it goes with the important requirement that all births have a midwife with them in the active phase of their birth. I have understood that it will now be reported, but I have also understood that the Council of State has no overview of this important quality requirement, and I am sure that every day there is a break in the food establishments, without any consequences, unfortunately. So the system time is being pressed. We know that the distances are reduced, as in More and Romesdal. We know that the follow-up service works very poorly in many places, and we know that there are problems with good follow-up when it comes to breast feeding, which we were in an earlier debate here today. The national professional guidelines are good, but we have no assurance that they are actually being followed. Is early printing a woman's wish, or do they feel pressured? Or do they feel that a person has to go home because the situation is not good enough, and in any case it does not help a person in need of a maternity ward? The situation in More and Romesdal is special. I disagree entirely with the Council of State when he says that the decision to close the maternity ward in Kristiansund is in line with the decision to close the maternity ward in Kristiansund. It's definitely not. There's already a big risk in North Moravia to be born during transportation, and that risk is getting even greater. There is an unacceptable development that the government and the Storting must stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2823	We who live in Bergen are proud of our city – proud of the people, the houses, the culture and the history. We're pretty much proud of our hospital too, but in recent years there's been a lot of anxiety about the women's clinic, the place where 5,000 new citizens come to the world every year. Earlier this year, the nurses ’ union and the midwife’s association sent a second warning to the Labour Inspectorate and the County Board on alarming conditions at the women’s clinic. The trustees have for a long time been concerned about the manning and claim that births have been interrupted because there are too few at work. Women don't get painkilling time enough, birthing is a lot alone, breast-feeding is exposed or absent. The crew is in wave valleys. In 2015, after a period of many deviations, 10 additional annual work was added to the maternity ward. The following year, 13 of the 15 year works were cut off to get the budget to go. Earlier this year, crews increased again by 4.5 years. The trusted ones indicate that there are 1,500 holes in the current year round. Last year there were 1,500 deviation messages. Now is the warning from the elected members of the county council to treatment at the county doctor. Those who work in healthcare go to work every day with one goal: to create security and professionalism in treatment. A little over a year ago, I myself witnessed that caring and very competent health workers at the women’s clinic in Bergen made sure that my son came to the world safely. He came almost six weeks early, and both he and his mother depended on a little extra care. We were lucky. We were there at a time with few birthing and relatively good crews. But one should not be there long before one sees what enormous work pressure the employees are under, or how they are struggling with old equipment and a building approaching 100 years. In 2023, the women’s clinic in Bergen is to be replaced by a new and modern building. That's another four years. Within that time, 20,000 more children are to be born in the old building. Governments must ensure that these 20,000 births are carried out with good staffing, rest among employees and maternity care that provides both children and parents with the security they need. The Prime Minister encourages us to have more children. The working party shares that desire. Our first commandment is to ensure security – the security of the birth of women with a birth and maternity care that gives the best possible start to a new life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2848	I note that during much of the interpellation debate, the Council of State has perhaps had its own party meeting on the first row with its party trap. Let's just hope that he has made good plans to strengthen the provision of birth and maternity for all of us ladies and for newborns. But I'm worried, and I'm not less concerned after this debate, because although Bent Höie has been the Council of States since 2013, he refers to the former government instead of taking responsibility for himself. We know that the maternity wards are under pressure and that there is a variety of offers in the municipalities. The health atlas is clear: where you live, decide what a meeting of offers out there. And it's still the way the systems don't talk well enough. Once a person has left the maternity ward, there will not be an automatic electronic notification to health centres. There is a dangerous gap between the offer made in the hospital and the offer made in the municipalities. Today, there are only two out of ten people who receive home visits shortly after they have been discharged. Where you live, which postcode you have, decide what opportunities you get, and what offers you meet in the municipalities. Governments pointed out that women were satisfied, that we thought the offer was good enough, according to surveys. I don't know if it's the same survey, from the FHI, that I'm sitting on, but it also shows that in the country's major hospitals, it scores worse on experienced satisfaction – the women lack accessible midwives, and they don't think there's enough information and guidance. We can't have it that way. We need to strengthen our common health care, and the experience with which the women are left, we should be in addition. The Workers' Party has added 1.6 billion to its alternative state budget. kr more than the hospital government. It would have been for the care of the child. In addition, we have strengthened the municipalities by 2.7 billion. kr more. We can afford a safe and good birth care here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2861	First to the representative Toppe, who claimed that I read the answer from Health Bergen. That's not right. What I read was the result of the study conducted by County of Hordaland following the previous message of concern from the trustees. That's the one I read up; it wasn't from the management of Health Bergen. And then the representative Toppe also said that we don't have an overview of how many people don't get the follow-up they're going to have during their active birth. It is true that I have asked for such an overview and also received feedback, but the feedback shows that this is documented differently between hospitals, although the feedback shows that it is between 0 and 25 pst. which does not receive the follow-up in line with the guidelines. However, to make this comparable between hospitals, we have asked health regions to report more consistently. And then we'll also get a better overview in this area. So to the interpellant: It is absolutely right that in the course of the debate I also had conversations with my party colleague, but despite being a man, I manage to do two things at the same time – both talking and listening to – perhaps in contrast to the representative, because it does not seem that the representative gets what was my message, neither in the main post nor in the first response to the interpellant. Interpellant Bjørnebeck-Waaagen is trying to create the impression that I'm from the pulpit saying I'm 100 pst. satisfied with everything, and that only the Labour Party and the representative see the challenges of today's maternity care. So I might ask the representative to listen to the reprise debate, so she gets along with the challenges that I described in my main post and in my reply. I think there is a need for improvement, but it may not be that a person can only stand on the pulpit of the Storting and try to create the impression that this is a service that has become worse years after this government, when both users' feedback and actual figures show the opposite. We are in a positive development – the offer has improved, the users have become more satisfied, the soil killer is better, the follow-up is better. So it's getting better, but I repeat again: I'm not satisfied, it's not good enough, it's going to get better, and that's again why this is so clearly prioritised in the state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2871	The debate on substance is then closed. Eight is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2889	This is an interpellation that I don't want to set up, which should be unnecessary, because we have a good health service in Norway, and we have a well-developed care service. But some have it better than others, and this interpellation is about the others. It's about the most vulnerable, and such a vulnerable group is human beings who struggle with the double diagnosis of drugs and psychiatry. Another vulnerable group is mentally ill in prison. Many of these people don't need health care. A lot of people are going down. Are there treatment-resistant patients? Is it a human right to go to ruin? Does the Minister of Health think that it is a human right to go down? Stavanger Aftenblad has told of Siw, a woman who was found dead in a municipal dwelling in Stavanger the first working day after Easter in 2015. She was 45 years old and died of an overdose. Readers are taken back to Siw's youth and on through her life. History is a description of a life of addiction, mental suffering and social distress that gradually evolves to the worse – choice and prostitution. There is also a description of a set of assistive technology devices that do not help a person in need. Many knew and understood that this was going to go wrong, but few thought that they themselves could have done better. It was finally the fire service that, after supervision, sent a message of concern to the municipality. It says a little bit. Siw needed a completely different offer than she got. Siw posed a great risk to himself. She lived a hard life in Stavanger. Did it go like it had to go? Siw's story is a story about a system of auxiliaries that doesn't work, in spite of many good helpers. A reader wrote this about the subject: ‘For me, who is not so good at involving me or familiarizing me with drug addicts, vulnerable and shaken, it’s just important to get a glimpse, so I don’t lose sight of what a person is, what a fellow human being is, and what an inclusive and warm society really is.’ That's what the interpellation is all about. Siw's history has led to more debates on the auxiliaries, and that's very good. The Health Minister himself has said that Siw has given one of the country's most deferred groups a face. That's true, because Siw is – or was – not alone. One assumes that in Norway there are about 6,000 people who are particularly hard hit by drug problems and mental disorders, who cut very poorly on living conditions, who have a shorter life span, and to whom the auxiliaries do not reach. So Siw was one of the many people that go down every year, and the worst thing is that we know who they are. The question is, what does the Minister of Health think he and the government want to do about national measures for one of the most vulnerable groups, those with extensive drug and psychiatry problems, so that they get care, defensive health care and services where they cooperate, both municipalities and specialist health services. I wonder what the Health Minister thinks municipalities and health professionals should learn from the history of Siw, and what system changes are needed. For it is not that the individual social worker, environmental worker, doctor or nurse is responsible for this situation, but that our health services do not talk together and that responsibility is powdered in many ways. Newspaper Nordland has similarly told the story of another woman, called Mia, as a serious example of a young woman who also falls between all the chairs of the auxiliaries. Mia has been hospitalized 24 times in one year – in and out of psychiatry. It is told in the article once when an emergency team went out to assess Mia for a new entry – then she was accommodated in a hotel. It is not able to take care of itself. The reading in the article seems very strong and quite unlikely. In 200 days in prison, she has made 41 attempts to take her own life. Mia needs long-term treatment, she doesn't need prison, she becomes one of the many mentally ill, and who is wrong in prison. It is referred to in the article as a girl that no one can help. But can that really be true? She is engaged in shuttle traffic between prison, institution and hospital – from the Nordlandssichehuset to Bodø in Gefängsel, from Bodø in Gefängsel via Nordlandssichehuset to Bredtveit female prison, from Bredtveit female prison back to Bredtveit, from Bredtveit female prison to the institution RIBO in Saltdal, from RIBO to Nordlandssichehuset psychiatric hospital, back to RIBO via the hospital in Kristiansand and Nordlandssichehuset, then to Trondheim in Gefängsel, from Trondheim in Gefängsel via Eastmarka psychiatric hospital back to Trondheim in prison, to the Nordlandssichehuset, no security post, and then to Bredtveit. Mia is seriously mentally injured, so why should she be treated in prison, where isolation makes her even sicker? Why is she sent as a parcel post around? And how is it going to have 24 emergencies over a year in mental health protection without anyone responding, looking down and seeing what it takes for this woman to have a decent life and a treatment scheme that doesn't make her sick? How is it possible to sit in prison for 200 days and try to take your life over 40 times without anyone saying stop and giving her another offer? She's a young woman at the beginning of her 20s. The article says that she looks like a child. Is it so that in Kingdom Norway we do not have a supply of such things as her? A few years ago, we were horrified by a similar story, about Ida, a glass girl, about how a child under child protection was moving around, tearing away from the surrounding environment, experienced massive coercion and a public utility that didn't talk together, a helper who was most concerned about defending the system, defending himself and ensuring that the journal and the protocol were right – not that one did the right thing. The Minister for the Child then apologized to Ida – it was very good – and she said further that the report on Ida had to become a syllabus for everyone working in the field of child protection. Mia, as Avisa Nordland writes, has also been under the care of child protection and has also experienced massive change, relocations, forced entry into prison. What have we actually learned from Ida, and what are we going to learn from Mia and from Siw? This year, the United Nations Torture Committee is criticising Norwegian authorities for our practice of long-term isolation in prison. According to the Committee, the isolation of interventions with major mental challenges is contrary to human rights standards and should be eliminated. The Committee also expressed concern about the lack of mental health follow-up in prison and indicated that there is a very high incidence of mental illness among prison inmates in Norway. Severe lack of bed places in mental health protection leads to isolation instead of health care. As Siw gives a face to one of the most deferred groups, those with drug problems and mental disorders, Mia-saka gives us a concreteization and gives us history to one of the many mentally ill people who are in and out of prison, and who should never be there. One year and three months after her first imprisonment, she has had six criminal offences and is at risk of detention — many of the crimes she committed while in custody. This has also raised the question of coercive measures under Section 10-2 of the Health and Welfare Act, which opens up the possibility of coercive measures being imposed by the municipality for up to three months. I hope the Council of State can comment on that. The question I want to ask is: what does the Council of State do to ensure that the most vulnerable human beings get help and coordinated services from both hospitals and municipalities to prevent the destruction of human lives, and what makes it special for the many people with mental illness who are in prison, and for those with extensive psychosis and psychiatric disorders?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2918	It makes a strong impression to read the stories of Siw and Mia. I'm glad Stavanger Aftenblad and Avisa Nordland tell these stories. I am also pleased that the representative is taking this up for debate in Stortinget. It is about two young people with extensive help needs who have not received enough help. As we have seen, this can have tragic consequences. We know that people with severe mental and drug dependence have significantly shorter lives than others. The difference in life expectancy may be up to 20 years compared to the general population. This is a difference we can't be familiar with. The two issues discussed by Toppe in their interpellation show with all clarity that patients in the field of drug and mental health easily end up between two chairs. People with complex needs for assistance shall have access to good and coherent services. There are several good relief measures, but unfortunately the failure often occurs in the transition and in the interrelationship between them. Many people get good help, but we still have a way to go before we can be sure that all people with big and complex needs get a good enough help. This is why the government continues to give a high priority to mental health and drug use. We focus on health promotion, prevention and better treatment. Simple stories about patients falling between different chairs, who are not getting enough help, make a deep impression. It's important that we use these events to learn how to make even better services, so that we avoid more people experiencing the same things as Siw and Mia. The government is concerned with ensuring good health care for the individual patient. This means that services must be organised on the basis of the patient’s needs. The specialist health service and the community health service need to cooperate more closely. To facilitate this, we have launched more measures. From the turn of the year, the first six cycle packages of mental health and alcohol were made available. I am pleased that one of these package steps is aimed at precisely investigating and treating children and young people. From 1 January this year, the first patients could be referred to package courses in both mental health and substance abuse. During 2019, three additional package trajectories will be implemented. These should contribute to increased user involvement, equal treatment, better care for somatic health, living habits and, in particular, better interaction. With the package sequences, the patient gets to know what's going to happen, when it's going to happen, and who's responsible. Each patient shall have his/her own coordinator, who shall be the patient’s and the family contact person. All of these elements are crucial to avoiding the kind of experiences that Siw and Mia have had. The provision of assistance to patients with special challenges is organised in many places through so-called ACT teams and FACT teams. This is a team that provides treatment at the patient's home, adapted to the patient's needs. So this is not an offer of room at a closed-ended institution or a long-term stay at a bedside place, but there are services where the specialist health service and the municipality together provide coordinated help. We want to stimulate the establishment of even more such teams between municipalities and specialist health services. The ACT teams have an overall approach and help people with severe mental disorders, complex needs and possibly concomitant drug problems. Evaluation shows that for this patient group, coercive use has been reduced by up to 70 pst. In addition, patients have improved their quality of life, and the number of days spent in specialist healthcare has been halved. We want more ACT/FACT teams to be set up. Therefore, in 2018, eight ACT teams, 38 FACT teams and 21 pre-scheme projects were granted grants for the creation and operation of long-term and/or complex service needs. There has been a significant increase in the number of teams since the end of 2017. Psychiatric health protection is also one of the main themes of the new national health and hospital plan presented later this year. Here we need to clarify how we want mental health protection to develop further. In recent years, we have seen a growth of nearly 2,000 annual works in municipal mental health and drug treatment. The State has a system whereby municipalities providing particularly resource-intensive health and care services to individual recipients may apply for the funding of part of these costs. In 2015, we presented the escalating plan for the drug field. With the appropriations for 2019, the government has so far granted SEK 1.8 billion. kr for follow-up of the plan. Good accessibility is an important prerequisite for helping people seeking treatment for drug problems — often in combination with mental disorders. In order to achieve this, the capacity of the services must be good. I am therefore glad that we have almost halved the waiting time for drug treatment in recent years. In addition, we have reintroduced the golden rule. This means that the growth in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment alone is to be greater than that of somatic care. We have also started work on a drug reform under the heading From punishment to help, and we have recently launched another new overdose strategy. I would also like to touch on prisons, which the interpellant was also involved in. All prisoners are entitled to the same healthcare as the general population, within all three sections of the specialist healthcare system. It is the host municipalities of the prisons that are responsible for providing prisoners with health and care services under the Health and Care Act. It is the health region where the prison is geographically located, which is responsible for the provision of hospitalised specialist health services — both in somatic matters, mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment. Over time, we have built up treatment provision for drug addicts in prisons. Today, 17 prisons have their own prisons for prisoners with drug problems. In addition, there are separate outpatient clinics in mental health protection at the main prisons, and we want to strengthen this offer. We know that many prisoners are on the bar on release after atonement. Many people literally carry a plastic bag with personal assets in their hands — without any drug-free social networking, housing or work. Therefore, in 2017, five ministries launched a four-year national strategy for coordinated repatriation following the imposition of penalties. This strategy will help to avoid the ‘plastic bag situation’ that I just described. As part of that strategy, the government has recently concluded an intention agreement with KS on post-criminal cooperation. The government's inclusion rate shall be increased by the number of people with reduced working capacity or gaps in the CV into the labour market. In 2019 we have granted 125 million. NOK to this. Weak or unconnected to work is one of the reasons why many people with mental and drug problems end up between several chairs. It is a paradox when we know that association with the labour market can be both a protective factor for disease development and an important factor in the improvement process of the individual. Among the bets in the inclusion dungeon is 55 million. Dr for individual job support, a method which, through simultaneous assistance from Nav and healthcare, is intended to help people with severe mental or drug problems into normal work. Finally, I would like to refer to the government's new political platform, the Granavolden declaration. This shows that the government will strengthen treatment provision in the field of mental health protection in criminal care. In addition, it is emphasised that the government will reduce the use of insulation. I mention these two elements because the representative Toppe also points out that both the two women had zoned in prison, and she addressed this issue in her post. We know that many prisoners have, in part, extensive mental disorders — often associated with drug problems. It is therefore important that the Minister of Justice and I work together to ensure that prisoners receive the help they need, and to limit isolation under compensation as much as possible. Isolation itself can lead to a worsening of mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2946	Thank you to the Council of State for his contribution. I feel that the Council of State is busy with this group, and I will admit that this is not easy. This is actually demanding, and it challenges our healthcare service on what is the most fundamental, easy cooperation and responsibility. It's often about young people who don't get help, who end up between all the chairs. Then I challenge the government and the government on what one sees as concrete measures, so that it actually leads to a change – that it doesn't always happen that these marginalised groups have a high risk of going down to the ground, simply. I agree with the Council that much of what is being done is also beneficial for this group, such as strengthening the field of drug and mental health. The package sequence can also contribute to this group, and the ACT team and FACT team can also be a very good offer for just getting the interaction between local and specialist health services. Equally, it is with drug reform and overdose strategy. However, I have a concern that these measures will work for many, but those groups with a story that I describe here are very vulnerable, very marginalised, and often will not be treated themselves. It challenges the service, and then it's a necessity to follow them up in a completely different way than maybe very many others to get this done. So I could wish that the Council of State could agree that this particular group we're talking about here, we have to look at extra -- see if we can have some special measures that can help municipalities and hospitals work together, to make it work much better. I am pleased with what the Council of State addresses about isolation and coercion in prison. I get too little time to talk about this, but Mia-saka is very much about it – that people who are mentally ill are not getting enough health care in prison and are actually getting sicker from being there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2957	It is not easy; I fully agree with the representative. It is difficult to coordinate and get many of the various help services we have to hang around the individual. At the same time, it's very often about the simple. It's about having a home where someone feels safe. It's about a long-standing relationship with a few people in healthcare who are gradually building trust, so that one can easily describe it as the golden moment — where one is susceptible to more help or sees an improvement in the situation of life — gets hold of it and put it into practice. And it's about the ability to participate in work and activity, and not least about basic health care. That's exactly where I see that the ACT and FACT teams are reaching. It's a system that's made for maybe just one of our people's proms that probably belonged to Mia and Siw's. Since I was very early active in local politics, I remember very well the stories I got from the administration of the municipality about the hopeless ones we had in the municipality, which it was not possible to help. This is just one prom, and they're not hopeless. It is the help we have offered them, which has created hopelessness and has not helped to help them further. At the same time as I started working as a local politician, I also met a young engaged man with whom I became partly acquainted, and with whom I did not meet again until a short time ago. In the meantime he had been one of this one prom, but not among those that the auxiliary device might have said earlier it was not possible to help. He had been admitted much of the year, often under compulsion. He now lives in owner-occupied housing, takes higher education and has a completely different situation in life – precisely because he was eventually followed up by an ACT team in his municipality. It tells me that there is hope, and I fully agree with the representative that one should not give up anyone, but always have faith that it is possible to make a difference. We need to be even better at adapting our offers around the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2968	It's an important interpellation the representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up. Through the stories of Siw and Mia, it gives the opportunity to raise a debate about the most vulnerable in mental health and drug abuse. Stories of addiction and mental disorders are often the story of how it goes when early interventions fail, for largely mental disorders and heavy drug problems have not started. Often the path is quite a long one, but we see the consequences that society has failed to help along the way, and thus that the challenges have been allowed to evolve. The Minister for Health is concerned, among other things, with: the introduction of package pathways for mental health and alcohol. I think there might be a lot of positive with the introduction of that kind of package sequence. At the same time, it is also essential that resources are monitored when implementing the package processes. For 2019, the Workers' Party has proposed to strengthen the municipalities' economy by 3.5 billion. kr and hospital finances of SEK 1.6 billion. kr more than the government. That's not the whole answer, of course, but the prerequisite for a good interaction is also that one has the people needed to succeed in such a kind of work. Then it's also about interacting to find good solutions, and not using the situation to shift responsibility to each other. We had a case earlier today about the construction of bed places in psychiatry. At least it is my experience that this reduction may not always take place because of professional arguments and because the municipalities are ready to take over, but that it is financially justified. Perhaps especially in this kind of case that Kjersti Toppe travels in the interpellation, it is absolutely essential that it is the professional arguments that are allowed to win, and not a pressing economic situation that forces solutions that are bad for the individual, but that also makes society feel like having these people in the auxiliary equipment maybe their whole lives, because one does not do it properly when a first puts in the effort. So I'm going to take a slightly different example, and it's those who might be on their way out of the challenges they're facing. Last year, we had a case of post-care, where an overall opposition, including the Christian People's Party, was very concerned that we had to get a better interaction for those who have had drug problems, have been involved in treatment and are going back and forth in a municipality – a case in which there was a majority for the integration of treatment provision for patients with drug-related disorders and/or mental disorders, where the majority of the parties pointed out that health companies had to be committed to their responsibility for follow-up and organisation after day-care. When we dealt with the budget, the answer from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left on this very point was that this challenged the division of responsibilities between the specialist health services and the municipalities in the follow-up of patients after outsourcing from daily treatment. Yes, it may be, but I think it is absolutely necessary if we are to succeed, that one instance does not release the roof until the other has shown that it has taken over the responsibility. Here, we need flexibility in the system, not rigid limits that this is the responsibility of the specialist health service or the responsibilities of the local health service, and that one then gets the opportunity to owe one another, but on the contrary, to agree on the desire to interact for the best for each individual. I absolutely believe that we in this room have a cross-political common goal of helping these groups, but then the assumption is that it is followed up with a willingness to deploy both proper and sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e2985	In nurse training, students learn that people are complex in many ways, and make this visible by dividing people into four areas: the physical, the mental, the spiritual and the social. All areas are equally important to achieve a whole. Over the decades, we have been working in Norway to equalise mental health and physical health. It shall not mean anything where you have hurt, whether it is in the heart or in the soul, in the head or in the mind, in the eyes or in the perception. Gradually, medicine and psychology have found each other, and we have understood that things are connected, at least on a general level. We now know that mental symptoms, distress and suffering can have physical causes, and vice versa. In Norway, you will receive just as rapid and good help no matter what your plagues are. That's why it intersects in the heart when you hear stories like them about Mia and Siw – two young, vulnerable people who didn't get the help they needed when they needed it, young people who felt like they weren't being seen, even though more were standing around and then. How can this happen, we ask ourselves. Why didn't we see it? Why couldn't we help? Unfortunately, there are more like Mia and Siw around in our long-range country. We're still researching why. Luckily for them most are seen and understood, but some when we unfortunately don't enter into. Interpellant Toppe asks the Council of State what he can do to ensure that the most vulnerable people get help and coordinated services, both from hospitals and from municipalities, and to prevent the destruction of human lives. Since then, this government has been committed to building up mental health services and services for drug addicts, including drug addicts. through the golden rule. Prevention of mental illness is a major field of activity, and municipalities have increased their budgets to build up school health services and health centres, to establish psychological positions and to develop good cooperation practices between first and second line services. I believe that much of the formal, coordinated cooperation is already planned and facilitates its use. Many have also been used, but these services are to be developed and carried out by professionals – professionals who will respect each other's professionalism, professionals who together find the right way to go, professionals who are safe enough to set their own goals aside to ask the most important question in the meeting with the patient and the user: What is most important for you? I've been thinking and thinking. Can any man prevent the loss of a human life? I think sometimes, but not always. That doesn't mean we're going to give up. We will continue to search for answers through conversations with people who have difficulties, conversations with relatives, with the organisations. In particular, I believe that close cooperation with the young people in the Change Factory can be involved and give us answers we did not know before. Yesterday, I was in a meeting at something called the Fresh Bris project in Bamble, which is just one of the things I experienced that the representative Tellef Inge Mørland also mentioned, that you have to work together, both municipal health service, specialist health service, Nav, etc., and that you have someone to make sure that people who are struggling and who have great challenges with both rush and psychiatry get help to get started again, so that they can come back. To be outside, to stand outside the social community, is tough, and it's about how we can make people come back in. That is why this is so important, and that is why I am very pleased with the debate that the representative Toppe is raising. I also feel that the Council of State is very clear that this is an important debate and that there are important discussions. Because it's about helping people, some of them sitting at the very bottom of the table, and having the good measures, the ones giving dignity, the ones giving respect, and the ones helping people back in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3006	Thank you to the people who have taken the word. The Health Minister said that one should not give up anyone, and I am pleased that he says so. He commented that I said that this was demanding to say that it is actually easy. I'm not dissenting about it either, because what might be demanding in our healthcare service – so fragmented it's after all – is to secure what's simple, what's completely basic. The council said it was about long-term relationships, housing, the ‘Golden moment’, work and activity and basic health care, and that is quite right, but especially the last. First of all, they don't die, they don't take their lives. When it's this far, it's actually what it's all about. So this is the one with the ACT and FACT teams and the strengthening of addiction, mental health: Of course, this is the platform that we need, the frames that we need to have out there, to also help this group. But I think we can have a lot of resources for mental health, a lot of resources for the municipalities and the health services – and yet this group can kind of disappear between all the chairs. For it is also about systems, both in the municipalities and in hospitals, and then it is about system cooperation between the two. And it's strange, when we're talking about Mia, who has had 24 emergencies in one year in mental health: regardless of whether one has such an offer or such, I think it's alarming that there's no arrest. I have to say that, because then it will also be much harder to discover those who are actually in danger and to put measures in place before, so that they will not be harmed. For the longer it goes, and the more damage a host, the harder it becomes to get a better life again, the harder it gets to treat. I could have wished the Council of State said something about the coercive issue, because it is a fact that for some of these it is that too little coercion can also be harmful. This with coercion from the municipality's side has come up, now that it is more difficult to coerce when one is competent to consent, which is something that everyone is in. I also think this is something that has to be discussed. I know there's going to be a selection that says something about this, but nevertheless it would be good if the council said something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3024	Thank you for a good debate. I can see that there is no disagreement about what is our common goal. There is also a lot of consensus about the instruments. In my opinion, the FACT and ACT teams will be a very good way to work for those who have such large and complex needs. The representative Toppe is absolutely right that we have to hope that in the future we will be able to have a health service that is organized so that we can catch people in the past, before it takes so long, and that you get more systematic help. I have great faith that if we succeed in the work that is now in progress on the package process – a system for managing and providing follow-up and treatment to the individual and organising services at an earlier stage, which this will contribute to – we will hopefully avoid anyone coming into the situation that they need as complex services as the starting point for this debate. Then the representative takes up the question of coercion. My starting point is that I am concerned about the forced use of Norwegian healthcare. Because the variation is so great, there's every reason to believe that there's too much coercion. And of course, it's also, as the representative was in it, sometimes right to use coercion. It's e.g. right to use coercion if you are afraid that a person may take his or her own life. You can use coercion if you are afraid that a person poses a serious danger to others. Then we need a fundamental discussion on legislation and legislation in this area. That is why I am pleased that it is now quite a short time for the Forces Committee to present its proposals. The Forces Committee is just going to look at the legislation in this area, which is currently very much not adapted to the individual user, because we have different legislation in the fields of mental health, drugs, somatics, and the municipalities and specialist health services have different legislation. Many have, as we have seen in this debate, cohabited drug-related, mental and somatic health challenges. At the same time, they receive help from both the local and specialist health services, and one can imagine how many possible combinations there are of coercive legislation in meeting with a person, and it becomes complicated. I am very excited about the work the Forces Committee has done. I am sure that will lead to a lot of further debate on that very topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3039	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3057	Technological development gives us new opportunities to develop good, efficient and environmentally friendly transport solutions. The transport sector is facing major changes. It is being reformed in several areas. The car fleet is electrified, and green shipping is on the march. Public provision of framework conditions that encourage development and innovation. The main drivers of development are not always political, but are governed by megatrends and international markets. Nevertheless, political decisions are important. Policy-defined framework conditions are important, and the State itself is an important market player. That is why we need to take up the debate on how to exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies in the transport sector. In the time to come, we will – and must – use resources more effectively. New and more environmentally friendly fuels will be developed, the use of intelligent transport systems, ITS, will provide more efficient solutions, and a more modern and adapted infrastructure will provide a better transport everyday life for all. This Christian People's Party welcomes this. Transport challenges will become increasingly important in future cities. The scarcity of land will fall, and the emissions will have to decrease. To address the challenges such as: is related to road safety, capacity, environment and climate, we need to modernise the transport system. For example, intelligent transport systems could be an important factor in this type of modernisation process. Systems for the application of information and communication technologies in the road sector can influence behaviour and improve transport solutions and traffic management. New technological solutions can improve accessibility, improve road safety and contribute to lower emissions from the transport sector. I am pleased that we have a government active in modernising the transport system, including through technological innovation and early use of new solutions. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this work be reinforced in the future, and that we ensure that we have a regulation and legislation that is always up to date and relevant. It has not been long since we dealt with the Digital Agenda for Norway. It committed itself to increasing efforts in technology and digitisation. We did the same thing when the current NTP was adopted. I'm glad, and it shows that this government will be an active driver of development. There are major trends we're talking about here, but it's also a development we can stimulate, strengthen and direct. For a technology optimist, the development of superpowers offers opportunities! I will not assume any role as a fortune-teller and draw conclusions about what the future will look like for the Norwegian transport sector. There may not be any of us in this room that should do today. However, I would like to highlight four main trends in technology development that can contribute to the development of the coming years. There are four trends that we already see in force today, and which we must assume will intensify in the time to come. It is about electrification, digitisation, automation and autonomy and last but not least about the emergence of new business models. Electrification is probably the most obvious and the easiest thing to see, and what's most up today. We all see electric cars rolling off farms. Electrification will have consequences for emissions but may also have major consequences for the characteristics of the means of transport. And as the market and technology evolve, costs can be reduced. As far as the car park is concerned, we have come a long way in Norway, and we should be happy for that. 31 pst. of the new car sales in 2018 were electric cars. That's something we're looking forward to. This shows that the policy of today's government is working. Within shipping, electrification is in a start-up phase, but we see Norwegian actors take a leading role there as well. I am pleased that the Norwegian authorities have been out early with, among others. setting environmental requirements in tendering processes. For aviation it is still a long way to zero emission solutions, but exciting things are happening here as well. Avinor believes, for example: that all domestic aviation in Norway could be electrical by 2040. It sounds ambitious, but I think it's a wise goal. Emissions from aviation have to go down, and we see that, for example: Airbus works with small electric planes and drone concepts. Electrification, together with the use of biofuels and other technological developments, can play an important role in the future. The second main feature is digitisation. Digitalisation in the transport sector opens up opportunities for a sea. Digitalization is not exactly new. It is a development that has been going on for several years, but the opportunities offered by digitisation for the transport sector lie ahead of us. Just think of autonomy, the development of interoperable intelligent transport systems and not least the development of new business models. We can get new sharing solutions, seamless travels, and maybe in the future we don't even own our own resources, but buy them as a mobility service. The third thing I want to draw out is autonomy and automation. There is a rapid development of autonomy in all modes of transport. In rail transport, autonomous solutions exist in several parts of the world in urban railways, accommodation services and in internal transport at airports. At sea the development of autonomous ships is rapid. In the air, drones are being developed that can be used for more and more purposes, whether it be research, monitoring, preparedness, communication or simply the provision of services. There has been a lot of talk about self-driving cars. I guess there's someone here who knows about some uncertainty, maybe some skepticism, too, for himself, that we can get to a point where the driver suddenly becomes superfluous. But there are increasing developments in driver support systems, and perhaps these are gradually becoming so good that even the most anxious of us is afraid to release the wheel. The latest development in the transport sector that I want to bring forward is about sharing mobility. New solutions are being developed here, and things are moving fast. There may be car sharing, bicycle sharing, interconnection, taxi services such as Uber and other. Through these types of solutions, transport can be provided as a service – a seamless combination of different means of transport and in the same way. The Christian People's Party welcomes new services, but here we have to make sure to have an up-to-date law. It is particularly important to ensure that we have good offers across the country. We also need to have at least as good a quote in the districts as what we have today, for example. in the case of taxi services. Finally, I have raised some issues in this article that I hope may be the basis for an important debate. It is very important to discuss how we are now meeting the transport challenges of the future. Although we are becoming more and more people in need of transport services, and although more and more goods are to be transported, the debate must be with positive signs. Technology gives us new opportunities. The premise for the debate must be what we can do, what opportunities there are, and how we rigged to meet new needs. What adjustments are needed, what should the money go to, what are important framework conditions, and what should the government's task in this regard be? That is why I am now challenging the Council of State to explain what the government is doing to exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies in the transport sector, and how new technologies can be an important factor in planning future mobility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3103	Let me first of all thank the representative Gruvan for a good interpellation on an important theme, which can actually be divided into two really large potential areas – areas where we also need to congratulate the transport system over the coming years. One is the technology division that we now have in many ways. The second is the climate challenge that we are going to solve, and where the transport sector must be a central part of the solution if Norway is to be able to meet its obligations under the Paris Agreement. In total, it presents us with great challenges, but also enormous opportunities, because we have also seen in the past that Norwegian companies are able to innovate, create jobs and be able to generate growth when one allows them to take on new technologies and new methods. Therefore, it could be tempting for me just to start with the show-off list of everything that has gone wrong in the last few years. I'm not going to do that, but I'm going to go into some key elements that I think are decisive because we're doing the transition we're actually facing in the transport sector. The challenges are many. Transport of goods grew, public transport grew, and passenger car transport grew. In sum, that means that there's growth in the country, that's an expression for it. That means Norway is still competitive. It is a force for growth in the country that can create values, that underpins well-being and growth in the years to come – there are fundamentally positive developments in it. At the same time, we need to be able to solve both the capacity challenges arising in the infrastructure and the climate challenges that are common to us. And we have to do it at the same time as people feel that their mobility is getting better and not worse, because we're in a new time for mobility. Travel habits for people are different. People's expectations about what kind of offers they receive are different. This is also important when we know that it is mainly the public sector that invests, builds, owns and operates public transport, and – not least – the investment decisions about all the important infrastructure decisions that are taken in our country. For this reason, the representative Gruvan is quite right when he says that we must – to an even greater extent than we have done so far – be able to plan for the technology shift to take us somewhere different from where we are today, even when it relates to infrastructure solutions. That's basically good. It provides growth potential, and it provides better solutions for those who, after all, use our infrastructure – people and businesses in this country. But what we have to do in the future is also a little bit about what we've done. There are many discussions in this House on the reform of the railways. The railway reform has led to a clear division of responsibilities, but it also means that we now have more companies, who can focus on their core tasks and who can actively contribute to technological development. This means that the company formerly called Norway State Railways, which from now on is called Vy, is planning to behave differently in the market than the traditional collective companies have done, simply because they have meant and have realized that in the future passengers will not be able to stand and wait for an offer if they are going to travel collectively. They must have a seamless journey from the door they walk through, until the door they enter, instead of having to travel at a time they don't want to, or don't want to, until a point they don't actually end up at. This means that the collective journeys are going to change, and the everyday journeys to people are going to change. The representative Gruvan is also quite right in saying that we have a good example of happiness. The electrification we see in our fleet, for example. in the ferry now, is not only developed as a result of the state having ordered, but also of that we have played on the environments of competence we have. Good cooperation between public and private actors has contributed to both a technology that reduces emissions and new investments in materials, which also improves our regularity in many areas. The electrical flight effort, which Avinor points to as a solution, may be the only solution necessary to replace today's oncoming aircraft, which we believe is out of date in the period after 2030. There are not so many smaller aeroplane types built with pressabine today. Many point to electric planes as the new solution. Through the National Transport Plan, the four Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Progress Party have been a few, we have for the first time put in place a billion euros of technology. I thought that was very good. This means that we are now testing pilots, but it also means that we, as the controller of the infrastructure, are creating new test areas. Therefore, we test autonomous buses in several areas of the country. That's why we're testing autonomous ships. This is why we are creating a new drone strategy that will allow us to use and test new technology development in Norway as well. That's why we're constantly seeing new parts of the infrastructure to manage that we're changing. I think we have to admit that politics often ends up falling behind when technology really begins to accelerate. One of the areas where we've seen that there's risk is when we have very long time horizons in the national transport plan. For this reason, it is also important that the transport plan that we are now working on be able to address the number of issues that may arise before technological development can take place. So it's not sure that that's exactly what's coming, but that means we need to have an open hold on it, and we don't have to delineate technology developments in the way we plan infrastructure. One of the things that is interesting in this discussion is for example: the debate on autonomy, which was also the subject of the representative, Mr Gruvan. There will be too many people on the day they let go of the wheel. Then you can wonder what they're going to do in the car. But it's really interesting only when one sees what the technology that enables us to let go of the wheel, can actually do for our transport planning. So a lot of time, based on real-time information supplied to a vehicle, whether on rubber wheels or on hams, can make conscious choices, based on how an easy one comes from a to b, how one can plan the best way to travel. That means that one can choose away, or the car can choose away, the path that a normal person would have run, because there is a queue there today, and choose another route, which gets a faster forward – without one having to do anything himself. But that also means that we get to use the capacity of the infrastructure that we have built out, completely different. That means that we can plan for it, and that means that our investment decisions might look different. If we put at the top of this what kind of intelligent transport system solutions we can get, it's hard to see the limitations of the technology that we're facing. That is by no means the most important thing. The most important thing is that this is going to go incredibly fast. Today it is approx. 10 years ago we got e-mails on the mobile phone. After that, the post volume has fallen dramatically, simply because the technology has replaced the way we act. We might also see that in many different parts of our transport system for years to come. The most important thing we have to do then, as a regulator, is not to put unnecessary obstacles in the way of testing new technology in a safe way. If we do that, we will also be able to implement traffic-safe technology faster than many others. If we do that, we can take care of it in transport planning when we make investment decisions. If we do that, we can also solve and raise new value creation, new businesses and new jobs, based on the environments of competence we have, or can get, in Norwegian business. In sum, it gives us greater opportunities for better emergence, better collective solutions, better exploitation of the investments made in infrastructure and, not least, the possibility of an even closer cooperation with Norwegian business, which also provides profitable jobs throughout the country. Therefore, this must also be a central element in the planning of a new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3135	I would like to thank the Council of State for what I would call a forward-looking approach to using the new opportunities offered by technology to address both the mobility challenges and – not least – the climate challenges. Let me focus on another area that can have an exciting and new future using new technology. Maritime transport is probably the greenest and most important mode of transport we have for the transport of large quantities of goods. 90 pst. of all the goods of the world are transported on ships today. By automating and transferring freight transport to refrigerated transport, we save the environment and can improve road safety, while at the same time getting more reliable transport of large quantities of goods over long distances. In Norway, we have a potential for automation and remote management of autonomous ships. Here we can work for increased safety and better environmental solutions. Seaborne transport accounts for more than 80 pst. of transport in Norway today. Shipping is the most energy efficient mode of transport. Transferring goods from road to sea will contribute significantly to reducing climate emissions from the transport sector. The increase in the share of goods on ships also reduces the number of cows and accidents and reduces road wear and other socio-economic costs. In the national transport plan, we have set a target of 30 pst. of road transport over 30 miles shall be transferred to sea and rail by 2030. This is ambitious goals, and there's no easy way to achieve this goal – I think we all recognize that. However, we need to work purposefully through policy initiatives and actions, and autonomous ships can be an important factor here. As I was inside my main post, there is a lot of exciting happening in this field. For example, Yara and Kongsberg are developing the autonomous ship ‘Yara Birkeland’, which is expected to operate in 2020. Authorities have an important role to play here. We need to facilitate the use by shipping companies of driverless autonomous and fully automated ships. Such development is not only in the interests of shipping companies, it is also in the interests of the big community. And maybe -- I might say -- autonomous ships could help make large and expensive transport projects less urgent in the future. It might have been interesting to hear the Council's assessment of exactly this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3148	As the representative was inside, there is a lot of excitement, especially before shipping. That's one of the things we have in common, where we've done a good deal in recent years, and where we've also increased the potential significantly. In particular, as the representative is present, it may also be part of the solution for freight transfers. We can see that, for example. now, when actors regularly crossing Oslofjord look at the possibility of using own freight ferries to achieve an efficient logistics in the transport corridor using autonomous ships. That's also the case, and what I think is really important, is that in politics we are very often occupied with what we have bought, or what we have ordered. In the transport sector, we are also an important regulator. The fact that an actually gets to test new technology in Norway, is very decisive for our ability to make rapid use of it. I mean that Norway is in many ways the perfect testing country for technology of this kind of calibre. Our coastline is long. We have a long-distance country with many roads, and – in the name of Eden – many places without a particular amount of traffic. We have a collective service that is well-developed in the core network, which also means that we use new technologies, for example. can run trains tighter and with the few increases in capacity of already developed infrastructure. We actually see it in the area by area. So I don't think there's any reason to be afraid of technology developments coming, and if it gives us new opportunities, we'll accept thanks. I still need to say that they think that an autonomous ferry will solve all the problems along the E39 – I still think, as I have said many times – are wrong. It is about developing the rural and labour market region. I only have to say that when I'm in turn. I also have to go into one of the things that I think is a direct indication that we're on the right track in many areas, even when it's up to using new technology. The establishment of Entur after the railway reform was a first but very important step towards understanding what the new transport systems are actually going to look like. Our clients in public transport need to find information a place, not to look in a youth. The fact that we collect information and travel data, so that one can plan a joint collective journey, is one of the things that is now pointing towards a more coherent mobility system – one of several important actions that are now underway and that we will also see significant results from the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3161	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for raising the importance of new technologies in the transport sector. This is becoming increasingly important in the future. The combination of cutting-edge new technologies and good access will change our everyday lives in the coming years. We've only seen the beginning of the possibilities that lie in this development, and it's happening faster and faster. Technology can give us better mobility and a green transport sector. For citizens, it means simpler, faster and safer day-to-day travel, and for business it means more efficient and climate-friendly freight transport. As both the inter-pellant and the state councils have been involved, there are some key developments we are seeing today. Electrification takes place through strong instrument use and improved battery technology. Autonomous and automated solutions are becoming part of everyday life. Various sharing solutions are also becoming part of transport everyday, and we see the emergence of intelligent transport systems, so-called ITS, and not least the emergence of new business models based on new technology. There are many areas we can highlight where Norway is at a global level, especially in areas where we are not only good at using technology, but also helping to implement new and ground-breaking solutions – which also create new jobs in Norway. Norway has a world-leading maritime sector, we are a maritime nation and have well-developed maritime clusters. When I'm in Ulsteinvik and I'm visiting Ulstein Verft, I can spare the construction of the hybrid ship Color Hybrid. Looking beyond the fjord, work is underway on Hurtigruten's new and more environmentally friendly passenger ships. If I go to the neighbouring municipality of Herøy, Havila Kystrutten builds top modern ships with significantly lower emissions. It not only contributes to lower emissions but also to new and exciting jobs in Norway. We have had many visits from abroad to the Transport Committee lately – they want to know more about what is happening in Norway, not least what is happening with the phase-in of electric cars, which is quite extraordinary. For some time ago, we had visits from some parliamentarians from the United Kingdom, and they summed up very well: Norway has abundant access to clean energy, has a well-developed power grid and good digital access through a well-developed mobile and broadband network. That is why we have also come relatively far with technological developments and not least the use of technology. However, in order for Norway to remain fully focused on technological developments and the green transition of the transport sector, we must continue to be forward-looking. The new technology that is being developed today needs to be reorganised by the state. According to internationally recognised environment, technological developments in the transport sector will be central in the coming years. The Boston Consulting Group has estimated that mobility will be one of the world's most important business areas in 2030. This also offers many opportunities for further development for Norway. In order to participate in these future opportunities, we need to see more coherent mobility. The UN Sustainable Development Goals were adopted in Paris in 2015. Norway has agreed to these objectives. If Norway is to achieve the objectives of greening mobility, we have to take infrastructure into account. Transport must then be optimised, we must establish smart cities and societies, and we must have sustainable transport chains for industry and a sustainable infrastructure for goods and people. In order for us to get even further, and to really exploit the potential of technology, there are some new assumptions that lead the research community in Norway and internationally say that we as executive law enforcement agencies need to focus on the future. One is access to and management of large data. The second can be standardisation, and the third – not least – are real-time communication solutions that allow the use of technology. I'm convinced that the key is to facilitate the use of new technology in a way that creates a better offer to people. It also means that we need to have more such debates in the future, meet technological developments with an open mind and not use the forces to work against, but with development. It also means that in the future we have to be willing to think more about new, think bigger, and think more completely. We need to test out new solutions and run more pilots, and we need to spend more money researching how new technologies can and should affect the transport sector. It is a discussion that we need to deal with the new national transport plan, on which the Council of State was involved, and in the current budgets, and which is absolutely necessary if Norway is to remain closely involved in the transition of the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3180	Like the previous speaker, I think it is very nice that the representative Grøvan addresses these matters. This is going to be very important in the future. We are talking here about future transport. There's a lot of angles of incidence for this subject. One of the approaches is the road user, the user. The second is the opportunities offered by the Norwegian business community – it is important. The third is the environmental aspect – it is no less important. The latter are the employees and occupational groups facing quite major challenges in this shift. Maybe the entire profession can be lost, at least very limited. There's also a point to take with you on the road. I'll say a little bit about several of these points. For the road user – the user – the technology can, of course, give greater freedom, more choice and greater flexibility. Transport can be tailored more to individual needs. We are talking here about pick-up and accommodation services, door-to-door services, etc. Then we're talking about great individual possibilities. In the course of this, it's clear that we don't get beyond what we've been into here several times, dynamic road pricing, which is now to be investigated by the government, and which opens up many possibilities. Not least, we can talk about a ‘toll system’ – in the meaning of the transfer – i.e. a charging system, I would say, which can be tailored here as well. Then the keyword is «justice». Then we can add many criteria for our road pricing systems. There's actually no constraints at all. The political debates we are taking on those criteria will be discussed, but there are obvious opportunities in the criteria for dynamic, satellite-based road pricing. But from this individual transport we can switch over to talking about group transport, that is when you drive collectively. Swallowing buses are probably coming too far. I can't see anything but that they're doing it. It's coming. All these sea-going solutions can greatly increase the possibilities of scaling. You can scale as needed. It opens up too many possibilities. Equally exciting possibilities are, of course, in electric ferries, which have been mentioned here just now. They are also much more scalable – from the small bicycle ferries in Trondheim, in small canals in urban strips to the really big ones. Then I'm talking about ferries across, for example. The Oslo soil or the largest fjord crossings in the West. Maybe I'll come back to that. As far as business is concerned, I have said many times that we are facing enormous opportunities in connection with the maritime shift, not least in terms of the production of solutions. Then we talk a lot about exports of both products and technology. The maritime industry can actually become a very important bone to stand on in the green shift that we're facing, when we're going to go from the grey fossil economy to the new green one. Of course, we also have the environmental aspect. There are obviously many opportunities in future transport technologies that bring significant environmental benefits. I mentioned scalable vehicles and more individual needs. This means that you might not see almost empty buses so often in the districts. More tonnes to be moved by one, two, three or four passengers inside are resource waste and not environmentally friendly. Electric vehicles also provide even better opportunities for putting into service precisely autonomy. So it's a short way from electricity to electricity. It can also simply give less expansion, fewer constructions. Then I think about e.g. frequent ferry departures instead of fjord crossings, whether applicable above or below water. In the next article, I'm going to go a little bit more into the possibilities we've lost, unless the bulk of the population turns in time. What is important now is to apply the possibilities that exist. Norway is now in the driver’s seat, not least in the case of the maritime change. We have to make use of these possibilities now, and we have display windows to put them in. I'll come back to that in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3205	Unfortunately, in an interpellation debate, there is no next post, but there will be future debates that may fit into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3210	I don't think we should be afraid that Arne Nävra won't mention the fjord crossings in the West in connection with ferries or whether to build a tunnel or bridges there. I should also like to thank the representative of Gruvan for his fine interplay on technological innovation. The left is a technology-optimistic party. We have great faith that in many of the challenges we face – in terms of both climate and environment and the need for even more efficient operation and earnings – technology is the future. Then I'll mention planes. That's what seems to be the hardest thing. We have an electric plane in Norway. Avinor is offensive and tries to be ahead. I must say, I am impressed that, as a state-owned company, they are as offensive as they are, not least as regards the year 2040 for all domestic air traffic, as Gruvan mentioned in his main post, I'm at that age that I hope it happens a little bit faster, at least for part of the air traffic, because I really want to experience the electric planes. I heard when I was visiting Rolls Royce in Trondheim – which is a big company – that they have been assigned to develop the engine that can speed up. The electric aircraft engine today is 350 km/h. Now they've got two years to speed up to 450 km/h. It's a very clear task. Once the industry, the research community and the manufacturers have started that job, I believe that I too will experience that we get electric planes quite a lot earlier than 2040, but of course maybe not in the entire domestic fleet. It's long distances and big planes. But to replace the smallest Unøe planes, on which the Council of State was in, I have good faith that you can. We know that the Unesøe planes are old, and that they're some of the worst in terms of emissions, so you really have to deal with that. Green shipping is another area that is very evolving. We know what happened on the ferry side. We don't yet know what will happen to the speedboats. The high-speed craft are currently some of the other storks in terms of CO2 emissions. Per passenger kilometre, the speedboats release four times more than one aeroplane, and 90 times more than one electric train. So it's clear that the speedboats we really have to look at as an object that actually has to be electrified. There is a hope that some county councils to make purchases will address this and will require tenders to be submitted in the summer. It becomes exciting when competition for these innovations is made visible – whether they achieve the objective of reducing emissions and not least maintaining speed. It is clear that in Norway and around the world you are very busy with speed – I mentioned planes in place. The speedboats came because we needed to be transported faster from one point to another. Although energy consumption is multiplied, even if you just increase speed a little bit less, it's clear that we want to be transported faster. It will then be exciting to see if you can achieve the technological objectives and emission targets you have. The left is optimistic. We also need a law. That's what the Stortinget has to decide. The law we made for testing a self-driving vehicle, which we dealt with in December 2017, now has to be continued, so that it becomes a law that can actually be applied when it is commercial operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3225	This is a very exciting debate to have, and I'm joining the ranks of those who thank the interpellant for raising this debate. It's always exciting to look into the glass sphere what the future will bring, and there's no doubt that development is going faster than ever. Technological development and digitisation are going incredibly fast, and I'm very happy that this government is obsessive about this and is a driver for us to use emission-free transport solutions, intelligent transport systems, autonomy and everything else that comes forward. It is clear that this will also provide us with a better climate and environmental perspective, less emissions and safer traffic, and it could also offer travellers better opportunities. Economies around the world point to the fact that mobility in a few years will become one of the world's most important business areas in the future, including: because there are other sectors that are attracted to that industry because there is a simultaneous development. It's incredibly exciting. Norway must also be involved in this business. I personally find it very exciting in aviation, which is likely to be the mode of transport with the least climate and environmental impact in just a few years. It's pretty amazing to think about. Much also suggests that these planes will be cheaper in operation and can provide cheaper fares, and that they will need shorter runways around the country. Then maybe you can imagine a whole new grid in aviation, which might be even more able to compete with trains, buses and cars on the longer distances. We've heard a lot of good saying from the pulpit here already, but Norwegian technology is in the maritime driver's seat, and the maritime industry is doing a lot of good and in front. What I think is an exciting idea is whether we can replace road-hazardous trailers by developing boats that pick up salmon from the seafood facilities and direct the fish on board the train. It is in this digital, technological perspective that future transport solutions are being developed. I think it is very right in what former Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli said about the ability to understand the time we lived in, and made the right decisions. And these are the decisions that we are making now, which are important for the next generation, for the future transport solutions have to apply the new technology, so that we reduce the distances between people and at the same time provide better framework conditions for growth, jobs and settlement throughout the country. And the new technology can actually contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3241	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important and correct interpellation about the government's work on exploiting new technology. We didn't hear much from the Minister of Transport about the government's work right now, but at least we got a promise that this will be an important part of the next NTP. We need a plan of 5G development across the country. We need increased research in the transport sector. We need to focus more on safety and risk, and not least we need even more competence. Feedback to the Transport Committee has been that the share of transport research is low compared to other service areas for which we are responsible. We don't need to put this in the system at all. The Labour Party believes that the State must take even greater responsibility. Market forces alone cannot govern development. We need to have risk assessments and an alternative security. When e.g. the computer system in a hospital is down and the operations are being postponed, it has to be an alternative, and we also have to have that in the transport sector. We look forward to an increased investment in the next NTP, both in research and education, in smart infrastructure, and not least in climate-friendly solutions. Here the transport sector has a great potential, as it is where emissions can really be reduced. Business, politics and the market must play together, and we must find arenas for it. Norway has great opportunities to lead in smart transport solutions. We in the Labour Party wish to welcome an even greater commitment and systematic work. We have to bring the whole country with us, for example. in the case of charging maps, 5G, broadband and emergency networks. It must be put into a system, predictable and secure in areas that are now unsafe, such as: electric aircraft. Our future is full of opportunities. In Trøndelag, courageous state politicians have invested in elves in Trondheimsfjorden. It's caused new businesses to pop up. For example, in my home municipality, it is a company that started with two employees, who sells computer systems to elephants. They now have 25 employees. There is an incredibly high potential for industrial development in both green transport and new digital transport solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3256	It makes me very happy to see an interpellant – and also a minister – showing such commitment to technology in the transport sector. It's not just the future, it's very much here and now. I think back to 2013, when we discussed autonomous driving and more or less it was a little ridiculed. Now we're here today, and that's most topical. New technologies in the transport sector are something we should actually have great expectations of. We are totally dependent on the government being an active driver, and that we also see this again in the upcoming NTP. Intelligent transport systems are in the process of being developed, and at an ever faster pace. It applies both internationally and in Norway, and it applies both to technology, to legal bases and to policies. Norway is at the forefront of the ITS area today. Since 2013, the government and the Storting have been committed to facilitating the relationship precisely to make use of the available technology, but not least to allow us to test out the new one. In Norway, implementation of interoperable ITS services and automated running trials is now under way on the open road. All of this is based on advanced sensor technology, communication and interaction between cars and back systems, and on the processing of huge amounts of data with artificial intelligence. We are seeing a move towards seamless transport, where many modes of transport can be integrated and coordinated. The government's investment in ITS has given Norway a good basis for success. We need understanding for use, and we also need additional access to data. We need an offensive investment of 5G and to use the digital transport network, which we all depend on. And we should have – and we have – high targets for the development of future transport systems. Together, we can develop, and take care of, the road network in a professional way, and we can also help to ensure road users, while at the same time being able to take care of both the environment and the climate. We have enormous possibilities, but we're forced to do this together, and we're also forced to contribute to our business being allowed to participate in this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3269	We have been a lot within the autonomous vehicle today and not least the case of self-driving cars. I have tried myself – that is, it was a self-driving bus that drove back and forth in the Arendal center. It went so far. Arendal is largely a safe city even though some of us probably knew a certain need to be able to want to grab hold of the wheel in between. At least as important a trend as driverless cars are connected cars, i.e. cars that can send off and receive information. When all cars are subsequently connected, this provides the basis for the cars to interact with each other in a completely new way and with other elements of the transport system. This results, among other things, in: the possibility of advanced digital traffic management. I don't mention this to talk about driverless cars in isolation, but to focus on the digital network. We will have a huge need to transport data in the future when everything is connected to everything. The Internet is around us. Cars and different means of transport and dolls, if we're going to call it that, are going to communicate with themselves and with each other. Then we need a very well-developed and fast computer network that is robust and 100 pst. reliable. I don't want to sit in a driverless car that communicates wirelessly when the data connection is broken for 120 km/h. Now, data security, robustness and the development of the network are a major debate for themselves, and this is strictly not sorted by the Minister for Transport either, but by the Minister for Digitalisation. But this is nevertheless central to what we are debating here today – the Internet of Things, how the web is spinning around us so to speak. This must work in order for the transport system to work as well. In 2007, train traffic stopped in Norway because there was a cable fire at Oslo S. It was a reminder of how vulnerable we are. Now, twelve years later, technological development has shot violently, and the kind of vulnerability we saw in 2007 can have even greater and more serious consequences. We have to take this seriously, and we simply have to secure a network that tolerates the violent increase in traffic that we know will come. I would like to thank everyone for a good debate on important issues that concern not only our future but which concern the situation today and how best to plan and organise it for the time we are now going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3282	As the representative Gruvan was in, the digital infrastructure is entirely decisive. So it was so important that we started releasing the 700 MHz frequencies now, so that we could start implementing the 5G before we thought it was possible in the Norwegian network, simply because it makes new technological solutions possible. It happened before the Christian People's Party entered the government, but it still shows that when one decides to exploit the technological solutions that lie there, politics must also find together. The reason why I mention it is what I hear in the article from the Workers' Party. I think it illustrates what quickly becomes our main challenge when we're going to discuss the technological developments of the years that are coming, that's when the Labour Party says we can't leave this to market forces. It's completely blind to hacking into solving these problems without market forces. It's the big drivers of new technology, that's where the investment decisions come, that's what drives the world in many ways. Therefore, we need to regulate adequately, but not unnecessarily. Therefore, we must order and buy and facilitate a large-scale commercial investment in new technology. That's what makes new technologies possible. It also shows the second point, simply how the policy operates when it is designed in its most central area. For what do we do when the taxis are actually out of competition for cars that come and pick you up at the door, where you are in a sofa in the back of the car while the car runs you where you are going? Everyone wants to think that we still have to keep taxis, but it doesn't help if no one is going to use them. What do we do when the heavy duty vehicles no longer have a zero emission on all heavy duty vehicles? Are we talking about freight transfers the same way if it's not pollution from heavy car traffic at all, or do we choose other solutions? What's going to happen to the big, fundamental political debate is whether the policy is going to take on what kind of huge system changes can result from the technology shift we're about to enter. Is it a willingness to be involved and to play it so that Norway will be far ahead, so that we can be involved in and develop what the Labour Party refers to as the market forces, which I refer to as wage-earning Norwegian business? Is that the way we actually contribute to solving our challenges in the infrastructure, in the planning of transport, in the implementation of transport, or do we choose to oppose because the new solutions strike in whole some of the old ones? That's what's going to challenge the policy at its core, if we dare to agree on what tomorrow's solutions to mobility are. I hope we get a bunch of stuff that dares be on that trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3293	After four and a half hours in this chair today, the president feels pretty much like an autonomous president, but it's going that way. The interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3311	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3328	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3340	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3349	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to arrange for the State to lease concessions to the smaller companies.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3382	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the right to operate aquaculture in our common public is limited in time.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct an investigation with a view to imposing a time limit on new authorisations for aquaculture and to return to Stortinget with proposals on how this can be implemented. Authorisations must have a duration and transitional arrangements that provide predictability for investments, innovation and sound operation. Such an investigation should also include an assessment of the duration of already granted authorisations and whether a time limit can be set for them.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3410	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2–5, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 6 and 7, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA Proposal No. 6 and 7 by the Greens. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prohibit dumping in the sea and fjords of lice, chemicals and pharmaceutical products from farms’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to review the damage caused by breeding activities in the marine environment, to implement measures to rebuild reduced populations along the coast, and to step up research in this area significantly. Among other things, (a) the total quantities and concentrations released in prohibitive areas for shrimp and spawning areas shall be systematically reviewed; (b) the fact that lower levels of zooplankton along the coast may be the cause of the absence of migratory fish in the search for food from the fjords; (c) the detailed electronic reporting of wells is required by fishing vessels today. [[shea, haze, cod, mackerel]] All information must be open to the public to control the activity, and (d) a plan for the restoration of coastal shrimp populations which has had negative consequences as a result of breeding activities is promoted.» The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3446	Proposal No. 2-5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the tightening of the use of laxatives in spawning areas currently under consultation also applies to spawning areas.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the current rules on anti-menopausal medicinal products on the basis of the precautionary principle and to tighten legislation that is not in line with them.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests a case to be brought by the Government to prohibit the release of medicinal products from farms which are not explicitly authorised in each farm’s emission permit under the pollution law. In order to take into account the welfare of fish or the spread of infection, a system of rapid authorisation of authorisations may be established where special needs exist.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the damage caused by breeding activities in the marine environment, to investigate what can be done to rebuild reduced populations along the coast, and to step up research in this area significantly.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3487	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting a review of the legislation on the release of lice and medicinal products and ensuring that the legislation reduces the negative impact of breeding activities on fishing and life in the sea. A clearer regulation of emissions of luxuries, chemicals and medicinal products shall also be provided.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3508	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-5, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 6-11, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 12-14, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA Proposal No. 12 and 13, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is only asked to grant new farming concessions based on closed technology’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the farming industry, is asked to submit a plan for the transition to closed technologies in all farms currently operating in open cages.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3544	Proposal No. 14, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the ‘traffic light system’ requires a reduction in the number of fish when increased mortality from all human influences exceeds 10 pst.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3561	Proposal No. 6-11, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government only requests the distribution of new permits to installations without the release of fish, lice, drugs, feed residues, organic waste or greenhouse gases and establishes a plan for existing plants to meet equivalent requirements.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘As soon as possible, the Government requests the labelling or tracing of farmed salmon, so that evacuated salmon can always be traced back to the installation from which it has escaped.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to tighten up the requirements of the traffic light system so that these are in line with the requirements of the quality standard for wild axle’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a regulatory system for the farming industry based on environmental indicators that takes into account all significant local environmental and animal welfare problems arising from today’s farming industry. It must include, inter alia, escapes, discharges of biological waste, copper and leaching chemicals as well as mortality, disease/damage/health and behavioural disturbances for farmed fish and cerebrovascular discharges.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the need to set up new gene banks for endangered wild-tail populations in Norway to ensure that no wild-tail populations are lost.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a total ban on the use of toxic copper impregnation and chitin synthesis inhibitors in the farms that destroy the surrounding marine ecosystems.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3613	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the industry to develop methods for the detection of escaped farmed salmon together with the industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the industry to develop further and improve the traffic light system with several environmental indicators.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the criteria for new allocation rounds with development concessions are presented to the Storting.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and assess a stricter regulation on the use of copper impregnation and chitin synthesis inhibitors in breeding establishments.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the need for re-banking of endangered wild fish stocks and marine trout populations in Norway to ensure that no salmon or sea trout populations are lost.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3657	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3-6, by the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 7, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 3 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan for the re-allocation of allowances from the trawler to the coastal fleet as a priority for Group II, boats below 11 metres which are in the brand register, so that they receive at least 50 pst. share of allowances reallocated.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3687	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a case in which the cod trawl concessions with an offer and processing obligation are terminated and where the associated cod and hake quotas are re-allocated to the coastal fleet. The new allowances shall be non-negotiable and bound to the State or region. The re-allocation of allowances should take a maximum of 15 to 30 years, in line with the commitment Commission’s determination that it is the duration of today’s trawl concessions.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3704	Proposal No. 4 and 5 from Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the offer obligation for the allowances covered by this obligation is converted into universal service until possible closure of the cod trawl concessions’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the processing obligation for the allowances covered by this Regulation is maintained until the cod trawl concessions have ended, if appropriate.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposals subsidized by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3728	Proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how the fishing fleet can ensure stable delivery to the coastal fishing recipients so that year-round operation is possible, inter alia, through the periodicalisation of quotas.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3745	Proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to enforce the obligation system to ensure that these trawls actually deliver fish to local communities in line with the intention of the duty system. The option would be, if not within two years, to return allowances from these companies to the coastal fleet.» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3765	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3770	It's corrected, and that's 78 voices against the proposal and 17 voices for it. The proposal is therefore not adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government to carry out an investigation and assessment of a system of repatriation of fishing rights from the trawl as one of the alternatives to the obligation system in relation to the notification of the quota system.’ The Greens and Reds have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3796	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3812	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No 4, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop the construction of bed places and to increase the daily capacity for mental health protection.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3841	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the number of beds in psychiatry is not further reduced until the Stortinget has addressed a new national health and hospital plan, assuming that this issue is addressed in a thorough and comprehensive manner.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. The centre party and Red have already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3867	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all plans and decisions in health establishments to weaken or reduce district psychiatric centres and/or paediatric psychiatric outpatient clinics to be put on hold until the Stortinge has addressed a new national health and hospital plan.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities are better able to take on the responsibilities they have been given in the field of mental health protection, through good cooperation with the specialist health service, further development of professional competence and strengthening the finances of municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3895	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4 and 5, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set a target of at least 75 pst by 2024. by infants in Norway, have breast milk in line with the Health Directorate’s professional guidelines for infant nutrition and come back to the Stortinget during 2019 with a comprehensive review of measures to reach this proportion of infants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3919	Proposal No. 5 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop cutting the average time spent in postpartum hospitals and instead increase it’. Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3936	Proposal No. 1-3, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all women with childbirth are given the opportunity to stay in the maternity ward in hospital at the time it normally takes to establish breast-feeding, in practice three to five days for the first-born.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that healthcare companies have the formal responsibility for maternity care 1–5. the day after birth. In the event of an early repatriation, health-care establishments must be responsible for the follow-up of the midwife on repatriation.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the earthquake settlement in the municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3972	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e3988	During the debate, Mr Kjerkol presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide a new overall report on quality and patient safety in healthcare services, with concrete objectives and measures followed by annual notifications.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4017	In Case No: 8–10 there is no voting theme. Case No. 11 and 12 are the second processing of legal acts and are subject to legal acts 51 and 52. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4106	The representative of Sheida Sangtarash has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4111	The proposal to stop the closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund has been proposed to the Health and Care Committee. I understand the background to this, as there is a proposal from the Central Party for consideration. But it's over a month. The background to my promoting this proposal together with Audun Lightbakken today is that it is scarcely time, and SV wants to freeze the process of closure immediately. So I ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4116	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4121	It is true that there is a proposal for a representative to be discussed in the Committee not to approve the decision to close the food supply in Kristiansund, as well as some other cut proposals now planned in Health More and Romesdal. It shall be submitted on 7 May and shall appear in the Chamber on 14 May. I found in principle that the presidency has made a wise assessment that it is best to have this committee dealt with together with the proposal that is there. At the same time, we are some of the SV in that it is perhaps this cut-off proposal in Health More and Romesdal that there is great pressure to get planned and implemented. So after an assessment, I would recommend to the Centre to support the SV's proposal for an urgent examination of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4130	The wisdom of the Presidency, to which the representative referred, has come, is that the SV's proposal for a representative is similar to proposal No. 2 in Document 8:79 S for 2018-2019, which is currently being discussed in the Health and Care Committee, and is planned to be submitted on 7 May 2019. There is nothing to prevent SV’s proposal from being dealt with in conjunction with the proposal already under consideration, so that the decisions are taken in good time before the summer. The President proposed that the proposal be sent to the Health and Welfare Committee for consideration. But there's another suggestion, so we're getting a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Alternatively, the proposal by the President and the proposal by the representative Sheida Sangtarash will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4146	The President's motion for a resolution is therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-09.ana.ud381e4189	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
