ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e250	The representative Tor André Johnsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e260	I will, on behalf of the representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Pollestad and myself, present a proposal for a representative on wage moderation for high-wage leaders in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e265	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Cases 1 to 28 will be dealt with as a whole and will apply to the Law Decision 15 until the Law Decision 42.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e586	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 1 up to and including Nos. 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e602	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 5 lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e609	Initially, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, the North and the Samer. Both peoples have the same right and the same right to be able to develop their culture and language. The Constitutional Act § 108 states: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People’s Group.’» In the spring of 2018, there was agreement between the Government and the Sameting to pool most of the appropriations for the Sameting under one budget chapter in the State budget. As part of the consensus, the government has also established a mechanism that provides a forward-looking communication to the Stortinget on common policies every year from 2019. The notification shall mention trends in Sami language, culture and social life. In addition, the provision of services to Sami citizens, the objectives of the government’s common policies and the main challenges to be addressed in the future. This is the message we are handling here today. The consolidation is pleased to collect as many appropriations as possible in one entry. However, it noted in the hearing that any increase in the framework transfer has been earmarked and that the intention to increase the ability of the Sameting itself to prioritize in their opinion was not fulfilled. In addition, there is disagreement between the Government and the Consetation as to whether the appropriations for Sami purposes have received the same wage and price increases as other management. In the consultation, the representatives of the Sameting indicated that since 2013 there has been a systematic development that has led to the failure of Sami communities to participate in the same development as Norwegian communities, due to lower economic assumptions. To this end, the majority of the Committee proposes that the same estimate for price and wage growth be used in the future budget for the Sameting as for the other management. In 2016, the Sami language selection NOU 2016: 18, the heart language, was transferred to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and the Sametinget. It proposes a number of measures to strengthen Sami languages. All the Sami languages are on UNESCO's list of threatened languages. South Sami has very few language users and therefore requires extra attention. The government has therefore asked the government to pay particular attention to Southern Sami languages and the interrelationship between language, culture and nutrition in the follow-up to the Heart Language. On 26 November this year, the Riksrevision presented a study on the right of Sami students to training in and in Sami. The findings show, among other things: the lack of learning material weakens the provision of training, the weakness of distance learning and the lack of Sami teachers. If you're going to be able to lift up the Sami languages, you're going to have to bet on both learning materials, especially digital ones, and training more teachers. Another important factor is that in the context of the municipal reform it was promised, including from the Council of State, that Sami language users should not get worse as a result of changes in the municipal divisions. Nevertheless, we now see examples of people living in new municipalities no longer having the same rights as they had in their old municipalities. Here the state must be conscious of its responsibility and not just point to the municipality as responsible. We see it, among other things. in Tysfjord, where the part of the municipality that has become part of Narvik is no longer a Sami language area, and does not have the same rights as they had before that coercion. Purification is an important Sami industry. A closer look should be made at the problems related to land pressure, predator losses and cross-border grazing. The centre party has called for a comprehensive revision of the reindeer management law. These problems need to be addressed, and the predatory pressure in grazing areas needs to be reduced if we are to be able to meet our obligations under ILO Convention No. 169. In Sweden, five wolves were collected in the domestic pasture last week, and this was absolutely necessary. There are also major challenges in this country, and what happened in Sweden is an example of follow-up. Another serious problem is violence in close relationships. In a study from 2018, 49 pst replied. by Sami women that they have been subjected to violence. It is important that this is followed up, both with research and with acute and long-term measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e635	First of all, I think it is good to note that it is a unanimous committee, now including the Progress Party, which acknowledges the principle that the state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Nordics and Sami, and that both peoples have the same right and claim to develop their culture and language. It is, as I said, in place that a total accumulation now fixes this. It is also positive that we have a new arrangement with the annual report from Sametinget. Now it is no longer just a retrospective announcement The Storting gets debaters, but also a message that looks forward. That's good. It is also good that we have a new budgetary arrangement, where the Sameting itself should have the priorities for the distribution of the economy in the various areas under which the Sametinge decides, although there is now some doubt that the government has followed up – when we saw in the draft budget that the government had prioritised 13 million. kr of the allocation to the language and thus would override the Sameting and break the agreement that the Sameting itself should be in charge of this. Now I am aware that the government has tried to clean up this, but it needed a good e-mail exchange for it to be cleaned up. There is also a record of disagreement on the interpretation of whether the representatives of the Sameting and the Government have agreed, and that the Sameting believes that there has been a lack of dialogue during the preparation of this communication. It appears unnecessary and, to the extent that there are disagreements, it should be made clear in the notification. It should not be that we get this out first in a hearing. The process of cooperation in the preparation of the notification is quite clear that it was complicated and unclear and that the agreed policy adopted by the Sameting is not reflected in the communication. They also say that the Sameting does not share the government's assessment of what is being presented as a central part of the message. I think that is a serious criticism, and we just have to assume that the government is more in control when the next message is to be prepared, so that we let go of these unfinished things, and that we first have to have a hearing in order for us to be able to illuminate it. As the rapporteur pointed out, we also note that during the hearing, there was a strong dissatisfaction with how the government has calculated the wage and price increase towards the Sameting. Such a method of calculation leads to a reduction in large parts of the budget, which is why we are proposing today that the Storting should ask the government in the future budget to base the same estimate for the price and salary growth of the Sameting as for the rest of the administration. I would like to mention the National Audit Office's report and the recommendations they make: information measures, distance learning facilities, provision of services that can provide more teachers, and the development of Sami learning materials are some examples. It is necessary to establish an agreement between Norway and Sweden on cross-border reindeer management. I hope that the Council of State can put strength into it and bring Sweden to such an agreement. It should be possible to do that. The Swedes are a good neighbour, and I hope that – by adding some force and clarity to it – it must be possible to reach such a kind of cross-border agreement. It would be good for everyone if we could get to it. Finally, I just want to show that the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget is proposing 60 million. kr more than the government of the Sametinget in non-euromarked kroner, and that we have prioritised 4 million. kr to the Båstede project above the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e652	Today, we are addressing the big news about Sami languages, culture and social life. The notification is the first submitted under the new scheme, in which the structure of the State budget for the Sameting entries has also changed. These are changes that have been made following the initiative of Sametinget, which is the result of consultations in 2018. I have noticed that the whole thing has not been satisfied with the process around the preparation of this message, and that at several of the points they have different positions from that of the government. I think in many ways it's natural and correct. It signals a will for a driving role on the part of Sameting, and it is in the nature of the matter that not all wishes will be met – at least not at first. The new system, which we are now dealing with, and taking into account, must also find its form, and it is important to gain experience in view of the way forward. I have noticed, for example, that the message has consistently incorporated the Sameness notes on the individual points. This has been done in a significantly more comprehensive and consistent way than we often know from surveys in general. I believe that the communication in this way addresses the intentions underlying the consultation system, namely that, even if you do not agree with everything that is being promoted by the Sameting, this clarification of the Sameeting's position recognises that it is important that these points of view actually appear. This is also the background for government parties choosing to comment on more critical government policies in this area. But some exceptions are of course. One is the point mentioned by the two previous speakers, namely on the method of calculation for the regulation of the budget, after which the Sameting claims to have been suspended. At this point, I think it is necessary to note that the Sameting has not been subject to budgetary mechanisms other than those applicable to the State budget in general, where the annual price increase is corrected after the red tape and efficiency reform. There is therefore no ground for discrimination, and I think it is important to underline that. The budget for the Sameting has increased over recent years and has now risen to 513 million. kr. One of the increases is the strengthening of the allocation to the heart language by 13 million. kr. Language is one of the keys to maintaining Sami culture. It is therefore important in the years that will give priority to this area, as the public inquiry into the heart language describes. The development of teaching materials, the education of teachers, the availability of literature and joint arenas for the use of Sami languages are major and demanding tasks and it will be exciting to follow the Sameting's own priorities in this field. One of the most important political tasks of the Sameting is to outsource the course of Sami art and cultural policy. In its comments on the Communication, the Sameting stresses inter alia: the need to build cultural institutions and infrastructure. It is also reasonable to expect that Sami art and culture have the same opportunities for development as other artistic and cultural life in Norway. This is, of course, easy to agree with, and it is easy to agree with the aims of the whole thing in the big picture. Sami cultural life can show good results and over the years has produced prominent artists in many songs, whether we are talking about the artist Outi Pieski, who is now well represented on the walls of Storting, or about violent Grand Prix songs that are hailed by an overall Norwegian audience. I believe it is important that these artists are also perceived as a natural part of what a diverse Norwegian cultural life has to offer. A solid stand in Sami culture must not stand in the way of being also part of the national stage or instrument. This applies not only to cultural policy but also to policies such as industry, health and education. We must have two thoughts in our head at the same time and see the relationship between what serves the Sami interests and what national instruments we have available in the individual sectors. We must make use of the majority's opportunities in the service of the minority. This is about the recognition of the Sami needs and good organisation to reach them. A new consultation law, which also covers counties and municipalities, is underway. The implementation of this will provide us with new and interesting experience of how this is to be done in practice, at all levels of government. Common policies are in the process of being developed, and through the examination of today's communication, we are taking new steps forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e671	In the spring of 2018, the government agreed with the Sameting to pool most of the appropriations for the Sameting under a single budget chapter and item in the State budget. As part of this consensus, the government has also set up a mechanism to present each spring session with a forward-looking communication to the European Parliament on common policies. The notification shall mention trends in Sami language, culture and social life and the service provision to Sami residents. The notification may set out the objectives of the government in the common policies and what it considers to be the main challenges in the future. The assessments of the pooling shall be presented. The annual report of the pool is still attached to the aggregate notification. The new scheme replaces the scheme of annual wholesale notifications of the activities of the Sameting. The communication does not aim to present the whole of the common policy, but to highlight some trends and challenges. The merger and the government have agreed to raise language as an important overall theme in the year’s communication. The themes raised in the communication will vary from year to year. An important instrument for ensuring good cooperation is language. Maybe our language is what identifies us most as people and where we come from. Therefore, I am pleased that the government facilitates the co-operation to secure and develop its language and to have overall responsibility for following up national and international legal rules for the Sami languages. At the same time, national, regional and local authorities also have a responsibility to give Sami culture good development opportunities. The pooling receives funds from the department that the Sameting itself disposes of for different cultural purposes. This has been followed up, among others. through the Nou Heart Language, where registration of Sami languages has been established in the People's Register. The government will continue to follow up the NOU along with the Sameting. Culture and identity are factors that are important for all groups of society. Increased knowledge of Sami and Sami conditions is an important prevention measure against hate disorders, discrimination and negative attitudes. This government has an overall view of how we can facilitate value creation and employment in all parts of the Norwegian economy. Through its instruments, the Sameting contributes to growth and development, including: in primary, cultural and Sami travel industries. There is no doubt that Norway’s northernmost counties attract more tourists than before. Tourism has become an important source of income for Norway, and it is essential that the North states continue their efforts to market the best of Norwegian nature and culture. The Government will also maintain the consultation system between the Federation and the Government. The consultation mechanism is intended to maintain the right to be consulted on matters which may have a direct impact on the cohabitation of indigenous peoples. It is the Ministry that is responsible for coordinating and facilitating the whole and coherence of policies across sectors and levels of administration. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure that the consideration of co-operation is respected. That being said, it is also important and necessary for municipalities and county municipalities to follow up their obligations towards the Sami inhabitants. It is part of local democracy that this government has committed, and strengthened, to its six years in government. Since 2013, the government has increased the allocations for the Sameting by over 100 million. kr. The 2020 allocation will provide a good framework for the pooling of work next year. An increase of 13 million has been proposed. kr for the follow-up of the heart language. In addition, appropriations for other Sami purposes are increased by 80 million. kr, such as museum buildings, Sami educational materials, reindeer management agreement and an alternative to violent offices with Sami competence. In total, the government proposes a grant for Sami purposes of over 1.1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e692	At first I want to say that the experience of the Sami has become popular is very good. That it's a national pride, and that it's culture that we're now using as symbols for all of Norway, I think is a very happy development. I think there's a lot of people who have the credit for it, but the whole thing's been a very important factor in raising the Sami in a lot of areas. We are now going to deal with this first forward-looking message. There has been a struggle to get new arrangements to look at common policies here in the Storting. SV has agreed with Sametinget that we should have a case that is more similar to the municipal proposition, and that it could come in the spring, presented in parallel there, so that you could see these two documents in the context. It could in a way be a kind of obligatory framework for the economy to be established in the budget, which then comes in the harvest. It hasn't been like that, but the whole thing and the government have agreed on this method that we have now, and then we get to try it out and see how it goes. I'm glad, like others here, that the views of Sameting come out in the message, but they should probably come out even more clearly than they did in this first message. That was the message we received from Sametinget when we had hearings. In addition, I'm probably a little surprised that the majority will not be on the proposal that the same estimate for wage and price growth should be used to base the Sameting as for the rest of the administration. It's a principle, and that's what the Storting should say, so that we agree on it and base it on it. The budget for the Cohesion Fund has been strengthened, but SV has also strengthened the budget for the Cohesion Fund in its proposal, by 20.5 million. NOK, in addition to decommissioning 5 million. kr extra to Båstede under frame 2 on the cultural budget. There are many people who have spoken about the heart language and the follow-up in language. It's probably also of the things I'm a little surprised at, that the majority, that is, the government fraction, will not be able to refer to the Riksrevision report that came. It is not part of the message, but it came during the processing. It has shown some very important findings, and these are the findings that the Sameting has told us about in quite a number of hearings over time here. When you know that there are so many shortcomings in this field with regard to both teaching materials and teachers and distance learning and a whole range of things, the Stortinget must recognise that language training in Sami is about basic human rights, the right to its language, its culture and its way of life. The Minister of Knowledge, who is not here, must take this seriously, and the Minister of Coordination, who is sitting here, must look at how this can be followed up, because the report of the National Audit Office was strong, and that must be our duty. SV has its own comments on the reindeer, because the reindeer is the basic industry of the Sami culture. There's been some issues where you've had to take the reindeer down for environmental reasons, but where you've done the reduction in reindeer numbers in such a way that you knock out some of the smallest units. That's very unfortunate, because you need a lot of practitioners if you're going to keep a culture up and not just be left with the big ones. In addition to that, we have addressed this relationship related to the NIM report of 2018, the serious findings of violence in the Sami environment. It is important to stress that municipalities report back that they are now in such an economic straits that crisis centres are getting worse around. There is very little new in the work to be done now, both with research and with the emergency aid that needs to be done. It is the municipalities and, where appropriate, the state that are responsible, not the Sametinget. So what we do in other areas is also important for the Sami population as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e711	The size has a great propensity to cover up in terms of the Sami population. Very much is fortunately corrected. This call for proposals will help to ensure that current and forward-looking policies are on track. The Christian People's Party fought for many years to get the whole budget framework in place, and I'm glad this came into place last year. Decisions are made best and most effectively by those who wear the shoes. It gives the best use of resources and gives the Sameting the ability to give itself a complete priority. However, we note that there are still some disagreements about the process, but in general we believe that we need to conclude that the most important steps have been taken, and we are pleased about that. Furthermore, it is gratifying that there is such broad consensus that language conservation is an important field of action. Language carries not only practical communication but also full culture, understanding of life, nutrition and tradition. It is important and necessary to further strengthen training and professional environments in recognition of their small and vulnerable nature. Unfortunately, violence and abuse are a serious problem, including in the Sami environment. We believe that the serious findings made in research reports show with all possible clarity that this needs to be given particular attention in the national action plan against violence in close relations, which the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e722	Today, the Stortinget deals with the very first forward-looking communication on Sami language, culture and social life. In the spring of 2018, the government agreed with Sametinget to collect most of the appropriations for Sametinget as a whole. As part of this consensus, the government has also set up a mechanism to present each spring session with a forward-looking communication to the European Parliament on common policies. The communication does not aim to present the whole of the common policy, but to highlight some trends and challenges. This message has a rather unique form. The synthesis has come up with its assessments in a number of places in the text, as comments. Many of the recordings of the Sameting are also included in the message text. In addition, the Sameting’s own annual report is attached. We've been on the government's side trying to stretch far as we're now letting Sameting's assessments come up this way. It's completely new, and this has been a test year. The merger and the government have agreed to raise language as an important overall theme in the year’s communication. In 2019, we have marked the UN's International Year of Population. Sami language is important for each language user, for the Sami population and for the development of the Sami society. Sami languages are not just about communication but are closely related to Sami identity, cultural heritage and belonging. The government is giving priority to the work on the Sami languages. Since 2013 we have strengthened the Sametinget by over 100 million. kr. By 2020, we have proposed an increase of 13 million in appropriations. kr to follow up NOU 2016: 18 – The heart language. It is important that the people elected to the Sameting decide for themselves how the funds are used. For this reason, I would like to stress that the Sameting is free to give priority to actions within its own framework, in line with the intention of the new Financial Instrument. In the State budget for 2020, the Government proposes a total allocation for Sami purposes of more than SEK 1,1 billion. kr. In this Communication, the Government has pointed out the large shortage of Sami-language staff in several sectors. All higher education institutions providing education in and in Sami – Sami University, North University and University of Tromsø, Norwegian Arctic University – have the capacity to include more students in their Sami language study programmes. Recruitment is a difficult field, and the reasons why someone chooses or chooses to study in Sami are, of course, complex. The government is betting on recruitment for Sami language studies through its own recruitment tools. In addition, the government’s commitment is demonstrated by the fact that students taking Sami teacher training are subject to several arrangements for the cancellation of student loans from the Loan Fund. These students can cancel between $50,000 and $20,000 of the study loan. The government agrees with the Sameting that the scientific communities in southern Sami and lulesamic are particularly vulnerable. In the Ministry of Knowledge's budget for 2020, the Government has therefore proposed to allocate 5 million. kr to the University of Nord for the long-term recruitment and professional development of these professional environments. I want to use this opportunity to also focus on another important issue of common policy. The majority decided on 9 May 2019 to send Prop. 116 L for 2017-2018, Changes in the Law of Association etc. [[Consultations]] On the part of the government, we have followed up the Storting decision. On Friday 29 November, the Ministry, at its hearing, sent a proposal to legislate general rules on consultations in a separate chapter of the Law on Social Security. At the same time, at the hearing, we sent a draft guide on consultations between municipalities and county councils with Sami interests. The hearing period is 29 February 2020, and I hope that we get many and useful input into the matter. I hope this message can contribute to an interesting and forward-looking debate at Stortinget on all the Sami issues – both where we agree and where we disagree. Then the message served its purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e752	On 1 December, the municipality of Tana sent an e-mail to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, where they referred to a meeting with the Sametinget, where the Sametinget stated that they were not free to dispose of the so-called heart language funds in the next year's budget. It was December 1st. It was not until 5 December that KMD replied to the municipality of Tana that they did not formally lead to the use of the funds allocated to the Sameting. The follow-up to the heart language is mentioned only as part of the justification for the draft budget. And then we're going to write another one: ‘The Ministry has therefore communicated to the Administration of Sameting that the Ministry will not give any guidance on how to use the funds for the heart language.’ On the same day, on December 5, a few hours later, while we have the municipal debate here, Sametinget, at Aili Keskitalo, writes: I do not know any administrative correspondence about this. If there is a need to clarify the budget, it would be reasonable to do so before the Sameting has its budgetary procedure. What does the Council of State think about this kind of communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e770	I think that is unfortunate and that there was a clumsy wording in the state budget. At the same time, in my contribution to the debate on the budget on 5 December, I made it clear that the Sameting was completely free to use these funds – and of course they do – but the increase is justified by a desire to bet on following up the heart language. It's like with a lot of other transfers that we make to the local government sector otherwise, by comparison, we justify an increase, but it's up to the municipalities themselves, and in this case the Sameting, to find out how they want to use the funds. It shall be duly clarified now. And then I hope we let go of those rounds again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e777	I get to thank the Council of State for an unusually honest answer. That was a clumsy wording, and we can agree on that. There has been in the contributions here the so-called bi-dividual distribution of the budget that the Sameting has received, i.e. with wage and price growth only in one part, not in the other part, which relates to the appropriations for purposes outside the operation of the Sameting. Would it not lead to the other Sami purposes for which the Sameting will then be granted, if one ignores the operation of the Sameting, which has gained wage and price growth? Is it true that the whole thing is wrong when they claim that the other purposes will be followed when they do not receive wage and price increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e784	The operating part of the Sameting budget is price adjusted; the grant part is not. It is similar to very many other subsidy items in the State budget under the budgets of other ministries. It is simply about the fact that the action space is tighter. Then it has been important for us to make sure to adjust the operating price, while the subsidy items continue in nominal terms. So here the whole thing isn't treated in any other way than other parts of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e789	I Prop. 96 S for 2016–2017, Changes in the municipal structure, writes the government: ‘The government is committed to maintaining in Sami language and, in its work on the municipal reform, it has taken the view that Sami language users should not suffer as a result of changes in the municipal breakdowns.’ Now we see that this is not right. Among other things, Tysfjord was divided into two. One half goes to a municipality within the administrative area. Those who go to Narvik are no longer part of the administrative area and lose many of their rights. In an answer to me, the Council of State says that this is the responsibility of the municipality, and that it is those who have to follow this up. Does the Council of State really believe that the municipalities will be left with both the responsibility for following up this and the possible costs of doing so when the State has made this breakdown? Is it not natural for the State to follow up on these users who are outside the administration, so that they can be promised equal rights after the merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e799	I'm very pleased with this question. We have a system, and I'm assuming that the representative is very familiar with where the municipality decides if they want to be part of the Sami administration area. If they wish, they also receive grants to operate this. Narvik Municipality, run by the Workers' Party and the Center Party, doesn't want that. I guess the representative has good contact with his own party in Narvik and knows why it is, but it is the municipality that decides to apply for such a connection. There have been meetings, both from Sametingets and from our side, with the municipality, and they don't want it. On the other hand, what they've received from the state, because we're following the promises we've given, is a contribution of 2.5 million. kr to follow-up of this area next year. We do what we can from the state, but we have a system in which the municipality itself decides, within its right of self-determination, whether they want to be part of the Sami administrative area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e804	Of course, the municipality has to decide for itself, but I expect the state to follow up on the financial expenditure that the municipality receives if they choose not to be part of the Sami administrative area. So to something completely different. I am very surprised that the government parties do not comment on the national audit report we received on 26 November, pointing out that there are major shortcomings in the provision of distance learning, and major deficiencies in the teaching materials in Sami, that there is a demanding and great lack of competence, and that there must be follow-up with teacher students. They make a number of recommendations that government parties have chosen not to go into. Then I ask the Council of State: What parts of the national audit report do the Council of State think it is necessary to go into?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e811	So just to end up with Narvik, it's like the government's following up. The centre party and the working party locally do not. So if you think that the investment in Sami is important, you have the right to manage municipalities like Narvik through elections and can do something about it. Then we're going to follow up on the areas that we can. With regard to the national audit report, we follow up on all parts of a report from the Riksrevision when we get it. It is quite right, as has been said, that serious shortcomings are identified in individual areas. I have explained how, in particular, we will follow up on the Ministry of Knowledge budget next year so that we can ensure both recruitment, access to digital tools and access to enough students to open places of study. So here it's already doing a job, but we're obviously coming back to the Stortinget to answer the report in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e818	Violence is married in a society. We have received the report from the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, NIM, which is very serious. Of course, Sameting may be responsible for both influence and research and such things, but the acute offer to those in need of a crisis centre offer is the responsibility of the municipalities and therefore the responsibility of this minister. Several of those municipalities are now alive to end up in ROBEK, and some have ended up in ROBEK. They cut things, and if we look at the numbers of the crisis centers, it's easy to see that there's been a lot of cut. The distance has been long, and the competence is low. SV has now put forward a proposal for a state funding back of 80 p.m., since it cannot be that it is not predictable for all those who are subjected to violence that they may have a nearby crisis centre offer. Will the Council of State look at changing the financing mechanism to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e823	First of all, I fully agree with the representative's description of violence in close relationships as a major social problem. We know that it's a lot related to the Sami community, and that's what we're dealing with in the consultations we have with the Sameting. On the government side, we are now working on creating a new action plan to combat violence in close relations. We're going to follow up on the Sami in a special way, and we're also going to consult the Sameting on how and with what measures we're going to work on this, because that's important. The crisis centre offer is a statutory task for municipalities. It is the responsibility of the municipalities, and I expect them to take that responsibility. There is no reason to change that device. When you have to follow up a case in this room, it is very easy to say that now the state has to rule. I trust the municipalities will do this. They know their inhabitants and know how to organize this. Finally, fortunately, there are very many fewer people on ROBEK now than when SV put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e834	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e841	This is a Communication on trends in Sami languages, culture and society, the service provision of Sami citizens and what are the main challenges ahead. I see that language is an overarching theme in the message for this year, and that's why I take the word. The Health and Welfare Committee was on its way to Finnmark in the fall. There we got particularly good information about the language challenges for the Sami population and their access to equivalent health and care services. The Sami population is experiencing – this is also reflected in the message – problems in meeting the health and care services. They experience linguistic barriers, that there is difficulty in investigating, diagnosing and treating, and that this is actually a risk to patient safety. There is a lack of knowledge of health and care services about the culture of the Sami population and their understanding of disease and treatment options. The fact that the health services have a staff with language and culture skills is absolutely essential to ensure an equivalent health supply to the Sami population. The Health Service Act also stresses that healthcare professionals should ensure that the individual patient has an extended right to use Sami language in the specialist services and that it is ensured. What was my opinion when we were travelling in Finnmark was that there was a gap in understanding between health care providers and what they reported in the municipalities. In the municipalities we heard that there were still major challenges associated with meeting. The interpreter service was not good enough. This was the case in the municipal health service, but also particularly with regard to the health service. When calling AMK in emergency situations, it was not sure to meet people who could speak their own language. But the health service told us that these were good things, there were things in the care. So here one has to go in and be much clearer to the health care unit, because it's actually not good enough today. Another problem is that older people with Sami languages may lose their Norwegian language when either gets old or sick. There is a problem in hospitals, and there may also be a problem in hospitals. Then it's an extra bad situation that you don't have a health service that can speak. Since no one has mentioned it, I would say that it is very positive that a now is going to receive a Sami nurse training in Kautokeino.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e857	The Workers' Party is committed to facilitating Sami language and culture. I'm from Finnmark and I think it's very positive, among other things. on the cultural front. There's a lot of people fronting this. Sami kindergartens are being established, and it's doing a lot of good around the municipalities. It is the municipalities and county councils that are responsible for the language according to the Law on Community Law. The funds to be used for this purpose are obtained from the Sametinget to continue bilingualism in the administrative area, where Sami and Norwegian are to be equal. This is a very important matter. It is important for Sami to be a common language. It's important in municipal administration. It is important that all forms are given when, for example: come to a municipal house, is in Sami. All parts of the administration shall be able to provide these services in two languages. The municipalities involved have large costs. The messages I get from them are that the grant you get from the Sameting does not fully cover the costs. This makes the offer suffer. I hope this hall will look at this. We need to find good solutions for the municipalities and provide the necessary resources for the Sameting to compensate for the municipalities and county councils that provide all administration in two languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e868	I'm proud to live in Finnmark. Unfortunately, I'm not the same – I would like to be – but I have a granddaughter who is the same, and she's going to school now and wants to learn Sami. She doesn't, because you don't have teachers who can give her the lessons she wants. She has got her butt and is very proud of it and uses it with joy. Sami communities are often bilingual, and it takes a little extra money to get this done. We have heard that some parents find it difficult to demand money in order to learn well enough Sami, because often there are not enough teaching materials and not enough teachers that I told them about. Having enough learning material takes a lot of money, and I don't think you've managed to get enough of it. After all, I heard that the Council of State said that you should increase by even more, but at the same time you say that you have to give priority. Very often when you prioritize, there are other things that are given priority before, at least in coastal municipalities. I live in a coastal community that has not focused so much on Sami, and it may be because of things that have happened many years ago. She with whom I live had to go to boarding school to learn Norwegian. It wasn't like that she could learn Sami, so she can't Sami. So there's a lot of things that make it look like it's now. But now that people want to learn Sami, you're proud of that culture, you have a good sense of self on all the things that have to do with the Sami, I don't think there's got to be any means to get this done. I could have said more, but I think I'll finish there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e879	First, the follow-up to the Riksrevision report and the Nou Heart Language: there is no doubt that it will require a considerable effort from several departments in order to get the necessary work in place. This presupposes, in future budgets, that sufficient resources are made available to develop both learning materials and to train the necessary staff to fulfil the required roles in the future. Then we can discuss whether that money should be earmarked or not, but what we need to be sure about is that those who are going to do this have the resources to do so, so that it is possible, and also that you have the capacity in the production system of teaching materials, which I know has been a bottleneck before, that the government is looking at it and how it can be arranged. It is necessary because these are vulnerable languages, and there are vulnerable cultures. That is also why I am very concerned about the offer given to those who are exposed to violence, sheep. In a vulnerable culture, it's enough to hide such things perhaps even more important to the one being hit, because it's easy to hit back on everyone, and if you're pushed up a little bit against the wall otherwise, it's easy that such things happen. That is why I get a little worried when the Council of State is very general about this, because it is necessary to focus specifically on this issue, that there are crisis centres nearby, and that those crisis centres – and this may also apply to Oslo – have both information material and competence in Sami language and Sami culture. That's absolutely necessary. Nordic research has a report on the crisis centre offer, which came now in the autumn, which points to some of this. It is not so important if the Council of State believes that the municipalities can afford this. So when we look at the development of the crisis centre supply, there's more and more between them, and there's very different quality on them. Then it is not that the State can discharge the responsibility of ensuring that anyone who is exposed to violence has an available offer. That's what we're doing, and then none of us can kind of marry forever and always with the funding model we've chosen, because we've chosen it for completely different reasons. It must be the goal that everyone who needs the help of a crisis centre gets it, which is the governing force for the funding models we choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e888	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e905	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a sequence change of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e912	The Committee has examined proposals from those representatives dealing with the cessation of the planned sale of the islands of the inner Oslofjord by Stadsbyg. A proposal for a decision of a majority committee consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party is proposed. The word is: ‘The government is asking for a review of the country’s property to be disposed of, in particular with regard to the properties of interest with regard to the possibilities of outdoor life and/or cultural history of the general public, and for drawing up a plan on how the rights of all persons and/or the protection of such property are best safeguarded.’ The Committee has received an evaluation of the proposals from the Council of State, explaining inter alia: that, since there is no concrete State need for the islands referred to, nor is there any other State business wishing to assume the administrative responsibility, State Building was authorised to engage in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on the sale of the islands. This applies to Pink Island, Lindøya, Nakholmen and Heggholmen. As you know, Oslo does not want to buy the islands in this round. An overall committee considers it important to keep the islands in public ownership, whether with the State or with the Municipality of Oslo, if an acquisition agreement can be concluded with the municipality. The centre party believes that it makes sense to have a survey of properties that fall outside the main purpose of State Building and are therefore considered to be sold. We also want to stress that it is important that these types of properties remain in public ownership, and by ensuring that they are publicly available. With that, I would like to recommend the Committee's recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e928	It was with great pleasure that we could read that the Council of State took the sense and said clearly what she had obviously intended for a long time, namely that the islands of the inner Oslofjord should not be disposed of at the market price, as the offer was to the Municipality of Oslo when Stadsbyg entered into negotiations with the Municipality of Oslo. But it must be allowed to point out that the Council of State could have been clearer earlier, so that the unrest surrounding the sale of the islands did not have to create noise in Oslo. We who live in Oslo have little access to land along our coast compared to other coastal municipalities. When State Building engages in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on the basis of selling the islands at market prices, it is not strange that the municipality of Oslo will not buy It is strange that the Council of State did not see this turmoil coming and therefore gave State Building a different mandate than to sell the islands at market prices initially As a government council, it must be allowed to use your head and not just the calculator. It was nice that the Council of State woke up when we announced that in Oslo we do not find ourselves losing access to free space. But the Council of State was able to clarify this earlier, for example. already when State Building said they had to go back to the State Council to discuss the way forward. We were impatient and made clear with our proposal. I think it is great that the response came so quickly, yes, already on the morning quask before we were able to promote the announced proposal. It is important that these types of state properties remain publicly owned and are therefore publicly available. That is why we want the government to provide an overview of the properties that are being sold, primarily to ensure systematic work on how the rights of all persons and/or the value of such properties are best respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e948	Allemannsrechten stands strong in Norway. We're going to take care of it, and we're going to make it possible for everyone to experience both nature and outdoor life. The state is a large property owner with many different types of properties and owns them, among other things. through State Building. In order to ensure that the properties owned by the country are adapted at all times to the needs of the country, ongoing assessments are made as to whether the properties should be sold. If there is no longer a need to own the properties, the resources used for managing the properties can also be reduced and the sales revenue can be used for other, more priority, purposes. If it is a question of selling properties that are free areas, open-air areas or have cultural historical values, the consideration of the public interest will also be assessed before sale, including the assessment of who might be a current buyer of the properties. For many properties, municipalities may be as good a owner as the State in order to safeguard the public interest. As for the islands of the inner Oslofjord, they could have been managed in such a good way by the Municipality of Oslo, which also manages some of the other islands. But I also record that the Municipality of Oslo has had no desire to take over them. When it was clear that the municipality of Oslo would not buy them, the government in the media stressed that it was not appropriate to sell them to others. I am a little surprised at this matter, because it has never been planned to sell these islands to private operators, as the Workers' Party has tried to make it in the representative's proposal. Before the Workers' Party went up to this pulpit and promoted the proposal for a representative, it was already possible to read in Today's Business that it was not appropriate to sell the islands to anyone other than the Municipality of Oslo. I therefore believe that this proposal belongs to the category ‘good ideas that should have been checked a little further’. The second proposal in the case concerns an overall review of all the country's properties to be sold. This task is already being carried out on an ongoing basis, which is why we do not believe there is a need for such an overall review. The touching care that we were just a few weeks ago, among other things. be able to see from the Centre Party, which would have a less state bureaucracy, become quite hollow when one also tries to oblige the departments and agencies to do the same work twice. I didn't think it was like that, but they're asking if it's maybe what the opposition thinks when they call for a trust reform in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e959	I agree with the representative from the Labour Party who says that initially the government should have checked this first. That the matter arouses interest is not so strange, because this is the sale of some pearls where there is little area. I have put forward proposals to legislate all-man rights, and I will do so again, because that is absolutely necessary. You want to buy and sell some of these very important properties, which are covered by the Beach Act and the All-men's Law today, but we know that there is a strong pressure on it. I do not buy the argument that the state cannot take responsibility for owning any of these properties and properly manage them for the benefit of the public. It's not necessarily a task for the state to sell absolutely everything it owns. It may be that the state owned a little more of these properties — and keep them — so that they were really available to the public. In the interior of Oslofjord we know what pressure it is on the beach area. That there is a great deal of commitment when the government deals with such thoughts, I don't think you should be so surprised. I am very pleased that the matter has landed as it has done, but there is absolutely a need to go through what the state has of property, and what it has planned to sell. We need to control that, because that's our common values.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e966	The starting point for this case is a little difficult for me to understand. As far as I am aware, it has never been appropriate to sell free space on the islands to private people. State buildings have proposed direct sales to the Municipality of Oslo, which naturally owns these types of areas elsewhere in the municipality. Pink Island, Lindøya, Nakholmen and Heggholmen are state owned and managed by Stadsbygg. The islands are important free areas for the population of Oslo and have, in addition, approx. 600 fixation conditions for cabins. The regulation plan for Bleikøya, Lindøya and Nakholmen was adopted in 2018. The purpose of the plan is to safeguard the public interest and to make the islands more accessible to the population of Oslo. At the same time, the plan shall safeguard the interests of cabin owners and protect nature reserves and open air areas. These properties are outside the core business of State Building, which is to provide premises for state enterprises. Oslo Municipality owns the Lang Islands, Main Island, Gressholmen and Ramberg Island, which have many common features with the islands owned by the State. In a letter dated 1 November 2018 to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, State Building recommended a direct sale to the Municipality of Oslo. The Ministry agreed to this in a letter of 4 January 2019. State buildings have not received a response to this enquiry, and there has therefore not been any debate, as the representative of the Workers' Party seems to believe. I would like to stress that it has never been relevant for the government to put the eyes out for sale in the market. That the matter got such an angle when it was mentioned in today's business in May of this year, they get to pay for it. State buildings also manage other properties with open-air and cultural interests. I believe that the public's access to these properties can best be ensured by municipal ownership, and that State-building can also assess direct sales to the municipalities concerned in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e977	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e994	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1001	The Committee has examined a proposal for a representative to take better care of natural diversity and important Norwegian nature. The rapporteur wishes to thank the Committee for its good and effective cooperation in both this and the previous cases. A total of six minority proposals are promoted in this position. The proposers address important issues relating to the loss of natural diversity and show, among other things, that: to the International Natural Panel report on the loss of natural diversity in the world. It is extensive, and it affects all of us to varying degrees, but no one is left untouched. There is also evidence that good and strong environmental policies need to be pursued in several areas, both in terms of natural degradation and in terms of man-made climate change. The Committee received an assessment of the proposals from the Council of State and a hearing was held in the case at the beginning of November. An overall committee agrees that degradation and loss of biodiversity are one of the main challenges in today’s society. It also refers to the nature diversity law, which was adopted ten years ago, and it was already recognised that it was important to preserve biodiversity around us. An overall committee also believes that knowledge is the most important tool we have for good and wise administration in the public sector, including in the municipalities. There is a need to strengthen the basis of knowledge-based natural management, and it is very important that we in the future be able to provide good training that ensures the need for competence in administration. Knowledge must be in place, and that applies both in the municipalities and elsewhere. Municipalities have an important role to play through their spatial planning and through their responsibility for climate and environmental protection. The Committee believes that this responsibility must be borne in mind by the municipalities, but there are different solutions to it. The central party believes that municipalities must have knowledge and resources, and we believe it is more important to build it up than to submit more reporting requirements and objections. The centre party also believes that the degradation of food soil is problematic, and has included it in its comments. We believe that active management of agricultural soils, cultural landscapes and forest areas throughout Norway is also essential for ensuring our diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1018	I would like to start by saying that we also refer to remarks in connection with the revised soil protection strategy for the 2019 state budget. It proposed to ask the government to investigate and present a new and more offensive soil protection target in force from 2020. We believe that the state has a special responsibility to help prevent unnecessary degradation of food soil, and needs offensive thoughts and actions to prevent this. We have to recognise that the municipalities have the primary responsibility, through the Planning and Building Act, for the management of the areas and natural resources in the municipality, and we believe that they are taking good care of this. We are all concerned that we should conduct a responsible natural and environmental policy based on sustainability and the precautionary principle. The municipalities have the best overview of their areas, at least largely, and it is important that the municipal plans take into account the protection of food soils, open air areas and other valuable natural areas in each municipality, because of course it is different from what it looks like across the country. There is a need to have strong environmental authorities, sectoral authorities, municipalities with good environmental competence and capacity, and that municipalities both have and will contribute to land management that ensures sustainable management of nature. At the same time, we have to realize that something needs to be built, but you don't have to have industrial spaces and residential spaces on the best food soil. In my view and in the view of the Workers' Party, that is not necessary. And then we all understand that in larger expansions, perhaps especially infrastructure expansion, like for example. railway, it may be difficult to avoid all food soils for obvious reasons. But that's the exceptions. I think we're going to do a lot of work to take care of the food soil and other types of vulnerable nature that we have around in Norway. We'll all be good at that. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1029	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1034	The government has launched a series of processes to strengthen the knowledge base on environmental, climate and natural disasters. Work has also been started on holistic management plans for nature. Right means that good planning is the key to preserving climate and environmental considerations. Work on improving the knowledge base is important in this context. However, setting requirements for new, comprehensive plans and reports is not the way to go. It is better to ensure the quality of the plans that municipalities are already required to create. In order to improve competence and planning, the government has worked systematically to strengthen dialogue between municipalities and sectoral authorities in planning processes, including: to ensure that climate and environmental considerations are disseminated as early as possible in planning processes. Here are the planned forums for which the county councils have been given responsibility, very important. Good planning must be based on strong self-government and local democracy, in cooperation with the competent professional community in the municipalities. Local government reform and increased emphasis on strengthening planning skills in municipalities are important in this work. The government follows up the evaluation of the planning part of the planning and building laws and actions, as I understand, the need for better coordination between the planning and building laws and other sectoral laws, such as: natural disasters. Since 2013, the government has been actively improving the practice of the counterinstitution. National expectations for regional and municipal planning, as agreed by Royal Resolution 14 May 2019, provide an overview of the national priority policy to be used for municipal planning. There are indications for climate management, major natural disasters, open air areas and overarching green structures in planning. The local self-government shall be strong. Therefore, it is important that municipalities show how they take into account their state interests in their plans. For the Right, it is important that the government will continue its efforts to improve counter-signalling practices, in line with, among other things. the recommendations contained in the report of the National Audit Office. This will contribute to faster planning processes and to better planning as a basis for sustainable land management. KOSTRA figures show that work on better counter practices has produced results. The number of planes met with countersigns has decreased since 2013, and as of November there have been 144 countersigns in the government. About 30 of them have dealt with natural disasters as contradictions. In approx. half of these cases have been settled in whole or in part. This means that the Ministry makes a good health assessment, with a strong emphasis on the nature diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1055	Several of the issues we are dealing with today show that parts of the opposition are very concerned about a development that does not take place. Whether it is for islands to go from public to private hands, which is not the case, or for large-scale farming, which is also not the case, a number of proposals are at least being promoted to prevent such development. We have faith in local democracy. The Progress Party believes that elected politicians locally in the municipalities are those who are best able to make assessments and make decisions regarding the development of their own municipality. We have had a development under this government that has gone more towards the fact that the municipalities themselves are to govern their areas, and away from state regulations, and that is a recipe for success. It's not like you're doing it, for example. have built down the food soil after we have released the municipalities more freely. The opposite has happened. It was under the previous government that it was built down food soil to a large extent, which this government slowed down very quickly. In fact, the last few years have seen an increase in the protection of food soils. So the worry is probably somewhat exaggerated here. I would also like to draw up an example from Drammen, where I come from, where the municipality without state leadership and state regulation has made sure to convert the built-up area and inaccessible areas into open-air areas and take care of that diversity. I believe we should have confidence that the municipalities are the ones that are best able to take these decisions without more state regulation, because we see that it has worked better than the policy that was in force before this government took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1068	The loss of biodiversity, by nature, is a threat to our livelihoods as much as the threat of climate change. That is the background to this proposal. The laws of nature that govern this care very little about politics, whether we feel it is urgent or not. There's a process going on. The question is, are we going to take this seriously or not? In making decisions in this area, it is absolutely necessary to have the expertise and the knowledge that must be the basis for making the right decisions, including locally. Unfortunately, this is the case, and studies have shown that this competence is too limited in the administration of municipalities today. The EVAPLAN study shows this. The Council of State refers to the study in the budget proposal. It's important. It is also about the fact that once you have swallowed up the opposition institute, you have no idea what nature values are going to be lost. You just don't know, because you haven't mapped it. That is why we propose that both the objections which are not raised should be justified – that is what the Workers' Party is proposing – that we have to have an area account, and that the municipalities should be required in the Municipal Council Plan for Nature Diversity and Mapping and also value the open air areas. More competence is needed in the municipal sector too, and we have proposed in the budgets that we ensure that there is competence in place. So this is the objectivity. The National Audit Office has produced a report this autumn, which states that once the county council members have been signalled to tighten up, important regional interests are being affected, but greater emphasis must be placed on local freedom of action. And the issue of the threshold to promote objections has been raised and they are better justified than before, the ministry takes fewer objections. That means that important nature is lost. You know that, and you do it with your eyes open. The Court of Auditors says: «Too narrowing may result in insufficient care for the interests to be safeguarded by the institution of opposition and in a breach of national objectives.» It's in the Riksrevision's report; it's not something I've downloaded from SV's program. When we know how important it is that we take care of it – because it is partly irreparable if the damage has happened – I think it is quite constructive that the government is not included in the proposals that SV is promoting in this position. I'm taking up all of those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1084	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1089	The forests, the mountains, the heaths, the fjords and our archipelago are sources of joy for hundreds of thousands of people every day. Nature, not least near nature, is a unique quality of living in Norway. Easy access by nature provides good health, belonging, great natural experiences and increased knowledge about yourself and about nature. In addition, nature on land and at sea is important in itself. There lives almost all the other species on the globe, all the ecosystems we depend on, all the way down to the tiny micro-organisms in the rich soil that we cultivate, and that nature has spent thousands of years making. Today we have a natural crisis with documented, massive loss of species. Climate change is one reason, but the main reason is that we humans are taking up more and more land. We displace animals and insects. We eat, build down, use up their habitats. Just like food, nature is also being built down piece by piece, piece by piece, and divided. Every time local politicians build on the ground instead of continuing, it becomes a little more difficult to achieve national, common nature and climate goals. Every time the state adds a new multifield highway through wetlands instead of improving the path we have, Norway disappears a little of what makes Norway one of the world's best countries to live in. Nature is difficult to rebuild for our kids and our grandchildren. So in our alternative state budget, we're going to be 2.5 billion. kr more than the government of nature protection, inter alia. means of employing climate and environmental advisers in all municipalities. Municipalities are crucial in the fight to resolve the natural and climate crisis. The Greens are pleased with the initiative of the SV and we support their proposals. But today's land policy cannot prevent the degradation of irreplaceable nature. We have to completely change the way we think about land use and requirements before degradation. We believe that all Norwegian municipalities must introduce their own natural resources, with national limits for natural losses and objectives for restoration. A principle of spatial neutrality should be introduced – that natural or agricultural areas that are re-disposaled are to be replaced by other areas that can provide the same natural values for equal sized areas. We will work out a reward scheme for municipalities, landowners and others that restore valuable nature. I will come back to this in a representative proposal that I will be promoting in the new year. Finally, I would also like to say that Minister for Climate and Environment Elvesuen has previously stated that it was a loss to move land issues from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the multiplicity of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation with a lot of tasks. I agree with that, and that is something I hope the government will also want to look at more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1104	We all agree that the loss of natural diversity, climate change and soil protection are major challenges that require long-term action. Then, municipal and regional planning is an important tool for meeting these challenges. The government is making a great promise of knowledge for Norwegian nature. By 2020, we're spending 110 million. kr for the mapping of nature and for the ecological base map. Good planning skills in municipalities are important for the preservation of nature and the environment. Many municipalities with few inhabitants have little planning capacity. The community reform will therefore provide greater and better professional environments. A new report shows the need for doubling the number of places of study in planning. We follow from the government's side up the report in line with the Stortingen request decision No. of 708 of May 2017. Change in land use is the greatest negative impact factor for natural diversity on land. The re-disposal of cultivated land has been two consecutive years below the objective set by the Storting. Municipal land accounts can be a useful tool to get an overview of developments, but among other things. because no standard land accounting methodology has been developed, it is not appropriate to impose this on municipalities. I am positive that the municipalities make thematic community plans for natural diversity, but I also believe that the municipalities themselves should choose how they get the best overview of their own nature and development. In 2014, the government started the project Monitoring and Valuation of Outdoor Areas. I do not believe that there is a need to make demands on the municipalities about this, since most municipalities have already done the job. Then it is that the ministry always justifies decisions on objections. Therefore, I do not believe that there is a need for a separate provision on this in the Planning and Building Act. Rounded about objections were first sent out by former Environment Minister Bård Vegard Solhjell from SV. Circularly, opposition practices are being tightened up. This government has strengthened the leadership, and I have asked the county officials, by letter of 3 September at the latest, to be careful to review decisions of local policy discretion that do not affect national and important regional interests. The Government will continue its work on improved opposition practices in line with the recommendations of the Riksrevision Report on Objections. Decisions are taken on a day-to-day basis, taking into account natural diversity and other important societal considerations. The government is working on defining objectives for ecosystems. It is important to assess the overall impact of plans and measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1133	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV, says: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for a change in the law that make the Ministry legally obliged in its written grounds for objections decisions to clarify the importance of local self-government in relation to natural values, soil protection and climate change emissions.’ Why does the Council of State think that this is a bad proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1143	It is simply because I am opposed to turning open doors. The Ministry always gives reasons for its opinions in writing. In this respect, it is clear which themes have been assessed and the justification for decisions taken. So this is completely unnecessary. The Ministry already conducts a practice in accordance with what is now proposed by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1148	Both the Council of State and other representatives of the Government parties have argued that there should now be many fewer objections, greater local self-government and that the State should simply stay away from what is absolutely imperative. In trøndelag we haven't really experienced it this way. There is a continuing look in local media that the state intervenes in cases where it is completely incomprehensible to local politicians. The countyman then had to go out with an article in the local media to explain why they intervened – that it's because they care about troubling teams, and not because they want to be at fault. These include: examples of municipalities having been overrun in cases where they will allow the demolition of a cabin and the construction of an identical cabin on the same site. There are examples of objections to scooter lanes to their own cabin because the countyers are looking at the airline instead of on the road, which the municipalities may have practiced for 20 years. There's a lot of examples like that. Does the Council of State mean these are things that the government is going to put away?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1159	I cannot deal with individual cases from Stortinget's pulpit, but I believe that the county councillors should respect national and regional values, not oversee the local political judgement of the municipalities. I get too many requests that it still happens, like the representative. That is why, in September, I wrote a new letter to stress what is the task of the statesmen. If we look at the number of numbers, this government has 81 pst. of the cases given to the municipalities in whole or in part, as opposed to the previous government, which did it in about 40 pst. of the cases. It tells us something about the issues we get to deal with, but not about those we don't get. That's why we're also going to do a review to look at the total number of objections to see if there's been a development, but I haven't got that number. But I don't think the state officials are going to overstep local political discretion. Our local politicians must take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1168	The question is whether what is now not objected to is only local interests, and not any of the interests promoted by this proposal for a representative. It's interests that go on the natural diversity and the whole basis of our lives. I guess the Council of State agrees with what the majority of the committee says, that this actually threatens our basis of life. Therefore, it is important not to damage such values, because it will be irrecoverable. Then I find it a little ominous when the Council of State clearly disagrees with the Riksaudition, when they say that an excessive tightening can lead to the interest that the opposition institution is to protect not being safeguarded. Will the Council of State look at this and be concerned that this is actually being protected, and not just counting objections?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1177	My clear impression is that the statesmen follow up their responsibilities and raise objections when national and regional interests so warrant. It's also the clear feedback I get locally, close to what political color local representatives I meet have. Of course, we take the Riksrevision report seriously. There is a lot to say about the examples used by the Riksrevision, but we follow it up, of course, even though I do not agree with the Riksrevision's assessment. Since 2013, we have, for example: Addressed 23 objections where nature has been the subject. In fact, half of the cases have received full or partial support from the county councillors. We have a good overview of developments in this area, and we have a good overview of what needs to be taken care of and which are taken care of by this practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1184	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1191	I have many times taken up the problem of land degradation from this pulpit, and that nature and cultivated land disappear. There is almost no other policy area where there is less honesty in the question of what is conscious policy or not. I've asked the Council of State many times — two or three times, I think — if she could admit that this is a conscious policy to make it easier to build up, expand and divide habitats, nature and cultivated land. We are talking here about a wing clipping of the opposition institute, perhaps especially the County Environmental Protection Department in many cases. We're talking about situations where the beach zone is now exposed. We know that only 30 pst. by the beaches of Oslofjorden are available to the public. We also know that both Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg, the leaders of the blue parties, have declared it to be more liberal. They've said that before every big shot. I guess they said that before the last municipal elections. So it's a declared policy that it's going to be more liberal to expand. It should not be put into the wheels for the expansion, it is said. The grips that have been taken into the coolant have worked. It boasts that the number of objections has fallen. Of course, the number of objections has plummeted when it goes out of a circular that almost explicitly asks for it! It sounds very good, and it's a good thing to lean more on local and municipal decisions. If I had not thought anything more about it and had not gone further into it, it would have seemed reasonable. That's where you notice where the shoe prints. However, this is also about major national interests that need professional assessments. We have a law, including: The Natural Diversity Act, which means that we have to raise our eyes and see this in a larger context. The big problem, of course, is the bit-by-bit reduction we've been witnessing, and it's going very fast. I notice that the representative of Engen-Helgheim, for example, provides an example from one area in one municipality – his municipality – where they have secured an open-air area. Tell me, isn't Engen-Helgheim and the dark blues on what's going on? The whole environmental movement and the outdoor organisations are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1204	We had a hearing on this matter in the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The proposal was agreed by all the hearing bodies which have expertise and which belong to the field of open-air and nature interest. Knowledge and competence are lacking, and progress is now being made in the wrong direction. I hear that the government believes that it will be up to the municipalities if they want to make a municipal plan for nature diversity. There is also a risk that important natural diversity will be lost. And I'm recording that it's the government party's position. But then you have not understood what are the laws of nature behind such destruction – that they do not wait while you are sleeping with it, and that these are processes that cannot be reversed, because it is destroyed. I don't understand how one dares to continue with this with such a thin knowledge base as we know is behind many of these decisions. That is why it is necessary for this knowledge to be shared with local politicians. Therefore, the Swedish authorities have proposed that such competence should exist in all municipalities, otherwise the local government representatives will receive poor advice. So they don't know what's going to be lost if they're right about it. The government says that they already justify their positions on objections. But then I want to go back to the EVAPLAN documentation, which the government also refers to in the budget, where it says that the opposition institute is weakened, and that it acts on municipal planning. Through interviews, it has been found that the opposition authorities are reluctance to raise objections they would have raised in the past in the light of a professional assessment. The reason is that they follow the government’s signals that fewer objections should be raised. So we're in a competition for numbers, not to take care of nature. Therefore, there is a lack of an overview of the nature values that are now being lost in land management. This is serious, we can do something about it, and we should do something about it. I am very surprised that the Left, for example, does not support SV in these matters, because it would have been really needed. I also record that the proposal to have an area account, which is absolutely necessary for municipalities to have an overview of what they have of different areas, is not endorsed by the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1220	It sounds like it's just before natural disasters statesmen have contradictions, but it's completely wrong. It's only 25 pst., as roughly and «oughly» calculated, of the contradictions the statesmen have caused, which is due to natural disasters. There is good reason to look at the statistics of the statesmen and get the number of reprehensibles down, without necessarily depending on the cost of the natural disaster. It's going to be very negative here, as if the government doesn't care about the natural environment at all. It's a little daunting to listen, because that's not the case. Norway has a very special responsibility for protecting the wild, and that's a good example. The government will now establish a quality standard for error detection. It will provide a better and more accurate management basis and quality standards will help to ensure the survival of wild fauna in Norway. The quality standards set up a system that should be able to say something about the state of the wild rain in the wild, the state of the wild rain, the state of the wild rain, and what we can do to improve the living conditions of the wild rain. The proposal on the quality standard for wild rain has been sent on a general hearing, with a hearing period in time in March 2020. The main line of the proposal is that every five years it will be assessed whether each of Norway's 24 wild areas is of good, medium, or poor quality. There is now evidence that the government is taking the natural environment very seriously. The classification is carried out by an expert group with competence on wild and land use. The objective of the quality standards is a villa clean area of at least medium quality. Bad condition will reduce the likelihood that the wild rain area will be viable in the long term. Most of the wild train in Europe lives in Norway, and we therefore have a special responsibility to take care of it. Quality standards will help us to achieve our national objectives and international commitments on viable populations of wild fauna and flora in Norway. I think this is a good example of the fact that the government is taking nature deprivation and the environment very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1235	There are two reasons why the municipalities do not always make the right decisions locally. Firstly, as has been mentioned here several times, because they often lack natural competence, not least the small municipalities. The second, which is quite essential, is the principle that there should be an arm's length distance between those decisions and those that make the decisions. One should think that in the municipalities it's very often so that people know people, to say it like that. It is the strength of the municipality, but also the weakness of the municipality. Maybe you're not related to the one who's going to expand, maybe you're not close to the one who's going to expand, but you might meet the person in Joker, or you might be seeing someone in some way. It is a very important principle that there is a certain distance between those planning expansions, those who are decision-makers and those decisions that apply. In addition, most municipalities are looking for jobs. They are for expansion in general, and then it has to be so that the expansions are put into a larger plan. There must be someone who's lifting his eyes. In the past, the regions had partial power. They had a little too little power before, but SV wants land plans, cabin plans, etc. must enter a larger plan, not just be municipal decisions. We've witnessed the bit-by-bit expansion that's happened so much in this country, and I'm worried about the speed this has. I notice that the Council of State will not support any of the proposals that have been put forward, nor will it support the government parties. What SV is trying to do is give municipalities a little better tools, make them better able to make good decisions locally. In terms of land accounting, the Council of State says that there is no common tool to use, that no such tool has been developed. Then the question to the Council of State is whether she can answer whether she will take the initiative to develop such a common tool for municipalities in terms of land accounting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1246	These are issues that are also discussed in the Energy and Environment Committee. It's about money, it's about capacity, it's about competence. This administration is institutionally located in the State of the Minister of Municipal Affairs. Much of what we're discussing here concerns local priorities. We spend a lot of money in the state to increase our knowledge of natural diversity. Organic base maps have been mentioned. It is an important tool for all who work with natural diversity and nature planning. We also have a special responsibility in Norway for some species, such as wild and wild. Next year, we hope that the world will dare to conclude a so-called Paris agreement for the natural diversity – in Beijing in the autumn of 2020. Norway, just like in climate negotiations, aims to take a leading position here. When I travel around the Nordics and Europe, many people point to just Norway as a country of the past to both take care of and restore nature. To the representative Arne Nävra: There is a difference between liberal and having greater local autonomy. There are also differences between large and small municipalities. In large municipalities, there is a growing pressure on trade, on the establishment of industry and on large infrastructure. In many small municipalities there are more cabin expansion. For the Left, one of the answers is to strengthen skills and complement the municipalities that do not have the capacity to have many employees, the regional reform – get a greater regional responsibility for planning. Indeed, an important part of the regional reform agreed by all parties is that regional planning needs to be strengthened. So I'll use an example from my own region to say that the state is doing a good deal. We're building four-field highways in the Inland. When one came to Hamar, there was a big debate about Åkersvika. New roads have gone ahead using new electric excavators. We have requested that it not be built during breeding periods, for example, in Åkersvika. When one came to Ringsacht, there was no debate about a huge degradation of soil along the new four-field E6. It is the Workers' Party that governs that municipality. They don't have a debate at all, they just roll out the extension areas along the E6 that the state hasn't been in and could make any demands. This is a lack of political will locally. We have a lot of knowledge, but there's a need to make a political settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1257	I got a direct question from the representative Nävra, and the answer is: No, there are no plans to develop concrete tools in that field. That being said, we are developing this field all the time. I said in my post that, among other things. was due to a lack of methodology. I could add that you really have to stand up and fight for local democracy. In a debate after debate, SV proposes to review the municipalities, override the municipalities – everything is obviously common in Oslo. It's not like that. So I don't want more detailed management, more expectation, more standardisation. In fact, I want us to trust our local politicians, who are chosen to do a job, and who tell us – completely cross-politically every time I meet them – that in the area by area they feel that they are being controlled more and more. I don't want to contribute to that. Here's a job done. Then it's fascinating that SV is concerned about small municipalities. Yes, I am, too, and therefore the answer is municipal reform – not that the state takes responsibility, the state treats and the state details, but that the municipalities get bigger, that they get more capacity, that they attract the right labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1264	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1269	State councils misdraw the full image of SV. SV trusts the municipalities more than the government does, because we believe that they can manage a larger part of the total economy. We give them the money to implement what everyone imposes on them. We suggest that they acquire competence in these areas so that they have the opportunity to make these decisions. We have not proposed their removal, but there are some national natural values that need to be protected. We cannot allow them to be destroyed. What we're after now is to give the municipalities the tools to – with competence, with state legislation and with economics – so that they can maintain these values. It is not that the municipalities sit and call for more regulation from the state – nor from the government. But they're calling for frameworks and resources to do the job they're assigned to. It wants to give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1276	The representative of Ove Trellevik has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1281	SV takes on income the Riksrevision report, where they claim that countersignal practices can lead to more liberalisation. It says in the report that it can lead to it, but that doesn't mean it's going to happen in practice. One of the reasons why the number of countersigns has fallen is that the County State is acting in a way that guides the municipalities. This will also ensure greater competence in municipalities. Instead of saying otherwise, a municipality guides you at an earlier stage – and it benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1286	I am somewhat surprised at the statements made by the Council of State. So we're talking about natural values that we have a national responsibility to take care of. Now, once again, in terms of the natural values where we see that the wallpaper is too large, it's going around the municipalities. That's where the decisions are made, but the municipalities are not able today to see that whole. The state has to take responsibility for putting that whole thing in place. When our proposals are here, it is precisely about both the ability of municipalities to have that overview and the ability of the government to take on the responsibility it should take to ensure that we take care of the natural diversity we have in Norway. I think it might be appropriate if the Council of State also talks with its colleague, the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, about just the need to get such an overview and the need for municipalities to have more competence and also more tools to care for our natural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1293	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1310	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows with replies will be given after contributions by members of the government. And those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1317	The case concerns an SV representative proposal for a fairer housing market, where SV promotes seven proposals for, among others. a national housing plan, taxation and a so-called third housing sector. The Labour Party and the Centre are also promoting their own proposals, and I believe that the individual parties will present their own proposals. Norway has one of the most efficient housing markets in the world. Eight out of ten households live in a owner-occupied dwelling. Self-ownership democracy contributes to the spread of power in society, providing us with a good living environment, good health and stability and security in the lives of individuals. That's why we're also going to have to keep the tradition that most people own their own homes. That doesn't mean that the housing market is perfect. It has to be faster, simpler and cheaper to build homes. Building processes need to be digitised, and planning legislation needs to be easier to understand and relate to. Simplifications have already been implemented which make, among other things, flats may be built more than DKK 100000 more reasonably per unit. Here, too, the potential for further simplification is high, which ultimately benefits the purchasers when the offer also grows. Unfortunately, we know that the offer of new dwellings is not large enough in all the big cities. For example, we know that with today's regulation rate in Oslo, the Oslo City Council also rules against increased housing prices. It is mainly the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring that there is enough space for housing. I also trust that the individual municipalities themselves will be able to do so – as opposed to SV, which proposes national housing plans that will intervene in the municipality's freedom of action. With regard to the SV’s proposal for development agreements, I would also like to point out that the government is already assessing the rules for financing infrastructure. One of the things that worries me the most is that the proportion of low income is the one that has the largest fall in ownership. The reasons for this are probably complex, but it also shows us that there is a need for a more targeted policy against those who need it the most. Therefore, the Right in Government has ensured that both the start-up loan scheme and the housing support scheme are targeted. Those who receive housing support now receive more than before, and more people receive start-up loans than before, with a higher amount than before. Only in the last three years have more than 12,000 households gone from a lease to a owner-occupied dwelling through a start-up loan. Among other things, SV makes provision for young start-ups to be entitled to start-up loans. That's what I think it sounds like. The problem is that it's at the expense of the disadvantaged. If we look at the number of numbers, we can see that in, for example, In 2012, when there was a start-up scheme for young people, almost 10,000 young people with good governance received a start-up loan. At the same time, there were only 2,500 disadvantaged people who got the same help. In 2017, which is the last year for which the Husbank has reliable figures, almost 7 000 people with disabilities also received help. Most did so in order to fully finance their own housing, and most of them were also families with children. There's a marked increase during this government, which is a consequence of a wild policy to reach those who need it the most. In addition, the SV in this case proposes to open up a regulated housing sector, and it will largely involve the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. However, in practice a regulated housing market will not help those who need it the most, but a lot of public resources will be used to help a few. It could also contribute to the creation of an a-layer and a b-layer, where there are some who need to remain in a municipal or state arrangement without entering the ordinary housing market with the freedom and stability it gives, and the possibility of participating in the normal price rise. I would also like to comment that SV has also made a proposal in the attitude about a distinction between primary and secondary housing in the case of property taxes. There is already a distinction between primary and secondary housing in the case of property taxes and the value of the equation there. I don't see a need to make the property tax more complicated than it is today – I would rather order the property tax to be lower, so that people can have their home as a home, not as a tax item for us. The housing market works precisely because it is a market. We have to do what we can to make it room for more, rather than having increased taxes for most and subsidizing for a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1338	Housing, together with work, education and health, is the four pillars of the welfare state. Let me say: Norwegian housing policy has been successful. A place to live at an affordable price is crucial to being able to live a life of independence and good living. The working party believes that as many as possible should own their own home. It is a public responsibility to facilitate good quality housing for all. Therefore, it is an important political task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. The dwelling should be a place to live, not a speculation object. The difference between owning and renting owner-occupied dwellings is becoming one of the inequalities of society. With today's housing prices in Oslo, first-time buyers struggle to get into the housing market and buy their own home. Both the state and the municipalities are responsible for the construction of enough housing and for the construction of varied housing of good quality. In the evaluation of the Planning and Building Act, researchers say that the law provides too little for measures to enable municipalities to implement housing social objectives and ambitions. The evaluation therefore proposes to introduce the form of availability as a regulatory objective, such as: is available in Denmark, is useful and should be done. Here, the new plan law from 2015 in Denmark gives the municipalities the right to determine the nature and uses of the residential building. We believe it is important to give the planning authorities the opportunity to demand that there be a share of reasonable housing in projects to be built. With this tool, more people can get a chance to buy their own home. With this I address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1353	Then the representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese has drawn up the proposals that the Labour Party has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1358	The Norwegian housing market works well. 80 pst. of those who live, own their own dwelling, and that is a good figure in relation to other countries. But there are, as others have pointed out, opportunities to improve policy even more. What governs housing prices, and what governs people's ability to get into the housing market, are completely different from what the proposers address in this proposal. What we should do more about if we want lower housing price growth and more into the housing market is to move towards less regulation and make it cheaper to build and also cheaper to own. All the proposals that are being made in this matter go quite the opposite way, and I think it is strange that the proposers believe that this will be to help housing owners and start-ups. I'm pretty sure this would make a lot worse. The proposals are moving towards more regulation and public governance. It is about increasing property taxes, and it is about allowing the public to introduce contracts that could actually be very costly and unfair to builders. Then it won't be easier for a beginner to get into the housing market, it'll actually be harder. At present, municipalities already have an obligation to plan dwellings, and it can also be taken into account that a proportion of the dwellings being built are to be in lower price classes. But this is the supply and demand that governs. I have no faith that this would be anything better if we were to introduce national housing plans that would in some way know this better than local authorities, who know how things are local. Increasing the property tax will make it more expensive to live. If you then rent or intend to buy a dwelling, it is a cost-effective measure, which will allow fewer people to buy their own home, and fewer people will be able to live. The money for which people buy homes has already paid taxes. What has something to say for owner-occupiers is how much money they're left with. It shouldn't be a very difficult calculation – seeing that taking away more money will lead to less living for them. If we are also to remove the restrictions on the possibility of development agreements that today say that we cannot agree that private builders should build public infrastructure such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals, that is, what the municipalities are required to offer to the inhabitants, there would also be something that will contribute to cost-effective housing, and that is not what the initial start-ups need. I would really like to thank the proposers for making the day quite meaningful. By voting against this proposal today, we are now giving an extensive hand to especially first-time start-ups, homeowners and property developers, so that they can work in peace and quiet and build and buy the homes without extra state regulations and costly arrangements that would enable the few to improve their ability to buy a home. So it's good that it doesn't now become a majority for this, so first-time buyers don't have to be extra worried about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1375	Housing is a well-being in line with work, health and education. A safe and stable housing situation is a necessary framework for all human lives. The aim of the Central Party's housing policy is to enable the possession of its own housing to be as much as possible. The Central Party will ensure that people can live and work throughout the country. By countering centralisation and developing the whole country, housing markets in the largest cities and agglomerations are less under pressure. Part of this is that municipalities and counties cooperate on good transport solutions that expand the housing and labour market regions. With, inter alia: efficient transport solutions, good commuting arrangements and the development of high-speed internets across the country will strengthen the opportunities for spreading jobs and living areas. Another crucial factor is that one has a national policy that facilitates people to live throughout the country. The municipalities have a great responsibility for housing policy. By providing for adequate completed residential areas, rapid processing and good cooperation between the municipality and builders or individuals who want to build housing, a contribution can be made to making building in the municipality more attractive. The municipality may intervene in the setting up of municipal plotting companies to contribute to the provision and organisation of land for the construction of housing, commercial buildings and public buildings. Measures such as rental-to-owner schemes are an option that can be used by the municipality to help more people in a safe housing situation. Many municipalities are doing a thorough and good job with this today. The housing market and housing construction are highly market driven. The demand for housing will therefore be more striking than a national housing plan will be, in order to know where more needs to be built. The Centre Party does not consider that there is a need for more national housing plans than is already the case, but believes targeted instruments through the Husbank and other schemes are important to ensure that young people, disadvantaged people and single people should also have the opportunity to own their own housing and participate in the successful Norwegian owner model. Favorable tax rules for owning a dwelling have been an important part of the ownership line, and it wants to maintain the centre party. When about 80 pst. living in owner-occupied dwellings, these are rules that are positive for many in Norway. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party are promoting proposals in the suspension, asking for an investigation on how to adapt legislation and any housing support schemes to provide housing throughout the country. The proposal outlines a number of areas of the housing market for which we want an assessment, including: specific housing solutions in districts and areas where construction costs may exceed the mortgage value of the dwelling, and also specific housing solutions in press areas. The means of providing housing for disadvantaged persons, for initial establishment and for solitude should be a central element. In the proposal we also ask that assessments be made of the Danish model with non-commercial housing organisations. The centre party today does not vote for the proposals in the draft representative, but requests that several of the proposals addressed by SV be considered in a comprehensive investigation into the Norwegian housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1390	Having a home is the starting point for having a good life. I think everyone agrees on that. This government has severely weakened social housing policy, so that it has hit the hard way. The other side of this, which we discuss much less, is how we live in urban areas, urban areas and districts, how we make good living environments, and how we avoid social segregation in the housing policy we have. That's one of the main points we want to discuss when we talk about a national housing plan. The fact that the market is unable to provide housing for everyone, we know, and there is no solution – as the Right proposes – to make housing worse and non-accessible for the disabled and the elderly. We probably have such homes in this country. A lot that the Right also knows how the market mechanisms work: it does not help to build cheaply, because the price is put on the market. It'll be more expensive for the buyer. So you make worse homes that are going to cost the same price. There's no solution. We need to start discussing how we should both have a general view of the important social development of the housing market and also provide municipalities with some tools that will enable them to ensure that we, for example. reduces the degree of segregation. I thought maybe we all agreed on that. There are quite a lot of subsidies in the housing market in Norway, sail if we don't talk about it. It's via the tax deduction, and it's hard to do something about it. That means that this becomes very unbalanced to those who are not allowed to participate in it. This is also behind some of the proposals we have made, for example. on the municipal property tax, which we propose to make more social. Everyone is crying crocodile tears because it's unsocial, but when we propose to make it more social, the majority vote it down. When we believe that those who speculate in homes and buy more, pay a little more tax for it, so that it might become a little less attractive and the homes come out on the purchase market – so that prices can go down – then we vote against it. But you still cry crocodile tears over those who can't afford it. The housing stock is mentioned. The government has targeted it so slightly that you can now have no more than 130 000 kroner in family income in order to get it. I don't think anyone in this room would have done it, to say it like that. It's so small, and if it's increased a little bit for the individual, then the bolt poisons have increased more. I think I've said it 20 times now: that's how the numbers are. They're from the House Bank, and they're obvious. Start-up loans: No, extending the start-up loan scheme to first-time payment start-ups will not make it worse for the disadvantaged. The proposal is to split the scheme into two and increase the house-banking framework. The representative from the right knows that very well. Nevertheless, she continues to repeat and repeat what is wrong, to stop a proposal that is good and will ensure that several of the young people who have the opportunity to buy and get into the home market and who can afford to pay the loan have the opportunity to do so. We are concerned that everyone should have some freedom in the housing market, and then public authorities, both state and municipal, have to do something different than today. That is why we are promoting these proposals. I am also pleased with the proposal that the Labour Party and the Central Party have made, because it is moving in the same direction. SV will be required to support that proposal in a subsidiary manner. It also addresses housing challenges in the districts, as the representative Heidi Greni was up and talking about. There is no doubt that the centralisation policy pursued by the government also contributes to the price pressure and land pressure that we could have been in addition. At the same time, there is a problem in some parts of the country that many older people need to get into a more suitable dwelling, but they do not sell their house so that they can pay the deposit in a new apartment in central areas, where prices are much higher. Many of these older people are the minimum pensioners. We also need grants for lifts, as SV has proposed. There is now a need to take a look at what needs are out there, both to ensure that everyone is able to live safely, and that through housing policy we contribute to society being organised in such a way as – and to live in such a way – that there is no segregation and great differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1413	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1418	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1423	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals SV has made on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1429	The aim of the government is that everyone should be able to obtain and maintain their own housing. In the Granavolden platform, we have stated that we must strengthen the social work of housing. I think many of the ideas of the proposers are good, but I probably do not agree with all the solutions that SV has promoted to achieve these objectives. The starting point in Norway is also very good. The Norwegian housing model is one of the best in the world, and eight out of ten Nordics live in a home owned by the household. That's good. The dwelling is an important part of democracy because it's about making you independent. It's in many ways the heart of your life, that's where you spend the most time, and that's where you create your own story. Of course, this security has a lot to say for children, because with an unsafe housing situation it is not easy to do well in school, and it is not easy to have a safe upbringing. Housing also makes it easier for adults to be in permanent employment. Therefore, it is essential that housing social policy assists those who need it the most. In reply to the Committee, I have explained my views on the individual proposals. However, there are some of those I want to comment here. In my opinion, the framework for the planning of municipalities is good enough. We have to go back to the 1980s to find as high starting numbers as we've seen in recent years. I also do not support the proposals for changes to the housing tax. It is expensive enough to live in Norway, and since 2013, the government has been working to reduce taxes and charges for most people. It's also about facilitating that more people can own their own homes, and that's a crazy policy. It has been throughout the post-war period, across political dividing lines. Favourable tax rules have been part of this policy. That should still be the case. The housing of people should not be central to the provision of income by the State. The ownership line is strongly anchored in Norwegian policy. The government will facilitate as many as possible of those who want it to be able to own their own housing. We are also clear on that in the Granavolden platform. We have made some choices, and in Norway we have a tradition of high ownership. I see no reason to go back on this and create a larger rental sector that is not specifically targeted at disadvantaged people. I believe that most people are doing well in the housing market today. That someone has to save over time to buy their own home is nothing new, and I do not think it is a big problem either. But those who don't manage themselves will get help. It is the municipalities that are supposed to help people who themselves are not able to take care of their own interests in the housing market to obtain a suitable dwelling. The house bank can contribute to financing, with both loans and grants to municipalities wishing to provide rental housing for disadvantaged people. Start-up loans promote ownership and contribute greatly to the ownership of owner-occupied dwellings by disadvantaged people. In 2018, the municipalities provided start-up loans for SEK 9.3 billion. NOK 6 900 households. This is an increase from 2012, as the municipalities communicated 7 billion. kr in initial loans. Many people have good assumptions about owning their own housing, and the losses on starting loans are small. Loans have been targeted at disadvantaged people in recent years. There's a great potential here to help even more. Several of these issues I come back to in the announced news of housing social policy. The Workers' Party and the Centre are asking for an investigation on several points. There are some of the themes that I'm going to come back to in the Storing Message that we're now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1466	In the evaluation of the Law on Planning and Building, researchers say that the law provides too little for measures to enable municipalities to implement housing-social objectives and ambitions. The evaluation therefore proposes that municipalities be given the opportunity to introduce the form of provision as a regulatory objective. We believe it is important to allow municipalities to demand that there be a share of reasonable housing in projects to be built. With that tool, more people can get a chance to buy their own home. Why does the government believe that the researchers who have carefully evaluated the Law on Planning and Buildings and concluded that arrangements should be introduced as regulatory purposes are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1473	This is simply because we believe that the municipalities have many tools today. In these days I travel around and talk to many, both municipalities and employees in municipalities, who are working on just this. The municipalities have tools, and they are the land authorities. They are responsible for making the municipality's spatial plans, and they can determine where and how and – in many ways – at which price to build. Development agreements and referral agreements are in place. What's the big problem today, and there's every reason to worry about, is the regulatory rate. Those who now run the largest cities, where this is the biggest problem, have a far too slow pace of regulation. While we now have a very large start-up percentage, it's going to fall in the next few years because it's going too slowly in our biggest cities. That's actually the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1478	In her reply to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the Council of State states that she does not see that the role of the Husbank in the housing market should be substantially changed. But in the comments on the matter we are dealing with now, the bourgeois parties write that the role of the Husbank will be a theme of the announced big business message on social housing policy. What role should the House Bank play today? What should be the social mission of the House Bank? Should the social mission be cut off, or should the House Bank be an engine to achieve the goal of more people owning their own housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1485	When we're dealing with a big message, we have to look at all the tools we have, and the way we work. We need to know that we're on track over time, and that we're working to help those we're going to help. Our starting point is that we're going to help those who don't do it themselves. The home bank is the main tool of the state, but also the main tool of the municipalities in this way. They are a major knowledge intermediary and have an important role to play in housing social policy. That is why I have said that today I do not have knowledge that makes the Husbank should change significantly, but we have this round, we are receiving input, and we are asking for views from municipalities, county officials, organisations and the construction industry on how the cooperation with the Husbank is. Of course, we also ask the House Bank what views they have on this. We are doing this work in the middle of the day, and I will, of course, come back to Stortinget with a message when it is ready next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1490	Housing policy is also important for the housing pattern in Norway. After access to jobs, access to housing is the main concern of people living in a district municipality. In many municipalities one has the challenge that the mortgage value of the house is lower than the construction costs. In the past, we had a pilot scheme in which municipalities could receive grants to stimulate this type of housing. We had an opportunity to exploit the start-up loan scheme, where municipalities could come in with grants. Both of these have been removed by the government. Sees the Council of State that it's a big challenge to get someone to build in a municipality where one knows that the value might be reduced by 25 pst. when a key is placed in the door? And what means does the Council of State see that we can use to meet this challenge in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1497	I'm well aware that this is a challenge somewhere. The representative asks if it's a big challenge. I'm probably not sure about that, but it's a challenge somewhere. The dilemma is that while people are needed to work both in the municipality and in the business community in our districts, there is a challenge in investing in housing. This is part of what we're getting into, which we're going to have to evaluate. Of course, it is fully possible for municipalities to facilitate housing, and it is fully possible for businesses to contribute to housing, as has been done in many places in this country throughout history, just to attract labour. Whether the state should have a role in this, I'm not sure, simply because I think we should target those who are really disadvantaged. But then there might be other instruments we can look at in this round. As I said, we're in the middle of making recordings, and we're not just going to the cities; we're also going to the districts to listen to the challenges you have there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1504	Thanks for the answer. The challenge is not that there are no residential spaces and are not organised in this way, but the challenge is that it is difficult to obtain bank loans because the mortgage value is lower than the construction costs, and now the municipalities are deprived of the opportunity to use start-up loans to contribute to this. Therefore, the challenge is: What tools can the municipality use? These are usually the same municipalities that have experienced a dramatic decline in income due to the conversion of the income system. They don't have the money they can use themselves to build homes, and municipal housing will then be halved when one puts the key in the door. So what tools does the Council of State see that municipalities can use to ensure that these too have access to loans, those who want to build in a district municipality where the mortgage value is lower than the construction costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1511	Of course, a municipality can provide both loans and guarantees without a loan in the House Bank. Throughout history, we have seen that both healthcare companies and industry in many small places to attract labour have helped to secure housing, and I am very aware that the point is not the home, but getting a loan for the home on private hands. As I said, I'm not sure how big these challenges are, but that they exist is certain, and we have to discuss with the municipalities whether these are solutions where the state should go in and contribute. But mainly my starting point is that the House Bank should be for the disadvantaged. We're going to help them, we're going to get them into the housing market, and we're going to try to get them to own their own home, like everybody else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1525	The Council of State makes it very clear that the government's housing policy is only about the social aspect, and it is in itself far too narrow. They do not see how they could use the House Bank, for example. as a community developer. It could be made possible that fewer people were disadvantaged in the housing market, because they had more voluntary choices, could make reasonable choices in their own lives if the economy is difficult, for example, or because you would simply choose a little different. It is very difficult to understand what is the point of appeal against proposal No. 2, to allow a reasonable proportion of social housing to be required in new projects to be built. This will mean getting less segregation and fewer housing social problems overall. This has been done in other countries with good results. What is the government's opposition to this point, especially considering that municipalities cannot premise if they do not own the plots themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1534	I totally disagree with the representative's description. I fully believe that the House Bank should be part of social development. The house bank is just going to target the disadvantaged, not the newly educated lawyers and economists, who at all times have had to save money before buying their own home if you do not have rich parents. It hasn't been dramatic for me, and I don't think it's for anyone else either, so it's about the choices you make with regard to the House Bank. Other countries are not Norway. Norway has a very special housing policy, we have a very special housing situation, where over 80 pst. owns its own home. You don't do that in any other country around the world. I am now traveling around, and I just have to tell the representative that I have not received one call from one municipality that lacks tools, as this proposal addresses. Not one municipality has asked for it. I might meet someone, I won't ignore that, but that's not the point. Municipalities have a lot of tools through the Law on Planning and Building to regulate, to define and to help keep price levels low. So that's not the problem, but you have to regulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1543	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1550	We hear from the government parties that the housing market in Norway is doing so well, but then there are some elements that the government parties choose to ignore. The level of debt in Norway is sky-high, and growth has been higher than the growth in income in recent years. We know that this is an important vulnerability to the Norwegian economy, and we know that we stand out internationally with high levels of debt, which the International Monetary Fund and the OECD also warn against. I also notice that the Council of State is talking about lawyers and economists, but we can also develop, for example. nurses. In Oslo, the nurse's index published by Property Norway shows that a single nurse can only buy 5 pst. of the dwellings for sale. We want most people to be able to live near their jobs, for example. The hospitals in Oslo, or the new giant hospital that the government is planning for at Gaustad – where, after all, those who work at the hospital will not be able to afford to live near it? In addition, Oslo is already an enormously segregated city when it comes to economic differences. We also know that the share of the owner-occupiers has fallen in recent years. We are not going to hear about that from the government parties either. In particular, there are fewer low incomes that now own their own housing, but the government parties do not seem to be particularly concerned about this. Finally, we know that the housing market reinforces the differences. 48 pst. of them in the lowest income quartile owns their dwelling, while of them with the highest income, there are 93 pst. owning its own dwelling. How do the government parties think this affects the economic differences in Norway, with the price increase that we have seen? So it's not just saving. That's not what it's about, because we see that too many people don't help saving their income. You don't have the chance to take the price back, and you also look at the numbers when it comes to who gets help from their parents to get into the housing market. In this way, the housing market as it is today becomes a difference machine. The ownership line is good, that's something that we support below, but also remember that it's 20 pst. who live in the unsafe rental market, which in practice is left to themselves to listen to the government parties here. But it is actually inspiration to pick up from other countries that also have larger rental markets, such as the United Kingdom. have non-commercial general dwellings, as in Denmark. There is a model that would lead to more security and more alternatives for those who choose to rent their own housing, but it would also help to dampen the price pressure in the ordinary housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1563	A good life is also about having your own home. I am pleased that an overall committee is standing on the lines of ownership, and that the objective of owning as much as possible is thus a firm one. But the possibility of buying an owner-occupied dwelling is very unevenly distributed. I note, unfortunately, that the government parties seem largely satisfied with today's housing policy. They at the same time boast of the importance of the House Bank. I agree that the House Bank is an important factor, but had they intended this, they had also increased the lending framework further. I want to refer to the Workers' Party. We have taken this seriously in our budget for 2020 and have gone for an increase, which would give a quick effect to many people who are currently struggling to obtain their own housing. The Labour Party does not consider that there is a need for more national housing plans, in addition to what is already practice, but there is a need for action and action. The Labour Party believes that targeted tools through the Husbank and other schemes are important in order to ensure that young people, disadvantaged people and single people also have the opportunity to own their own housing, and not least to participate in the successful Norwegian owner-model we have for housing. Here I believe it will be done too little by the government. In our alternative budget, we've added 100 million. additional DKK for housing aid, so that more people can obtain it and the aid can be increased. We have also proposed increasing the lending framework to the House Bank by a total of 9 billion. ensure that young people become their own target group here. Another major problem is housing in districts and areas where construction costs may exceed the mortgage value of the dwelling. Here, many people struggle to get funded own housing, because the market value is lower than the loan when the key is put in the door. I registered that the Council of State was uncertain about the scope of this. Then I might suggest that you do a survey of it, because it's significant and applies to many. We have to take this seriously. It is therefore disappointing that the government parties do not support the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre for an investigation into national housing expansion. So to the Progress Party and property tax: if the government had now done so that the municipalities had a sufficient framework to operate their offers, they might have put down or removed the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1582	I think it's time for the Council of State to get out of the academic bubble. So there are people who drive a bus, work in a kindergarten and stand in a store that needs to get into the housing market, and don't have to pay more than the loan that they could have served if they had got it – right out of the window and in the pockets of those who can afford to buy property, and speculate on it, because people have a housing need. This is a social problem, and the government seems to be more concerned with protecting the housing speculators than with those who need a dwelling. SV will allow multiple ownership lines. That's our main score. The second is that you have to rent, then there has to be a little more choice, some possibilities have to be present, as it is in some other countries. Yes, Norway is special – and especially bad for those who are struggling in the housing market – but it would have been better if we had regulated more plots so that different types of dwellings had been in the same project, yes, even in the same rise, as we experienced when we were in Finland and looked at housing policy there. There's no difference whether it's a rental home, whether it's a social home, whether it's an owner's home, a student home, or an elderly home. They may be in the same enclosure, in the same block, in the same residential area. But especially in this city, and many other places, we have quite segregated residential areas, and it's a social problem for integration, for the equality and for the understanding between people that we live in different worlds. It's not good for society that it is, and it makes life difficult for many and quite one-sided for many others. So the council says here it's just up to the municipalities to figure this out for themselves. No, it's not, because it's the builders who basically now set the premises for what's to be built. There are plots available in many places, but they are not interested in building, because they may not be allowed to build exactly as they like, or they may not be sold at the prices they want. So there is a need for greater public participation in order to obtain the housing market that we need and that society needs, and that is not just in the interests of the developers and property speculators. Finally, SV has made several proposals in several rounds to get a model of municipal property tax, with a compulsory base deduction, i.e. a social scheme. So that's the majority vote, and then they say that we're the ones who want to increase taxes. This does not hang on to anything at all. We really need these proposals to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1593	It is quite simply that when we have more people who want to buy a dwelling, we also have to make sure that more dwellings are built. We were asked if we understood the market economy, so I can confirm that we do. It is simply that when demand increases, there is a need to increase the supply. One of the main reasons why housing prices have grown so much is that there are simply too few dwellings. And if we also make other changes on the supply side that stimulate it to build more, for example. simplify the rules which reduce construction costs, and ultimately benefit those who intend to buy their own housing. Karin Andersen has been up on this pulpit and claimed that the proportion of the boute poisons covered by the housing support has fallen. That's wrong. In fact, the proportion of housing costs covered by housing aid is higher than when SV himself left the government. Kari Elisabeth Kaski claimed in his post that the Right had not mentioned that the ownership of those with low income went down. It is also wrong – it was one of the things I said in my post that I was most concerned about. But that's also why we need solutions for that particular group: those who are permanently disadvantaged, who stand far from the housing market, and who need a much higher priority than the SV has added and added. We actually have to target the initial loan scheme so that those who really need it get the help they need. If we look at the year 2012, there were 10,000 young people who got a start-up loan, and of them 2,500 were disadvantaged. Now the arrow goes in the opposite direction. Only over the last three years have 12,000 people been given the opportunity to buy their own home through start-up loans, which are the most remote from the housing market. I also find it fascinating that SV is concerned that the debt ratio is very high, but at the same time is in favour of a proposal that would in effect have led to young people having the opportunity to get 100 pst. the financing of loans for owner-occupied dwellings. This would also have led to an increase in indebtedness. The fact that one also has more credit in the market also contributes to the rise in housing prices, which means that the credit actually increases for everyone, and that the level of indebtedness increases. Rather, you have to decide who you want to give priority to. For the Right, it is very clear and simple: we want to give priority to those who are permanently disadvantaged, those who are far from the housing market, rather than pouring more credit into the housing market, having more difficult building rules and getting the construction costs up and building pace down, as the left-hand side goes in. That's right-wing disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1606	I want to ask back to the representative Holm Lønneth: what is the representative who thinks will increase the debt most in Norway? Is it that on display after viewing, you meet resourceful, money-intensive parents who are going to buy homes for their children, or investors who are looking for a speculative object to put their money in – or that you have a total change of housing policy, where you get a third housing sector that is both involved in mitigating the price pressure in the ordinary housing market, and that you offer start-up loans to young people and to disadvantaged people who can rather be more focused on the housing they want to buy? As for the idea that if you just leave this 100 pst. to the market, first of all the level of debt is going to decline: no, history shows very well that then the debt ratio has only gone straight up to the weather, and that the housing market then contributes to increasing the differences quite dramatically in Norway. Housing policy is too important only to leave it to the market with a few measures aimed only at the most disadvantaged. When you look at housing expansion, it's just a pretty good example of it, because what happened when we left it all in the market? Well, during the financial crisis, housing expansion in Norway went down dramatically, and the consequences of that we saw a few years later with the price rise that was due, among other things. the fall in housing development during the financial crisis. So when the government parties say no, we're not going to have a housing plan, this is going to fix the market ourselves, we've already seen a phase of what the consequences are. The proposals we are promoting here are about providing municipalities with more tools to operate housing policies that are adapted to the challenges where they are. It may be the Husbanken, which will be able to provide loans to young entrepreneurs in cooperation with municipalities, especially those municipalities that need more young people to establish themselves there. I have been out in the municipalities and talked to them about their wishes and needs. Property taxes: In Oslo, there is an ever-growing number of secondary housing that contributes to a more segregated city and that pushes out, among other things. nurses and others most of the people from the inner city. If one could have had the opportunity in Oslo to increase the tax on secondary housing, a more social housing policy could have been pursued locally. In conclusion, until you just cut down on the requirements and make it cheaper to build houses: the experience shows that there are enough builders who run away with that gain, and that there are not most people who are left with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1617	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1622	There are large subsidies in the Norwegian housing market. So the big subsidies, the billions, go to them as owners. This is money that the right clearly seems to be a good use for people who – a lot – do not need it at all, while for example. the housing aid has fallen from that scheme since the government took over 50000. That means that very many people don't get at all. The latest figures from the Husbank, 2018 figures – 2019 are not yet fully known – show that the proportion of the bountiful tolls covered has fallen dramatically, because the income of the groups now receiving housing support is so low. The housing aid should also be an opportunity for more people to buy and own their own housing, and that group is completely gone now. It was a very important housing social tool, which enabled more people to own and live safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1627	Frankly, the right representative discusses starting loans as if we have the same amount to borrow out. We don't. We need to give priority to the right, but we don't need it the same way, because in our alternative budgets, we have a much larger lending framework than what the Right has. And then there are pre-regulated plots, for example. in Oslo, but the builders believe that the profit margin is not good enough that it is too low. So it's not that they don't make money, but they don't want to make enough money to build up, so they leave the land uninhabited. So I really hope that in the future we can have a good debate on what the House Bank is going to be like today, what kind of social tasks the House Bank should have – not like now, where the government is cutting the House Bank, which we all agree on is the country's main housing policy tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1635	It is quite right that the Arbeiderpartiet, SV and the Zenterpartiet have a higher lending framework for the Husbanken. It's also true that they had it when they put themselves in government. In spite of that, you are now paying out record amounts in start-up loans. That means that even if you had 25 billion. kr in the loan framework, there was not as much money going to the initial loan. There was at least not as much money for the long-term disadvantaged who were on the housing market. It is precisely that you have used the House Bank as it should be, an important housing social tool that will be used to help those who need it all, most of all. I would also like to stress that for the Right, and also for the Government, it has been important to make it more difficult to buy house number two and three and easier to buy housing number one. That is also why we in the government have made sure that we increase the tax on secondary housing, precisely so that it is less profitable to invest in it and more profitable to invest in other forms of business, but also to make it easier for others to get into the housing market. I have no faith in the mantra we constantly hear from SV, that increased tax is the solution to all problems also in the housing market. I think people should get the lowest possible property tax. It's about spending your money on investing in a home, and not necessarily an investment object, and you also have to count on the total cost that people have of living. The property tax is part of it, along with the fees. The property tax should be low simply because it is unsocial and will go out on many people who have a dwelling, despite the fact that they do not necessarily have very good income.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1644	I do not know whether it is that the Right Representative does not understand the Central Party's arrangement for starting loans, or whether she will not understand it, but there is clearly a need for clarification. The central party has the same framework as the government for starting loans to the long-term disadvantaged. It shall be reserved for permanent disadvantaged and not for other groups. And then we've repeatedly called for a two-part starter loan scheme, i.e. a separate pot that covers the challenges for those who don't get into the housing market because they don't have a rich parent or the ability to save enough equity. So our plan for the start-up loan scheme won't affect the long-term disadvantaged; it's the exact same amount that the government has. We also want a pot for those who don't have equity or rich parents in their back.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1651	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1656	We hear from the representative from the Right that the SV's answer is that increased taxes on housing should solve all the problems in the housing market. We are now dealing with seven different housing proposals from SV. SV has also repeatedly promoted a wide range of other proposals, precisely to address the challenges in the housing market. The majority of these proposals are not about taxes; they are about a wide range of other instruments to address the housing market. I really think, to be quite honest, it is disappointing that the Right and Government parties are so little willing to discuss the substance and content of the various proposals and are willing to discuss policies at all in the area of the housing market. But it seems that the ideological glasses here are on, and so the housing market has to be left to the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1661	The debate on substance is closed. So 32 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1678	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1685	This issue is about different budgetary changes to be made to the 2019 government budget, i.e. the current year. It's about something that might have been more expensive, and something that might have gotten cheaper. On the SV side, we have also noticed that the government has used this balancing round to strengthen some areas in different departments, for example. student housing. We're very happy about that. We think you should be allowed to engage in politics when you're a politician, whether you're in the Grand Duchy or you're in government. That's why we wanted from SV to use these balancing propositions to make good suggestions. I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party and the Center Party choose not to be part of it. So they say yes to the government being allowed to run politics and propose changes, but they themselves want to cut the size when it comes to being able to do the same. We disagree. In this proposition, we see that there's money left over, for example. in the case of housing aid, which we discussed in the previous case. It shows quite clearly that it has not been strengthened when you have money left over. There are also some other points, such as: in the case of rental dwellings, there is also money left over. There is a real need to strengthen social housing policy. It is not possible to make this change, but it is possible to make this change, saying that the money left over in these items can be transferred to the local economy. There are a lot of messages from the municipalities that they are struggling very hard to get the budgets going up ahead. These include: as a result of a government reduction in the State grant, or an increase in the municipal excess, in the item for particularly resource-intensive services. It has hit the municipal sector very hard, especially the municipalities that have many such users. There is a good part that has now been given, also because there is a very hard printing practice from the hospitals, which means that the municipalities get a lot of heavy tasks that cost a lot because they require special skills and a lot of employees. Therefore, we propose that the money saved in the various budget areas be transferred to the local government sector, so that there is an opportunity to improve services in the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1700	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1705	Yes, I am addressing the suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1710	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1715	I can assure Andersen, the representative, that it is obvious that politicians are going to be involved in politics. We explain this in the note on which the Workers' Party and the Center Party stand together. I can refer to it, so it becomes very clear: ‘... considers the proposals for changes to the State budget to be treated as purely budgetary changes and considers that they should not be used for purely politically justified changes. On this basis, these members do not go into other comments, but refer to comments and proposals for Prop. 1 S [[2018–2019]] So these are proposals for a government budget. We believe that the Storting should have one budgetary procedure – two if revised – and that this is the cleanest way to deal with it. What is about to happen – and as far as the government is concerned, and also in 2014 or 2015, I do not remember – is a major change in the aging process. We will soon be in the third reading of the budget, and it will be inexhaustible. If we now adopt all of this, these municipalities will get a lot of money. It's very good, we're for it, but they would have the little Christmas Eve this year. They probably would have liked that, so it's not about that. We can be too intent on it, but it'll be unexplained. The government – even though the purposes here can never be so good, and we can never agree – should not, and then we should have the budgetary negotiations as we have them, in December, and then we have revised in May to June. That is what is the main content and principle behind the Workers' Party. This is what I'm about to say now, so maybe I won't take the word in the cases about the next change propositions. We also have the same notes in the Prop settings. 24 S and Prop. 25 S that comes continuously here, where we stand for the same principle, but with suggestions. We're going to have to get back to that. So this is the explanation why the Workers' Party is doing what we're doing, and that's explained in the comments in this Prop setting. 22 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1729	Until a few years ago, these changes were used for purely budgetary changes. Unfortunately, the government of Solberg changed that a few years ago. We believe that to be very unfair. It's unfair to use this for rematches in the budget. It's kind of going to be a third budgetary process, and we think that's unfortunate. We believe that the proposals on changes in the state budget should be treated as purely budgetary changes and not used for purely politically justified changes. That is why we do not support the SV's proposals. It does not in any way mean that we disagree with the priorities they make in those proposals, but we strongly disagree with the idea of introducing a third round of budget here in the Chamber. Therefore, as an opposition party, we will also take responsibility and not use these change propositions that way, and I hope we can come back to the practice where the government uses them as purely budgetary changes. We have two more things with change propositions after this. We have the exact same argument and logic in those matters, so I'm not going to repeat it. This applies to all three matters we are dealing with now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1738	I understand that the representative, Andersen, wants completely new budgetary principles and a completely new budget debate on the local planning. I don't think we should use the balancing debate for that. So there's no money left over, there's no change in rules. Those are estimate adjustments. What's very good about estimates in the state budget, is that if more than what you were thinking comes under an arrangement, there's money to cover it for everyone. If fewer people come in, you don't spend as much money as you would have thought. The whole point of the word ‘estimate’ is that there is some uncertainty about the number. Then there is no money left, then there are technical adjustments, and the government is dealing with it. In the case of student housing, I just have to stress that it is within the principles that apply. These are dwellings that are fully planned, where the spade is in the ground and the money runs this year. This year's money in the budget runs this year. There is no attempt to make budgetary changes in ageing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1747	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1752	I think you have some strange arguments now for what you go for, and what you go against. In a proposal we're going to deal with later, the entire committee says that we're referring to an increase in the house-banking framework and an increase in grants from the Department of Knowledge to build more student homes. As I said, SV very much agreed. But it's not a technical adjustment. It is a priority of money you have left over now, to build more student homes, and it is completely agreed that you should do so. I was inside the ministry's websites when these propositions were adopted, and there is no doubt that the government has thought that there are policies in the changes that have been made now. They present it as new measures that are now coming, saluting the government. Then I have to say that I am very surprised at the Central Party and the Workers' Party, which says that this should never be done, especially not – and we can come back to it when we discuss the other issues – when there are acute things that occur, that are serious. So you have to cut your wings from being able to move money in these propositions that we treat just before Christmas. It has been done before, it has been done by governments before, and I think that should be possible, for that space of action should have both the Storting and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1760	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1778	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1785	So this is a similar case from the Ministry of Justice, and I'm not going to repeat the principle arguments from instead. They also apply to this one. Now we're in a very acute situation. We are told of very serious conditions in the refugee camps in Greece, partly also in Bosnia, but in Greece it has been going on for a long time. Now it is about — even some estimates — money that the Stortinget has granted to care for refugees and asylum seekers. They have not come to Norway because of closed borders. But they need, and the situation in the camps in Greece is disastrous. It's now that not everyone even gets food. The big organizations, like the Red Cross and the Refugee Aid, have pulled out of these camps because the situation is so terrible there. There's no food, there's no drugs, there's no clothes, there's no tent – everything's missing. There are lone minor asylum seekers there, there are children who are not allowed to go to school, there are lonely caregivers who are in a completely precarious situation without security. That is why we propose that the money we save for fewer asylum seekers to Norway should be used to accept some of the minor asylum seekers and some of the lonely caregivers who are in these camps in Greece, so that we can relieve Greece of some of the worst hardships there is. This is a handshake that Norway can afford, which we should do, and which will not be a problem either. Both Greece and the UN High Commissioner have asked European countries to relieve, and we should listen to that. In addition, we believe that some of the funds proposed for UNE and its procedural capacity should remain in the system, so that matters can be dealt with more quickly. We also believe that life support at reception should be increased. There have been reports showing that there is misnutrition at reception because the rates of living are now so low that people are actually almost hungry and are totally dependent on NGOs bringing food packages to them. Then we need to increase these rates, and that we also make this money transferable, so that you can increase the rates to the next year as well and at least make sure that those who sit there have food on the table. I'll deal with the suggestions that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1800	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1805	I'll be a little short. This applies to the 2019 ageing period. The fact that there is money left on an estimate to cover housing for asylum seekers is quite different from spending the money on relocalisation to Norway. It's a completely different issue, and it doesn't belong in a balancing debate. It belongs in a budget debate or in a matter of relocalisation. The same applies to increased rates of residence at the reception of asylum. There is something SV would like to discuss in the State budget, but not in the aging process. So this is money that's going to go back and get used up this year, so what SV really called for here is a little Christmas present for his nuclear electors. It is not a budgetary adjustment, it is a political wish of the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1812	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1817	I understand that there have been very little arguments when you believe that SV has nuclear electors in the camps in Greece or in reception. So there are people who have no voting rights anywhere. This is about us being in a situation where we have money, and where the need in Europe is screaming. I'm just recording that the majority in this hall is turning the blind eye to and won't do anything when we have the opportunity to do it. It also upsets me that they use purely formal arguments. There should be no need for formal arguments when it comes to relieving as grotesque distress as it is in the refugee camps in Greece, nor in the case of the request for help from Greece, which takes an unreasonable responsibility, which Norway and other European countries seem to be doing well, because Greece is spending in a neighbourhood that is in the process of breaking. There are probably some foreign policy overtones in this when we know that Erdogan is now about to release refugees into Europe. They now come to Greece, some of them have also moved on to Bosnia. There's the situation as bad. This is the reality, and the question is, are we going to do something to help these people who are in extreme distress, or are we not going to do it? SV suggests that we do that. I don't think it makes the bulk of the population credit that you don't want to discuss it or see if there's any way to do anything about the terrible distress that's in these refugee camps. It's very sad that today we can't get anything done using the money that's been allocated to refugees over last year's budget, and make sure that they benefit refugees, because the need is greater and more increasing than it was a year ago. Some of those who are now in great need are children who are alone, and who are left to other children in a refugee camp where there is scarce clothing and food. It's incredibly disappointing that the bulk of the population chooses both to keep this to themselves and to vote it down. I think that is actually shameful.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1834	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1851	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1858	Now we're at the Department of Knowledge, and there's been some political changes here that SV agrees with, and that the majority say they agree, that they give more money to build more student homes. Here it is not only a 90-post that has been expanded, as it was in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation's budget, but also money that has actually moved, to build more student homes. That's very good. But then there is also a need to follow up on the proposal we made in the previous case, namely to accept several refugees in Norway – that they also have some money in these budgets and make them transferable for the next year, and to ensure that it is possible to accept the refugees that will be accommodated within the appropriations we have proposed. In addition, SV also believes that there is a need to strengthen some of the voluntary organisations in this field, people working both in Norway and abroad. There are organisations such as: Salam, who works for the rights of gay Muslims, it is Caritas, who works with migrant workers and au pairs in Norway and has a great, good and extensive job, it is the Drop in the Sea, which is one of the few organisations that are in the refugee camps in Greece and can report from there on the situation, it is NOAS, which is an aid organisation to assist those seeking asylum in Norway, it is the MiRA Centre, which is engaged in equal opportunities work in the immigration population, and it is the project Sister to Sister, who works to prevent coerciveness and violence in close relations. So our proposals in this case are about making it possible for those responsible for integration to have the resources to receive the refugees from Greece that are available within the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and strengthening the voluntary organisations that are also to contribute to this important work. I'm addressing our suggestions in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1871	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1890	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1897	In the range of balances for 2019, we have come to the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. There are a number of minor changes to the proposal, but what is probably the big debate is about allowances and the purchase and sale of allowances, or rather the cancellation of allowances. Initially, I would like to look at Madrid and the climate summit that was there last week. It fully indicates that there are no other actors, no other continents that are in charge of cutting emissions, and that stand as united as the EU and Europe, and we in Norway have linked ourselves to EU policies. The amount of effort we're going through to 2030 to cut 40 pst. And that we're going to stick together is important. Then Norway – at least the GovernmentA, in the Granavolden Declaration – has said that we want to overfill and cut 45 pst. until 2030. The sale of allowances is part of this, where the GovernmentA proposes to transfer allowances from the allowance system to allowances. It's ambitious of Norway. While the world's climate emissions are increasing, we cut emissions in Norway for the third consecutive year, and we're going to continue with an ambitious policy. Taking out allowances is part of raising the list and making it more ambitious. What we are asking for in this aging process is really two things. One is to cut more domestically, to have an ambitious policy on it. In addition, we are also asking for a mandate to actually make less money on quota trade, and an estimated price of 160 million. kr just over the first five years. Then there are some suggestions from the opposition here, from the Workers' Party and SV, asking for an annual deletion. That proposal cannot be implemented. I record that there has been an alternative proposal, and that one is actually going to do what the government A says, that we're going to cut 45 pst. domestic, and that we're not going to use allowance trading to delete. So it's not possible to scale up these ratios so much. It's an annual account in terms of the budget that we have to deal with. Therefore, there will be a bit of pingpong from the opposition parties here when one does not fully understand how the allowance system can be used and what the instrument is and that one makes constant proposals for changes that are neither possible nor lead to major cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1908	I'm going to use my speaking time on the same theme as the chairman of the committee. In the proposal that comes from the government, it just opens up so that we can buy allowances that we can use instead of having national climate. This means that Norway no longer has a national climate target that is easy for people to deal with. The government's approach to climate policy makes it so incomprehensible that even members of the government do not know what is the government's climate policy. Climate policy needs the opposite. It needs us to set clear goals, so that people and businesses know what to do with. I believe that what the government is doing, obviously is bad climate policy, because it makes us perhaps not need to cut emissions as much as we should have done. We should not relax on our obligations. But what is done is also bad business policy, because this is cut, which has to be done at some point. The only thing we get is some postponements. We believe that we should invest the money in Norway, create new jobs and new technologies rather than buy ourselves free. Then we hear the Left, both in the post that we just heard, and we've heard Ola Elvestuen several times, entangled in a line of reasoning that this is really a good grip for the climate. I am absolutely sure that if Ola Elvestuen had been in opposition, he would not have said the same thing. Then it would be more honest if they said what it actually is: here they have lost a fight against Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen, they have had the decisive word. Again, the climate has lost the discussion. It's not just us saying -- a combined environmental movement says the same thing, and we hear it from many forces in business. On the same day that the government did this, Jens Ulltveit-Moe had a very interesting chronicle in the evening post, where he wrote, "To put in another slingstick is like pressing the slingshot button for Norwegian business." That's what we don't need. We don't need a slumber button either for business or for the climate, we don't need new excuses and new postponements. Therefore, Norway should instead look at what our neighbouring countries do. With the social democrats in the driver’s seat in both Denmark and Sweden, they have set a completely different pace for climate policy. The Swedish government, led by Stefan Löfven, says that they should not avail themselves of this opportunity. The Danish government, led by Mette Frederiksen, has presented Europe's most ambitious climate goals, where they will cut 70 pst. by 2030. It's showing leadership in a completely different way than what we see in Norway. There are very unclear signals coming from the government. Someone said what Ketil Kjeseth said. From the Prime Minister's office, it is said that this possibility should of course be used. We hear the Progress Party say the same thing. The only thing that's certain is that if we're not going to use this possibility by using these quotas, we actually have to adopt it, and that's what the Workers' Party has proposed. I address the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind with SV. It replaces what is the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1923	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1928	The outcome of the climate negotiations in Madrid was very disappointing. Despite the last year's school strikes from millions of school students around the world, climate noise and the fact that large parts of business want to make progress in climate change, the world's Environment Ministers have not been able to respond to the climate action that people around the globe require and that is needed to avoid the worst consequences of the climate crisis. This is why action in each country is becoming increasingly important. It is primarily rich countries such as Norway that can lead, develop technology, and show that we can have a well-functioning low-emission welfare society. The Norwegian response to the Madrid disappointment must be that at the beginning of February we are reporting increased ambitions for emissions cuts, to which we are obliged by the Paris Agreement. We have to make sure that the pace stays up. We cannot sit and wait for the EU to complete its rounds until we report our new targets. I therefore hope that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment will confirm in his statement that Norway will keep pace and that we will report our new targets in February next year. Furthermore, 2020 must be the year in which the government presents a plan for the Stortinget showing how Norway will cut its emissions by 2030. We need a broad consensus in the Stortinget on a climate settlement, so that we do not once again break the climate targets, as the government did when they broke the climate goal for 2020 in the autumn. It is then important that the allowances that the government intends to transfer from the EU quota system to the non-quota sector do not become a sleeper cushion, not a slumber button, as Jens Ulltveit-Moe said in a newspaper post earlier this autumn. Therefore, SV, together with the Workers' Party, has today proposed that the Storting establish that these allowances should not be used to cover the absence of domestic emission reductions, for which we have seen individual figures for the government parties. Only then can we say that this quota move contributes to greater emissions than we would otherwise have. If we don't fix this, there's reason to believe that strong forces in the government will use these allowances to cover up for a lack of effort here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1939	The outcome of the Madrid climate summit and its impact will be known in 2020, for the Madrid opinion clearly informs the world country of the need to strengthen its targets and report them to the UN in 2020. Norway has said that we want to strengthen our goals, and we have worked towards the EU, which made its contribution during the meeting, to increase their targets up to 55 p.m. We're working towards the EU to get them to land at 55 pst. Finally, we have now been given a joint EU decision on the 2030 climate change target and through it we are given the opportunity to transfer climate allowances from the EU ETS to the non-quota sector. In addition, we have to report to the EFTA Monitoring Programme by the end of 2019 whether we will transfer climate allowances in the period 2021-2030. That was the starting point, but everything in Iceland has not yet taken its decision, therefore this deadline is now likely to be at the end of January. We must report the day after Iceland has taken its decision at the earliest. The government will make use of this possibility, but the government's objective of reducing non-quota climate emissions through domestic measures is still firm, and we are planning on doing so further. We're going to put forward a proposal and a plan for next year on how to cut at least 45 pst. in Norway in the non-quota sector. Only if strictly necessary can the flexibility of the EU framework be used. Norway can transfer a total of barely 6 million climate allowances over the period 2021-2030. It's possible to make a review in 2026, so we now commit to transferring 3 million allowances. Norway receives annually a certain amount of climate allowances that we are auctioning away to European companies participating in the EU ETS. Climate allowances transferred by Norway will be taken from the annual Norwegian auction volume. That is, if we don't do this, they're just going to be sold in the allowance market. The transfers of climate allowances will, in isolation, reduce emissions within the allowance system. If the transferred allowances are not used against the mandatory non-quota sector, they will be cancelled after settlement for the 2030 emission year and thus contribute to over-fulfilling of climate obligations at European level. This is the government's plan. So, the request decision proposed is what the government wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1955	This is a rather important issue, although it may appear to be a little technical, because it is therefore a question of exploiting the possibility that the agreement with the EU has given us to transfer allowances from the ETS, i.e. from the quota-based sector to the non-quota sector. What we just heard was a government council saying that the government's goal – I think it should be understood as ambition – is that it is preferable not to use this opportunity to actually increase the emission potential of the ETS sector. If that's the government's goal, then why not vote for it in the Storting, so that we can fix it once and for all? The document we have received shows that this is a reserve to be used if you do not succeed on your own. It is precisely the slumber button that several of my colleagues have been in for. Why not then decide here and now that we are not going to use that opportunity? Then we connect to the mast, and we know what we have to plan for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1970	That's because I don't see any reason why the Storting should ask the government to do what the government intends to do, and that government is leading a policy to do, and that we're coming up with a plan for next year, precisely because we're going to have at least 45 pst. reduction and over-fulfilment of the EU commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1976	I'm a little uncertain about how I'm going to interpret this, because on the one hand we're going to hear that this is a reserve that you'd rather not use. And then we're told that it's the government's goal not to use it, but it's not the will to decide that it's not to be used. The difference between the government's proposal and the SV and the Labour Party's proposal is that we decide in the form of decisions that we decide here and now not to use it, i.e. we commit to the mast. I didn't realize that the Council of State agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1981	What I'm saying is that the government's policy and plan is that we should over-achieve the goal in the non-quota sector, but that we should present a plan for next year that we should have at least 45 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1986	To the question of this set-off: if we don't put it aside, it will only be used in the quota sector and sold out. Now, if we set it aside, the goal is that when this count is done in 2026, 2030, these allowances could be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1989	I have to say, this is a little confusing. The Council of State says that the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals are government policies, but will not vote for them, and in its replies to the representative Barth Eide, the Council of State says that the goal of the government is that these quotas are not used. That's also what's in the proposition. My questions to the Council of State are: Is it such that all the government parties clearly and clearly state that it is not at all relevant to use these quotas to cover the lack of effort at home, and will it be established when the government comes up with its climate plan next year that these quotas should not be used to cover the lack of effort at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e1996	The overall plan of the government is to cut more than 45 pst. in the non-quota sector by 2030, and we will present that plan for next year. With the implementation of that plan, there will be no need to use this flexibility. We overfill, and these can be deleted in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2001	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2008	If someone had to be confused about what the government's policy is, I'm not sure that something became clearer now, but I'm still interpreting it so that you would like to see it in a situation where you don't use these extra 'emission quotas' in the non-quota sector, but that you reserve the opportunity to use them. At least that's what we got from the government, which says that credits held in this account can only be used if Norway has a deficit, that is. that we have not met the annual emission budget through domestic emission reductions or the exploitation of other forms of flexibility. In other words, you can use them, so if you decide what the government has proposed, you can use them. It is well and good that you have a desire to try to avoid it. It's a wish we share, but we believe that in the time of the climate crisis and right after Madrid, we would stand by to establish it. The problem here is that what is basically a very good news about which we are practically all united, namely that we have committed ourselves to the EU's excellent plan for a more ambitious climate policy, has opened up a little loophole, that is, this transfer, which makes us, for the first time in principle, suddenly standing without an absolute national target for the non-quota sector. That is why I cannot understand why at least the representatives of the Left do not want to vote for us to make this quite concrete. I want to use the opportunity to hear what the other government parties think. In the public vocabulary, for example, The Progress Party may have placed a little more emphasis on that reserve potential and the possibility of using it, so it would have been useful if we had heard here in the Chamber whether it is that the whole government and its parliamentary basis are united, or whether there is actually a slightly different view of how this possibility should be exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2017	I am pleased that we have this debate in the Chamber, because what it illustrates is that the differences in Norwegian climate policy are often quite small. So I understand that the opposition has a need to make something big out of something small. It makes the opposition a constant feature of this big business. But it's just to read what the government parties write in their comments on this case, that the transfer of climate allowances allows for further reductions in total emissions. In fact, the transfer of allowances to a separate closed account means that the allowances are not used and that it will lead in isolation to reduced emissions in the ETS sector. This is what government parties have written in their comments. For those who didn't have to read these comments, it must sound very strange with all the stand-up from the opposition – what it's really about. It's just to read what's on the government platform, and which is the policy that this government delivers, that is, it's planned to take our emissions nationally. That is also why the 2030 Climate Action Programme has been ordered, and a concrete plan for all sectors will come from this government. I understand why the Workers' Party acts as they do. I understand why the Socialist Left Party acts as they do. Selective studies now on climate credibility show that the credibility of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party on this issue goes down, and that it looks different for the Right-wing Party – where it goes up. It is clear that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party must come up with some rhetorical curvatures now. But it is not that we are being taught in climate policy from parties that are opposed to cooperating on renewable energy in Europe. We are not being taught in climate policy by parties supporting a planned train chaos because in Europe we want to implement a policy that makes it easier to take trains across borders and reduce emissions from the transport sector. It is not possible to be taught in climate policy by parties that say that they are promoting new proposals to achieve the 2020 targets, while the fact is that they have not made one proposal that would make the process of achieving the 2020 targets faster. Then there'll be only rhetoric left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2024	The representative Espen Barth Eide wanted to know what the government stands for, and then I was a little tempted to go up and really confirm what was said here. But my starting point is probably slightly different, because I must honestly say that I often do not understand the issues in the Norwegian climate debate. Of course, when we're going to cut domestic quotas, it's a challenge to do, and we require international agreements. When we take allowances from the quota sector into the non-quota sector, we are required to keep them there. The opposition is so horrific that Norway has an advantage that we can take advantage of in a given situation. I can't understand that's a problem. If, through our decisions, we can achieve results cost-effectively and well, the Advance Party must be involved in taking the quotas domestically, but, as our government statement says, we should bypass if necessary. At the same time, I would like to challenge the representative, Åsmund Aukrust, who is able to make this a problem for the climate. Of course, Norway is going to cut some allowances at home and for others, but with this system, which we're required to have, I can't with my best will and my best calculator to see that the climate is losing anything. We are going to have a climate policy that cuts quotas, which has a cost-benefit effect that benefits the climate, and we are going to have a technology development that will bring Norway forward, which is going to take the world further. In precisely these areas, I am sure that the government will deliver, that Norway will deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2031	Comrade Halleland was exemplaryly honest and shows for this room the disagreement within the government parties. Comrade Halleland confirms what the opposition says, that strong forces within the government want to use these quotas to weaken their efforts at home. I wish other representatives from the government parties had the courage to hold. This is also stated in the summary in the setting of this case. The first sentence below the part concerned is: ‘In order to ensure greater certainty that Norway will be able to meet the annual emission budgets for the period 2021-2030, the Government proposes that Norway notify an intention to convert annual allowances from the European ETS (EU Emission Trading System) [[EU ETS]] I repeat the first part: ‘In order to achieve greater certainty that Norway will be able to meet the annual emissions budgets for the period 2021 to 2030’ – there is nothing to say about increasing global emissions. No, what that statement shows is that you're going to be able to use those allowances to cover the lack of effort on the home track. Then we hear the representative Heggelund talk about the small differences in Norwegian climate policy. Yes, it would have been just as well. The representative also says that no proposals have been submitted that would have progressed in achieving the 2020 targets. Well, then I think I have to remind the representative Heggelund of the plan that SV presented before the 2017 elections, which meant an emission cut in the years that we soon have behind us, which would make us achieve the climate goals that Norway set itself. In fact, there have been some 90 proposals in this Chamber that the government has unfortunately voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2043	The representative of Halleland is certainly a friend, but not from the pulpit – then he is just a representative of Halleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2049	This became a very illustrative debate on what this really is about. When I heard the post to Stefan Heggelund, I thought that the worse things you have, the higher the voice you use. Because there was talk of privatisation of the railway. It was about ACER. There was talk about things that have nothing to do with the matter we are now discussing. What we're now discussing is that the government is opening up so that it can have less national emissions cut by using allowances internationally. Actually, this is not a new debate. When the Workers' Party proposed this together with the SV and the Environmental Party The Greens when the climate strategy was being addressed almost two years ago, we were met with massive attacks from the Right and the Advance Party, which thought that this was totally wrong climate policy. Now they're trying to pretend they've actually agreed all the way, but it was a massive attack when the Workers' Party suggested this for the first time. The left has kind of shifted the side. When the message came, Ola Elvestuen said that the message presented by climate minister Vidar Helgesen was not good enough, precisely because they opened up to what he himself is responsible for. The Christian People's Party has stopped talking about climate in recent years. Ola Elvestuen said in the change of lines that the reason for not voting for this proposal was that it was what the government meant. It's interesting to hear what the other government partners say. The Prime Minister's personal adviser went into frontal attacks on the Labour Party's policy and wrote that the Workers' Party has changed its positions. So I'm going to write, what do you mean? – That we need to use flexibility within the EU framework, of course. That's what the Prime Minister's office says. Terje Halleland goes up after hearing Ola Elvestuen and says that this is not government policy. I disagree with Terje Halleland, but I appreciate him being honest. He says what is actually government policy. He doesn't try to misplace it and explain it in any other words. He says what it is. Now I see the Left on the list of speakers. Then they will probably say that they should only do this if it is strictly necessary. But who is to judge whether this is strictly necessary? Of course, it's Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg, and then we know what the fasit is. What we're getting now are some new slumber buttons. We're getting some new postponements. The left has gone on a new big climate decline, and it would have been better if they said what it was, instead of trying to introduce and wrap this up as a good climate policy, because no one believes in it. It is only the government's own members who believe this is a proper grip for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2062	In fact, Norway cuts emissions, and I am pleased that the Left is in the process. This is a rather technical debate on the quota-free sector and non-quota sector and possible flexibility. The Aukrust representative is interested in innovation. It's going to happen in a big month in Norway. Here's where the electric car revolution happens in practice. That's where we're now building 70-80 ships that are going to go on electricity and various hybrid fuels. We've put it at 2.3 billion. kr to a liquid offshore wind project headed by Equinor, and in the quota sector we are the first country in the world to introduce biofuel integration requirements. There's a lot of innovation going on in Norway. We're discussing a 160 million savings. kr during the period 2021 to 2025. We take money out of the budget, and we take control of where the emissions can happen. That's what we do in practice. It is not possible to create an average rule for cutting emissions. They have to be cut year by year if a tech has to go in to erase something. Instead of a sleeper button, this is more of a safety valve, and we decide for ourselves. Who is Prime Minister in the period 2021–2030, which we are talking about here, no one is given to know today. This is not a defeat; it is a tiny bit of flexibility. The ambition is to cut 45 pst. domestic. In cooperation with the European Union, which we have committed ourselves to, it is very likely that we will actually cut 55 pst. It's enormously ambitious. We are actually here discussing that the opposition is lagging behind in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2073	Lars Haltbrecken quoted me, and he made it wrong. He said that I said there were generally slight differences in climate policy. I didn't say that. What I said was that there is little difference in Norwegian climate policy in some areas. The debate we have now shows that there is little difference in Norwegian climate policy in this particular area. But I understand, as I said, why the opposition needs to make a statement about this when it goes so bad for them with the climate diversity of Norwegian voters. The representative Haltbrecken mentioned what SV went to elections on when it came to the 2020 targets. The plan for SV was so poor that SV actually went to the elections to break the 2020 targets. I think it's good to inform about when you're standing and boasting of your own plan. To the representative Åsmund Aukrust: If he thinks that I am the only one in this room who speaks loudly from the pulpit again and again, I recommend that he start to see himself a little from the outside. I reserve the right to talk about concrete climate action in a debate on how to achieve climate objectives. That is why I mentioned some concrete climate measures that cut emissions – both in the quota and in the non-quota sector. So the Labour Party and the Socialist Left support a strike, a planned train chaos, towards policies that make it easier to take trains across national borders. I would like to say that you can publish so many pictures on Facebook that you just want to take a night and night, but if you are not willing to support the policy that is necessary to make it easier to take trains across borders, and to cut transport emissions in Europe, you don't have much to go with. If we vote against cooperation on renewable energy in Europe to push coal out, there is not much to be done in climate policy. These are perfectly relevant examples to mention in a debate on how Norway and Europe will achieve their climate objectives. It's no wonder to talk about it at all. One of the major differences in Norwegian climate policy now is between those who are actually delivering new policies with a comprehensive plan for all sectors in order for us to achieve our objectives, and those who are later as if they are doing so, but are only able to present proposals that the government is already largely in the process of implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2086	I would say that during this debate we have at least become a lot wiser about what is government and government party policy. When we got in here, we thought there were two different positions in the government, but then we see that there are really three. They're the ones who think there's no flexibility here at all, because flexibility shouldn't be used. Those are those who believe that the Halleland representative – I was saying that the representative outside the room is known as comrade Halleland – says that this is a flexibility one must be able to use. And then there's the new position of the representative Kjeseth: that it's a tiny little bit of flexibility, or a safety valve, and that's a word we might well adopt. So that means there's a safety valve you can use. Then we establish that there is a difference between the opposition, represented by SV and the Workers' Party, and the position. We believe that we should now establish that exactly this safety valve we do not want. Then you can ask yourself why you don't want a safety valve, because in many other ways it's quite wise to have it. In this case, it is because it is important that we have a very clear and crystal clear governance signal for Norwegian society, for Norwegian business: we need to achieve the objectives we have set in line with the Paris agreement, according to the quota sector. We don't want to get to them, try to get to them or enjoy it if it happens to be so that we get to them: we're going to control it by getting to them. Then I agree with representatives here who say that we need a plan to achieve the goals. We're really looking forward to working on those plans for how to achieve our goals. But then you have to initially know what the goal is. What has actually happened, within an overall, good history, namely our close cooperation with the EU that almost the entire hall here, from outer right to outer left, has voted for, has opened up the possibility of no longer having a crystal clear target in the non-quota sector. It is good to reduce the allowances that you have in the quota sector, but it is no good if you have an opportunity to use them in non-quota sectors instead. So we're on a proposal that says we're going to establish now that we can convert them. Then we take them out of the ETS, and then there'll be a little less emissions in the quota sector, and that's a good thing. But we're going to decide by decision in Stortinget that we're not going to make use of exactly the flexibility that we get at the top of the space for emissions we already had in the non-quota sector. I believe that it is very clear that the opposition is clear and clear, and I believe that the government parties have three different variants of the same proposal, and it has not become any clearer to me that the government is united in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2097	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2102	The representative, Kjeseth, says Norway is cutting emissions. Yes, one of the years that the government has ruled, Norway has cut emissions by getting Norwegian drivers to drive with an orangutan on the tank. I don't know if that's something you should be proud of. It is also said that the opposition is following. Well, then I dare ask the representative from the left where left was when SV suggested that Norway cut its emissions by 60 pst. by 2030. It is also said by the representative Heggelund that it is not strange to talk about concrete climate action in this debate. I agree. But then categorically refraining from mentioning climate action has itself been voted against, such as better night and in-house in Norway, as a night and night connection to Berlin, as a better train connection to Hamburg, Copenhagen, Stockholm and Gothenburg... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2111	Then the minute has run out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2116	The previous speaker, the representative Lars Haltbrecken, gave me a very good opportunity to talk about biofuels. In 2009 — the orangutan that the representative Haltbrecken likes to talk about, or to bathe in palm oil — the red-green government imposed a user charge, which put a stop to biofuel production in Norway. There was a bomb stop. From 2017, the escalation of blending of biofuels in Norway has gone from 4 to 8, 12 and now 20 pst. It is one of the largest emissions cuts in the transport sector, i.e. in the non-quota sector. If that said SV at the time that it is completely impossible to get 20 pst. blending of biofuels. Then there's been some palm oil in it. But as an example, we've gone from 300 million. litres down to less than 50 million. liters already this year, so that proportion is on its way out. Unfortunately, it is only transferred to the EU, which has not set any requirements and which is to have a 3.5 pst incorporation. Next year. It shows how far after the rest of the world and how far ahead Norway is. It is we who are implementing the concrete measures: cut emissions in the transport sector, electrification in the passenger car sector and also biofuels for the buses. That's what we need to talk about. That's what makes Norway where we are, that we're actually cutting emissions, while the rest of the world is increasing emissions. That's the path we have to continue on. Flexibility is marginal for Norway because there is an annual allowance that may be made available and it is not possible to borrow from the future. I think Denmark will have a rather heated discussion about how to cut their 70 pst. But the EU says they're going to be with Norway at 55 pst. Cut, cut, There are great ambitions ahead of us, and here the government parties speak with one voice. We take money out of the market, we take allowances out of the market, and we ensure control of how emissions are used in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2127	The representative Stefan Heggelund has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2132	It's funny when the Socialist Left Party tries to give the impression that nothing has happened on trains. The railway reform reduces prices and improves quality. Some companies will actually pay to be allowed to operate train sections. No one loses the job, but the price the government pays is falling by 75 pst. At the same time, we're going to get better cars, better food and better offers because you actually have to compete to run a railway line. Then there is a policy in Europe that is about making it easier to take trains between borders. Both of these measures are the Socialist Left Party against. They have nothing to do with concrete measures to cut emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2157	The rapporteur, Mr Ketil Kjenseth, has 15 minutes of speaking time, but it is allowed to be brief.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2162	We are continuing in the range of balances in the 2019 budget. Some people obviously believe that there is so much money left to pick up that we can build an entire terminal for the landing of oil at Veidnes in Finnmark. That's what the debate is going to be about. Essentially, there were no special changes in aging, so I don't think I'm going to start with so much more than this. We'll continue with a little bit of the climate debate we've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2167	It was exemplary. The representative Espen Barth Eide also has 15 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2172	I look forward to spending 15 minutes on this. I just want to stress that this is a big and important matter in which we are going to vote for some proposals that were submitted by SV, and which they will well present. It is very important for us to find that local ring-effects are a central part of the social contract in terms of oil development. It was extremely important in the years when South-West, Western and subsequently Middle-Norway were expanded, and great expectations were also created in Finnmark when it was said that they were planning for a terminal at Veidnes. Then it turned out that there were broken expectations. We understand that there are some private economic reasoning about this, but we believe this matter is important in order to maintain support for an important industry in Norway in a part of the country that still has it, and we believe it is very serious that expectations are not met. That is why we support these proposals, and we believe that this is right. They will be presented by the proposer after me, but they are on the table, and I recommend the Workers' Party to vote in favour of all three proposals. We come back to more reasoning for that in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2183	The representative has 15 minutes, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2188	The president can take it easy. I just brought all the papers to make sure I got the right posts. Here is also the setting for the file map of the day on Stortinget. On Friday, the news came that Equinor would not land the oil from the Johan Castberg field to Finnmark. We have to say that this is the story of the oil adventure in Finnmark in a nutshell. It is not the first time that oil companies promise gold and green forests, provide massive support for the development of an oil field that will cost the climate dearly and can cause great damage to fisheries and vulnerable nature. I'm afraid the oil companies are doing it deliberately. I fear that they promise many jobs and major ring-effects knowing that they will not be paid – only for local support. It's just to look at the promises that were given when the Goliath field was to be expanded. In the beginning, this oil was also to be landed. Many felt cheated as nothing happened. Do the majority of people have reason to feel cheated, as many people have expressed? In that case, I'd say you've been across the naïve. You have too much pride in the many promises that have come and that have proved to be broken over and over again. There has been no lack of ability to claim the oil companies. SV believes that Johan Castberg development has a very high price for the environment. The greenhouse gas emissions will give rise to and the risk taken in view of the impacts on fisheries and the vulnerable nature is high. But we realize that the bulk of the population has wanted to take this risk. In order to ensure that those who take the main weight of this risk will also be left with some of the gain, we have twice as much earlier here in the United Kingdom proposed that oil companies should land the oil, so that those who live with the consequences of the expansion will also have something left. So far, unfortunately, the majority in this Chamber have not voted to make these demands on Equinor. After reading the strong reactions from saying all the parties in this room after Friday's decision not to land the oil, we will give the Storting a new chance. That is why today we are promoting three proposals that will make demands on Equinor and on the government. We will demand Equinor to land the oil with which they were lured when it was drunk champagne on Veidnes in 2013. In addition, we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a Finnish Food Fund to ensure that the population is provided with financial resources to create jobs in renewable industries. Finally, we propose that the use of local contractors be required in the context of development. Thus, those who have expressed great dissatisfaction with Equinor's decision after Friday can show that they are not content to express their dissatisfaction, but that they are using the position they have as big-scale politicians to make demands on the oil companies. I am very happy to hear that the Workers' Party supports our proposals. In the case of those who, on the other hand, once again vote against our proposals – if there are any who do – the tears that came on Friday must be characterized as crocodile tears and a game for the gallery. I'll bring it up to you the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2205	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2210	The centre party was disappointed by the decision not to build landing facilities on Veidnes in Finnmark. As the representative Haltbrecken said, in 2013 it was toasted in champagne for such a promise of its own terminal. It was part of the concept that Equinor, then Statoil, presented to Castberg. It created great expectations locally, but also nationally. There are important, central premises for the decision that have not been taken, but the need and expectations of those jobs at local level are still the same. The centre batch has been concerned that the petroleum industry will provide jobs and economic development throughout the country — offshore, but not least on land. This has been the basic plan of Norwegian petroleum policy in many ways since the adoption by the Stortinget of the ‘ten oil bids’ in 1971, and one of the most important bids was that the resources on Norwegian soil were to be landed in Norway as a primary principle. Therefore, the Centre Party is today committed to supporting SV’s three proposals, as it is a prerequisite for continued Norwegian oil extraction that it produces positive ring-effects throughout the country and locally in the region. And as the representative Barth Eide said, it is perhaps more important than ever for the legitimacy of the oil industry, that we actually make sure that resources benefit mainland Norway in terms of value creation, but also in terms of local jobs and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2219	We have experienced 50 years of petroleum activity in Norway. It's been 50 very good years. We have created activity and great values throughout the country. Now it was supposed to be North Norway's turn. We've had good activity in North Norway. Several projects have been put into operation, and we see that it has good ring-effects. Castberg has been with us in many rounds, and it's probably hard to say it more clearly than what this hall has done, that we want there to be even greater ring-effects from Castberg when the field starts. That is why it is very disappointing when you are unable to obtain measures that were promised so much earlier. I am a little surprised at the price that is being suggested. I think it is strange that you have not tried to go for other models that have reduced the price. Here, people have gone out and created expectations, and that of course makes people at local level have had expectations. I think it's very important to bring with it the whole story. Times have changed. When one was up at Veidnes and drank champagne, the oil price was 120 dollars. One had a break-even on Castberg at $80. We know that those times are no longer there. But anyway, all the honor to the industry, which is able to make a project that lowers "break even" from 80 dollars down to 35 dollars. And when we know today's oil price, the difference between the two amounts is not so terrible. I had hoped that the companies that are active up there together would have found solutions, and I really hope now that one can still find solutions that we can all see served. But it's improperly strange when a party that's against the whole project, who doesn't want this activity, who doesn't want that oil, suggests that it should in any case land. I hope that the parties who vote in favour of this proposal will join and further develop North Norway, join and further develop the Barents Sea, for whatever is built on Veidnes, there will be a demand that later findings be linked to it in order to create the necessary values that a scaled-down terminal will need on Veidnes. So I hope that in the future we will look a lot in the Barents Sea. Let's hope that we find that there's going to be drifting findings, which in turn will guarantee more activity throughout the region and all over North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2234	I think it's important to bring the history here, as other representatives have also been in the pulpit. We are living at a time when industrial workers in the petroleum sector feel that the job they do, the value they represent, the income they bring into the community, is being grumbled, especially by batches on the left. Then there are still some parts of the country calling for that type of labour, who want to welcome that type of labour. In this connection, Equinor – then Statoil – went to Finnmark, toasted in champagne and said that this labourer will come here. Then it's nothing but incredibly disappointing, even in view of the signals sent from this hall, that Equinor doesn't deliver on that promise. But in this history, it is also important to remember what we agreed on in this room when we dealt with Castberg, what the government parties agreed with the Workers' Party and the Center Party on. It was that this should of course be socially viable and that a decision should be based on the principles of good resource management, as we have been doing petroleum policy in Norway every year. These proposals, which I hear are that the Workers' Party and the Centre have today intended to support, are in reality a breach of the way in which Norwegian petroleum policy has been driven. But they vote for – for purely opportunistic reasons. These proposals are not new. Similar proposals were made when we dealt with Castberg, and then the Workers' Party and the Centre voted against, because they knew that there would be a break in the way you conduct petroleum policy. So the question is, now that the Socialist Left Party has the opportunity, when this question is up again, why doesn't the Socialist Left Party promote its primary position, which is that Castberg shouldn't be a part of it? Where is the proposal to reverse the decision on Castberg? This is the primary position of the Socialist Left in this matter, and when we deal with it here, it is strange that that proposal does not come. Had it been up to the Socialist Left Party, there would have been no Castberg, and there would have been nothing to land. Where is the proposal? That is the question to the representatives of SV. If you had done this, there are actually four ways it could have happened: One is that Equinor could have kept his promise, and that's what they should have done. The second is that the country should somehow be a partner in the investments. It would also be a breach of the way in which we operate, and no concrete proposal has been made as far as I can see. The third is that you could have changed the Petroleum Act so that shipping would be part of it, but it would have had a significant impact on all other shipping on the Norwegian base, and I have not heard any parties agree to it, probably with that justification. The fourth option is – if you really want this and realize that the other ways do not work – to go in, throw the board into Equinor and put in a new board with a clear mandate to do so. It's an act that parties that the Socialist Left Party has proposed in previous contexts, but that the Labour Party and the Center Party have been against, because they understand what it means to operate with professional ownership management. It is disappointing that Equinor took the decision they made. But it does not help anyone that the Socialist Left hides their primary positions from the outside world, which is to reverse Castberg, and then there will be no landing at all. Nor does it help anyone that the Workers' Party and the Centre's party now depart from the long lines that have been in Norwegian petroleum policy, and vote for proposals that they voted against before the summer. Everybody understands what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2265	In this case, it is allowed to be disappointed. It's signed, too. This thing has a story in it, and it's long. There's a lot of history in this case that makes us even stand here in the hall today and debate it. On 10 April 2018, the Storting was presented with the proposal for the expansion of this field – Johan Castberg in the Barents Sea. The development plan was addressed on the basis of the transport of crude oil directly from the field to the market. The size was included in the development plan on 11 June 2018. I record that Stortinget did not join a proposal from SV and MDG – similar to what is proposal No. 1 today. Then we came to June 28, 2018. Then the Ministry of Oil and Energy approved the development plan. During the examination of the proposal, the Stortinget took two request decisions relating to the transfer of crude oil at Weidnes in Finnmark. I have followed up on these request decisions in Prop. 1 S for 2018-2019, Prop. 41 S for 2018-2019 and Prop. 1 S for 2019-2020. It is the companies that decide how the oil from the Castberg field is to be transported to the market. It also applies to Equinor. These are business decisions to be taken by the board of directors of the companies and by the administration. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has been informed by the companies and by the licence through the job done that the decision-making basis on which the companies have made their decision shows that a reduced terminal at Veidnes would lead to an investment of about 2.4 billion. kr and a negative present value before tax of approximately SEK 3,6 billion. kr – compared to transporting the oil directly from the field to the market. Although we ignore significant investments, the operation of a downgraded terminal would also suffer losses. The investigation also shows that oil transhipment has a negative present value before tax of about 2.9 billion. kr, although the volume of oil from other potential field developments is included in the Barents Sea. As I said, there's a long story in this case, and basically I was prepared to go through it. Several representatives have explained this story. As I said in the introduction, there is reason to be disappointed. I have been rapporteur for eight years in my home municipality, Hadsel in the Vesterålen. I know the importance of companies that want to set up businesses, and the importance it has for building communities. It's quite correct, as has been said from the pulpit, that some promises were made, it was given a picture of an activity that is not going to be like this today. I think that's very bad. I know that, and I realize that it's disappointment, I realize it's irritation. I just want to be clear. There were some who expressed this expectation of activity, and those who expressed it have a responsibility. I record that the licensee has signaled that they want to build up an activity as a result of the activity of Johan Castberg around the high school in Nordkapp. I think that's good, I think it's positive, even though it doesn't pay for that disappointment. In the history of the project that was celebrated in its time, but of which there was nothing, we must also bear in mind that there has been an oil price drop. The estimation underlying this expansion has been examined and found that the estimation of the quantity of oil was not what was thought to be, which has changed these assumptions. I think we have something to learn from, and it definitely also has something to learn from -- how to express expectations, and how to fulfill them. I did not join Veidnes and drank champagne that time, but I can say that this matter concerns me so carefully that I am going to have problems drinking champagne in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2288	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2293	On April 22, 2015, a representative of the Promskrittspartiet and Finnmark Jan-Henrik Fredriksen was pleased to say that he considered the landing of the oil from the Johan Castberg field to be the nail. What does the Council of State say about this today, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that landings are carried out, as Statoil, now Equinor, promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2300	As I was in my post, and as several representatives have been involved: going back to 2011, 2012 and 2013, it is that what was celebrated at Veidnes was based on something other than what you know today, and that is the basis for the decision that companies have taken on development solutions. I refer to what the Storting did when they were presented with the proposition, and then the Storting treated this. The leadership that was laid down, to which I referred, has been followed up, and the companies have made their decision based on business principles relating to profitability. And there's no doubt that this project is not just unprofitable, it's extremely unprofitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2313	I want to ask the Council of State further, because as I put it, this is not the first time the oil companies have tricked the population in the north in view of the employment gains and the ring-fences that the expansion of oil platforms in the Barents Sea will bring. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State think about the further development of oil activities in the Barents Sea about oil companies going on and on to break the promises they make to the local population?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2320	I am absolutely sure that I and the representative Haltbrecken disagree about the further development of the Barents Sea. I am pleased with the commitment to ring-effects from the representative Haltbrecken, but I would like to make it clear that I am in favour of petroleum activity and equally for ring-effects. No matter how we turn this around, it's going to be ring-effects from Johan Castberg. The calculations that were also visible when the PUD was treated show that there are actually significant ring-effects completely independent of the scaled-down terminal, which of course had given more employees, there is no doubt. Estimates show that 470 people will be associated with this field as permanent employees from North Norway, most from Troms and Finnmark, and many from Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2327	Yes, the signed and state councils probably think a lot differently about the oil business in the Barents Sea. But my question now is: is there a limit to the Council of State for how many commitments the local population in the north will have to face from the oil companies before the Council of State also says that enough is enough – that either the promises have to be met, or that they do not have access to these fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2332	It's not that easy to regulate people and companies that express opinions about what they want to do. But I can see, frankly, that the company has taken on board that there was an expectation taken into account the story here. I understand that the companies have actually done a job to find out if there is a basis for building a downscaled terminal. Then comes this investigation that has been done – a thorough investigation, where the companies themselves point out that you have turned all the stones – out with the numbers it does. And on that basis, the companies have made their decision. But I think there's a lesson in this case for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2339	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2344	The representative Heggelund believes in SV is hiding our oil position. Then I think we can say that the representative must have followed extremely poorly. It's easy to be after-taste when you have the fasitium, and in the case of the Finnish oil industry, it might be particularly easy. Because what we see with the Johan Castberg field now, we've seen before. The Goliath field is already being developed, and it does not have landings either. I've been following the plans of the oil industry in Finnmark for 15 years, and the story is repeating itself. First, the oil company goes out with plans for landing. Locally toasted in champagne, and cakes are eaten, preferably made by the oil industry. Then the oil company gets a lot of support and cheers for its plans. Then it goes a few years, and vips -- the plans for landing are set aside. And this can be done by the oil companies without fear of consequences, because although several politicians have been high and dark and said that the oil must be on land, otherwise it remains lying down, one has been remarkably little willing to actually put power behind the demands. The same thing is repeated here in the Chamber: it is a pity that this oil does not land. But then it's alarming how tough politicians here are towards the oil industry. The whole of Norway’s oil industry shows that the oil must be controlled politically. If the politicians hadn't made demands on the international oil companies since the 1970s, they would have come here, pumped up our oil and pulled out, without us having had the amazing ringing effects we've had. Equinor — or Eni, for that matter — has no self-interest in landing or local suppliers. They have their own bottom line to think about, not the host municipality's economy. Then the representatives here would like to say from this pulpit that it is a pity not to be allowed to land. But you demonstrate nothing but your own impotence. In conclusion, it must be a gigantic cross of thought for the parties that then wholeheartedly support these developments, that both the Goliath and Johan Castberg fields are so marginal projects in the Barents Sea that a landing overturns profitability. The Goliath field is probably already a total loss project for the Norwegian state, and it will be exciting to see the Johan Castberg field fascination, which will produce oil at a time when the whole world is working to make itself independent of just fossil energy, and the cost of renewable energy falls. Johan Sebastian Welhaven said in his poem «Republicans»: "They looked at each other. He walked his way. They had champagne, but they didn't touch it."
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2365	Friday 13th has always been an accident day. Friday 13 December was an accident day for Norwegian oil and petroleum industries. Many have been up here and said that they are disappointed with the decisions of the companies that are behind the Johan Castberg field. I'm not just disappointed. I'm cursed on a good North Norwegian plane, with all due respect. When the decision from Equinor, Our Energy and Petoro is that they're dropping the landing of oil in Finnmark, I'm worried. It can be seen that some costs are linked to the project with reduced terminal berths of 3.6 billion. kr. It's almost a double since the PUD was presented. When one and only almost directly links them up to the 50 year works to be on the terminal, I'm a little worried. You can take a look at Hammerfest and look at the regional ringing effects Melkoya has created in addition to those directly linked to the process facility. When you see that the costs since the PUD was presented have almost doubled until the decision was taken, the questions arise. Is there a conscious conclusion to exclude landings? Several have been up here and said that they are disappointed. Yes, I'm very disappointed, I'm very pissed. The decisions of the oil companies will have adverse consequences for jobs and value creation, and not least for the inhabitants of Finnmark and North Norway. People here have had expectations precisely because the companies have created these expectations. We are now in a time when political opposition to the oil industry is growing strongly, from the extreme left, from the MDG, in the Workers' Party and, in fact, also in the Right Government Party. We see an increasing fight to limit Norway's main industry. It is simply incomprehensible that these oil companies do not see the political benefit of implementing the project with a landing despite the short-term financial loss involved. If an oil activity in the Barents Sea does not produce the expected ring-effects, the resistance to the oil activity in the north will escalate. It has been said that this resolution is more important than ever. We celebrate 50 years with petroleum activity in Norway. The decision made by Equinor, Petoro and Our Energy is probably the first nail in the chest for Norwegian petroleum industry, given that they do not have the same legitimacy and support in the population. Here the companies have not just kept Nordkapp a municipality for fools. They've been fooling around all over the country. We live at a time when the oil workers feel that they are being mutilated for their work. I don't think the decision from Equinor, Our Energy and Petoro will improve. When you look at the cost – what is 3.6 billion? kr in reduced revenues for AS Norway in Johan Castberg’s operating time measured against the social benefits and ring-fences a landing would provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2380	The president understood it so that the representative himself was aware that he used an unparliamentary expression. It didn't make it better that he used it twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2385	Friday 13th is perhaps a suitable day for bad news and a breach of promises. Equinor chose at least this day to try to put the nail in the landing box once and for all. The integration of the north oil industry has always been linked to the potential for local ring effects. Why should we be left with the risk of extraction, but completely out of activity and out of jobs? Local support for this project has been crucial for the implementation of the plans. Unfortunately, it is now clear that local support has built on promises that will never be fulfilled. Because promises mean little, spreading champagne means even less. I understand that many people have had a great desire to have ring effects, and a desire to have ring effects so much that they have believed in Statoil's beautiful promises. But even though Statoil has changed clothes, the rumor will hang with them in North Norway. The words used in this matter by local and central politicians in Finnmark and by people most, are hardly approved vocabulary from this pulpit, because you are more than just disappointed, you are actually as angry as only Finnmarks that have once again been led behind the light and are not being satisfied with the development that other parts of the country have been given. For the consequences of it not being landed, is greater than that the minister will no longer be able to enjoy his champagne. It's not just the champagne that's got a bismach, it's got the oil, too. But there can be no doubt about what the Workers' Party has meant and still believes about landing at Vednes, because the Workers' Party has always worked for landing and local ring-effects, and we will vote for it today. Then I also hope that the government and government party representatives from Finnmark can be equally clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2398	We in SV are accused in the debate by some to cover our primary position on this matter. But then you have respectfully not followed the post I made, where I put great emphasis on the resistance SV has had to this project. So the representative Halleland, who is outside this hall, says that it's strange that a party that is opposed to the project is promoting proposals for landing. And yes, I fully agree. It is strange that a party who opposes the project must take the responsibility that the parties who have voted it through have not taken, but that they should have taken, for those who must take the greatest burdens, the greatest risk to fisheries and nature at the time of development, and have made clear demands for Equinor to land it, and that it should provide employment and ring-fence in Finnmark. Then we, who are opposed to the project initially, must take this responsibility and promote the proposals that need to be promoted. Then I hope that the bulk of the population through this case and other oil expansions that we have had in the Barents Sea, sees the game you are exposed to from the oil companies. I hope you see that you are repeatedly promised gold and green forests, but time and time again, both the gold and the green forests disappear in terms of employment and cyclical effects locally. I hope that the bulk of the population in the future will not be fooled by future beautiful promises from the oil industry, but that the bulk of the population along with SV will join in setting limits for the oil industry and say that enough is enough. That limit may be set next year by the Stortinge to deal with the announced notification from the Government of the Lofoten and Barents Sea Management Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2409	The big business is now taking a break in the debate, and voting is ringing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2421	The size is then ready to go to voting, and we are now voting on items on agenda no. 34, from Monday, December 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e2433	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Torgair Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the Stortinget with a stepping-up plan for safe food production in Norwegian resources.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the Stortinget with a thorough risk and vulnerability analysis of Norwegian security of supply that takes into account the recognition that the world food market may be affected by more unpredictable geopolitical developments and climate change’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to work to increase the degree of self-sufficiency, as corrected for imports of feed, in the case of Norwegian agricultural food to 50 pst. by the end of 2026.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e4491	Case No. 4 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e4503	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for security of competences to ensure that students learn about and reflect on different sexual orientations and gender identity and expression variations.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e4536	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to integrate the multi-disciplinary theme ‘Sustainable Development’ into the curricula of English and mathematics, in line with the curriculum group’s proposals.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that skills objectives that contribute to increased knowledge of the organised labour market are met in relevant curricula.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e6144	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e6163	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e6182	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public sample to look at the entire emergency situation for the increasing cruise traffic in Norwegian waters. The aim of the investigation shall be to identify the preparedness challenges in the light of increasing cruise tourism and to look at possible models in order to contribute financially to the development of standing preparedness in Norway. [[and whether the industry can contribute to the cost of accidents, accidents and accidents by means of funds, insurance or other means]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e6208	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public sample to review the emergency situation for increasing cruise traffic in Norwegian waters. The aim of the investigation shall be to identify any weaknesses in the current system and to propose measures to improve preparedness in the light of the increasing cruise tourism potential for Norwegian waters.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e6234	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7684	Case No. 10–12 were interpellations. Then we proceed to voting on the matter No. 1-36 on Agenda No 35, for Tuesday, December 17. For the sake of order, the President shall draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 37–42 on today’s maps will be voted on on Thursday 19 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7696	Case No. 1–28 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 15 to 42. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7720	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7758	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7777	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make stricter demands and to ensure, through proposals for appropriations, adequate climate and environmental competence in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to require municipalities to draw up land accounts which provide an overview of land changes, needs for monitoring, status for ecological status, need for restoration and trends for natural diversity in municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to require all municipalities to draw up a neighbourhood plan for natural diversity and to map and value their outdoor areas.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw the restrictions imposed by the Opposition Institute through the control signals referred to in the Riksrevisions Report Document 3:7 Examination of objections to planning matters.’ [[2018–2019]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7828	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for a change in the law that make the Ministry legally obliged in its written grounds for objections decisions to clarify the importance of local self-government in relation to natural values, soil protection and climate change emissions.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue to develop a methodology to assess the ‘total load’ under the Nature Diversity Act § 10.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7859	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a tax shift with increased taxes on property and reduced income tax.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7888	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and No 5-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national housing plan for long-term housing throughout the country, which includes a plan for the role of the House Bank in providing a fairer housing market.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for out-of-date models of municipal property tax based on the value of the property, with mandatory bottom deductions and/or any protective arrangements such as deferred tax for ownership transfer.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an opportunity to distinguish between primary and secondary housing taxes, which introduce a higher property tax on secondary housing than on primary housing.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking how social infrastructure can become part of development agreements and extend development agreements so that the planning authority can impose financing requirements and costs on the final dwellings.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a law on non-commercial housing organisations – Community housing – in accordance with the model of the Danish law on general housing.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7928	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the Planning and Building Act so that the Planning Authority can demand that there be a share of reasonable and social housing in all new projects to be built.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7952	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an investigation into how adaptation of legislation and possible housing support schemes can provide housing throughout the country. The investigation shall address the following: – Specific solutions for housing in districts and areas where construction costs may exceed the mortgage value of the dwelling. – Specific solutions for housing in press areas. – Possible means of providing housing for the long-term disadvantaged and for those with special needs. – Possible means of ensuring that first-time start-ups and loners have the opportunity to purchase a dwelling. – Assessment of non-commercial housing organisations, Community dwellings, according to the model of the Danish general housing law. Assessments of challenges and benefits of the model, measures to prevent regional challenges and the tools and legislative changes needed to establish the model. – The role of the Home Bank and the setting up of instruments.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e7997	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented four proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: 'The size agrees that the cords 'can be transmitted 'and 'can be used under the hood. 571 entry 60, cap is added. 573 Municipal reform, entry 60 Municipal merger.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: 'The size agrees that the cords 'can be transmitted 'and 'can be used under the hood. 571 entry 60’, cap is added. 575 Resource-intensive services, item 60 Top finance scheme.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: 'The size agrees that the cords 'can be transmitted 'and 'can be used under the hood. 571 entry 60’, cap is added. 581 housing and housing measures, item 70 Housing aid.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: 'The size agrees that the Keyword'can be used under the hood. 571 at 60', cap is added. 581 Dwelling and living environment measures, item 76 Leased dwellings.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e9335	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward nine proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking Greece to be quickly decommissioned and to receive asylum seekers from the overcrowded camps, including the priority given to single minor asylum seekers and sole asylum seekers in Norway, to the extent that it is possible to do within a budget of 241.7 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size consents to the ‘transferability’ and ‘ useable under the hood. Item 290, cap. Item No. 291 60 and heading No. 71, Chapter. 292 heading 60, chap. 440 item 1, cap. Item No. 444, cap. 490 item 1, item 21, item 22, item 73 and item 75’, cap is added. 490 Directorate of Foreign Affairs, Item 60 Grants to the host municipalities for the reception of asylum.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size consents to the ‘transferability’ of the cords and ‘useable under the hood’. Item 290, cap. Item 60, cap. 292 heading 60, chap. 440 item 1, cap. Item No. 444, cap. 490 entry 1, entry 22, entry 60, entry 73 and entry 75 ’ is added, chap. 490 Directorate of Foreign Affairs, Item 21 Special operating expenditure, reception of asylum.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size consents to the ‘transferability’ and ‘ useable under the hood. Item 290, cap. Item 60, cap. 292 heading 60, chap. 440 item 1, cap. Item No. 444, cap. 490 entry 1, entry 21, entry 60, entry 73 and entry 75 ’ is added, cap. 490 Directorate of Foreign Affairs Item 22 Special operating expenses, interpretation and translation.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: 'The size agrees that the Keyword 'can be transferred'is added to the cap. 490 Directorate of Foreign Affairs, heading 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to increase the rates of living in reception within the framework of the allocation as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size consents to ‘transferable’ and ‘useable under cover’ Keywords. Item 290, cap. Item 60, cap. 292 heading 60, chap. 440 item 1, cap. Item No. 444, cap. 490 entry 1, entry 21, entry 22, entry 60, entry 73 and entry 75 ‘ is added, cap. 490 Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs Item 72 International Migration Work, and assisted return and reintegration in the country of origin. ‘... Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘ The size consents to the tag ’ being used under the cover. Item 290, cap. Item 60, cap. 292 heading 60, chap. 440 item 1, cap. Item No. 444, cap. 490 entry 1, entry 21, entry 22, entry 60 and entry 73 ’ is added, cap. 490 Directorate of Foreign Affairs Item 75 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size consents to the Keyword ‘transferability’ being added cap. 491 Foreign payables, item 1 Operating expenditure.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e9901	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented four proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: 'The size agrees that the Keyword'can be used under the hood. Item 290, cap. 292 heading 60, chap. 440 item 1, cap. Item No. 444, cap. 490 entry 1, entry 21, entry 22, entry 60, entry 73 and entry 75' is added, chap. 291 Lodging of refugees and measures for immigrants, entry 60 Integration grants.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size agrees to ‘transferable’ and ‘ usable under the hood. Item 290, cap. Item 60, cap. 440 item 1, cap. Item No. 444, cap. 490 entry 1, entry 21, entry 22, entry 60, entry 73 and entry 75' is added, chap. 292 Norwegian and community learning for adult immigrants, entry 60 Norwegian and Norwegian community training grants.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2019 is amended as follows: Cape. 291 Lodging of refugees and measures for immigrants, Item 71 Contributions to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by 10 million. crowns in relation to the budget adopted.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: 'The size agrees that the Keyword 'can be transferred' is added to the cap. 291 Lodging of refugees and measures for immigrants, Item 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e10181	During the debate, Mr Aukrust put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has been distributed as proposal No. 2 and replaces proposal No. 1 on page 4 of the setting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that the allowances converted and inserted into its own closed account should not be used for domestic emission reductions in the non-quota sector.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e10924	Case No. 43 and 44 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e10993	Referral case No 106 is proposed to the Health and Welfare Committee. The representative of Mona Fagerås has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11000	To the record: SV will maintain our proposal to deal with this matter urgently, i.e. according to Section 39(c) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure. The background is that we have a precarious situation, which requires action, in terms of preparedness in a whole part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11005	Does anyone else ask for the word of the procedure? I don't think so. The representative of Fagerås has requested treatment under point (c) of the second paragraph of § 39 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure: «to be reviewed by the representatives for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration». The topic covered by the draft representative has been debated several times this session, and several proposals have been made on the matter. This proposal should be seen in the context of the other cases as well as the proposal of the Central Party in Case No. 105 on the same subject, which is also proposed for comitology. The President therefore states that referral No. 106 shall be sent to committee. Alternatively, the President's proposal on committee procedure and the proposal on Mona Fagerås on urgent procedure are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11026	The President's proposal on comitology has thus been adopted. Further references were made: 9th@item: inlistbox High-flying satellites — terrestrial purposes. [[107]] A strategy for Norwegian space activities (Report. [[2019-2020]] St. 10 Onest. : to be sent to the Business Committee, which shall submit its draft decision to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for an opinion prior to the suspension. 10th@item: inlistbox Representatives of the Governments of Cecilie Myrseth, Terje Aasland and Arild Grande on the package of measures to ensure the seriousness of the fishing industry (Document 8:27 S [[108]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Business Committee. 11th@item: inlistbox Changes in the Road Traffic Act [[109]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : Sent to the Transport and Communications Committee. 12th@item: inlistbox Law on the organisation of the development of high-speed electronic communications networks and the consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee 152/2018 6 July 2018 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive No 2014/61 (Prop. [[110]] [[broadband extension law]] [[EU]] [[2019-2020]] 35 LS Onest. : to be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee, with the exception of B, which shall be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee, which shall submit its draft suspension to the Foreign and Defence Committee for its opinion before its suspension. 13th@item: inlistbox Digital Transformation and Development Policy (Report. [[111]] St. 11 [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11074	Then Stortinget continues the examination of case No. 37 on today's map. The next speaker is Geir Adelsten Iversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11079	First of all, it was a shame that the Council of State had gone. But I feel even more sorry for him that from now on it is very bad to drink champagne. I really don't understand why he said that. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11084	There must be peace in the hall. Here you go, Adelsten Iversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11091	If you're going to be angry with someone, it's not an oil company you're going to be mad at. You have to be mad at yourself. It's the minister, along with the rest of the government, who decides. It's not the oil companies that decide us – that we're just sitting here doing what the oil companies require us to do. Many years ago, I was in exactly the same situation as what is now happening in North Cape. We had a very similar situation in Finnmark when Goliath was to be expanded. The exact same thing happened then. It was found that it was not profitable enough to take the oil on land. The rapporteur in Hasvik, who was otherwise me, fought hard to get it ashore. We did what we could – everything we could – but when it came to the problem, there was too little profitability in the project. The oil had to be taken with the bending load, and nothing came to the municipality that had fought so hard for it. The exact same thing happens now, after Nordkapp has done a crazy job to get this done and to think about it. They have worked hard to get it done. In the case of Goliath, it was a Everyone knows what problems there have been with the bending solution in the Barents Sea. North Cape high school would get some new lines. In the first municipality there were some emergency supplies, a small warehouse with one employee. I guess there were other things too, but it was peanuts in relation to what you could expect. It was a matter of getting 40 jobs to the small municipality. That would have meant enormously. The decline in the population, among other things, had become quite different. We saw that a supplier industry was going to establish itself. These were dreams – yes, of course, but they are dreams you live for. For this with readiness: several have talked about that there are people taking risks. Yes, we who have built houses around these bends, we take risk. No one else is taking risks. But we who live in the area, who have boats, and who drift there, take risks. Fishing is the most important industry. I have said – I also said it when you started with Johan Castberg – that you should focus on the fisheries, because the oil never came ashore. I got Jaggu right. But that's another possibility. If the government wants to, it can put its foot down and say, "No, it's going to land." We have to get it on land. We've had enough of promises about gold and green forests. We have to think about the sea and what's around there. In the case of standby etc., it has been mentioned several times that you should get enough equipment. I've been told that you should start with preparedness in Northernland. At present, there is not a readiness that is good enough to take away what may happen at a blastout. Fortunately, good people work in this industry. I have very strong faith in them, but I do not believe in the government and the council, which here says that he will not drink more champagne. It was a little dry. For my part, he can drink as much champagne as he wants, but you can't come to North Norway and say it when you have the opportunity to get the oil on land. That's what this is about. That's what people hope to get more activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11110	For my part, this debate has been influenced by the fact that SV has focused on the fact that the oil companies are running a game. It may be that they promise a lot and do not deliver what we wish on land. For a long time they have also not delivered everything we want in terms of cutting emissions, but I think SV is running a little high game here now. Because they're entangled in running a game even when they're promoting a proposal, just to use between 2.9 and 3.6 billion. kr, which does not exist. No one has shown up here today how to find that money. There's a big economic risk here, and that's what everybody's been dealing with, that it's a market that doesn't work. Somehow it works, but that's where we might have to go in and correct. I wish SV had talked more about climate risk. Because there's an infrastructure here that you're planning, that you're going to spend billions on, and that actually requires an enormously much larger volume to defend itself financially. This challenge is not highlighted – even though the representatives Haltbrecken and Kaski say that they should protect the North Barents Sea, perhaps, in the management plan next year. But that is the debate that is coming now: how much infrastructure? What is the economic risk? How much are we going to do from the political point of view to invest in a future that we really don't – at least SV and Left – want? One has spent little time on that debate. I don't think it defends itself entirely to draw up that game and that motif that one does here. Especially in the light of the fact that we had a slightly larger debate on climate one time ago, it seems a bit funny. We also see an Workers' Party that will have greater climate ambitions in the climate debate, but that will have more oil when we discuss oil. There are two hands that don't go all the way here. How the Workers' Party and the SV are going to work together is also a challenge, but we're not necessarily going to take that right now. It is particularly risky part of this that is really the big debate when we see what volumes are needed to defend the infrastructure development, and also what risks we take in the Barents Sea, and what preparedness we need to build up. The further north, the greater the preparedness. This is going to cost a lot of money, and at least I'm glad I'm a member of a party that accepts a market. With a halved oil price, it is no longer so much to pay for – and there is not so much political money to spend in this. I'm glad we're landing this case now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11125	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11130	The representative, Kjeseth, puts some very essential emphasis on this issue: climate risk and the economic risk that Norway is taking in the development of the Johan Castberg field. These were also questions that SV raised during the treatment of the extension matter itself when we had it for treatment here in Stortinget before the summer last year. We voted against the extension. The left voted in favour. We also presented proposals for a climate risk analysis of the development in the light of the Paris Agreement. The Left also voted against this, but I interpret the signals from the representative Kjeseth as perhaps the party has come up with better thoughts afterwards. So it's not like we're saying that maybe we should protect the Barents Sea north from oil business; we say we have to, for the sake of the climate and the vulnerable nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11143	When you sit on the Finnish mark bench, you have to take the floor on this case, because it has aroused strong feelings, and many have seen great industrial activity also in North Norway and Finnmark. Almost all of the Finnmark bench has been up here and said the same thing. The only person I miss here from Finnmark's bench is the Right Representative. There has been a unanimous demand for landing in Finnmark. This room supported it in its decision when it was examined. I just want to ask the minister and the government to do everything they can to get the common wish in place. I think it's an important matter for the part of the country, for Finnmark and for Nordkapp.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11156	I don't want to spend a lot of time extending a debate that has been good and thorough, but I still want to say at the very end that I believe what we have heard from many parties – not only the three parties that have announced that they support the proposal from SV, but also several of the government parties – is a very clear signal that I am sure the government and the oil and energy minister will take along, but which I hope the industry and Equinor will also take along. What we call "license two operations", that is, the tolerance in society for a contentious industry, that is, the oil industry, is not going to be free, and you can no longer assume that this is going on your own, and that it's going to be what you want in the industry. You have to maintain this. It has been said by about everyone who has been on the pulpit, from the opposition and the position, that it was created very high expectations. Those expectations are not broken. I hope the industry will take this very clear signal, which has been expressed by a lot of people on the platform today. I want to stress, as one who does not come from Finnmark myself, that I have a particularly strong understanding that all the representatives who come from Finnmark, and also those who sit and come from home, think this in a long historical light. It's actually true that in Finnmark, people from the far south of the country have been used to coming and providing resources, but to a small extent have left businesses and values up there. I think we're all going to take that over. This is particularly sensitive, and it is particularly sensitive during a period when these issues become more controversial in Norway. It is clearly expressed. Some of us are going to vote in favour of this proposal – many others have expressed an understanding of it. I hope that will be taken further along the way when we go into other major debates on the future of the oil industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11168	It's a little unusual that you take the word on a matter that is initially not under your constitution, but I stand here today as a witness to the time, all the time I was on the ‘filling’ tour to Veidnes when Statoil was going to tell you about the amazing oil terminal. I tasted the champagne. It is not that I have had a taste of champagne, but I fully agree with the latter speaker: this is a serious matter for Equinor. We have to think about reputation. There are now more in the industry that should do. At the same time, I have to take the floor, because it can't be left behind the impression that the oil industry hasn't mattered to Finnmark in the last 15 years when we've had it there. When they started with Melkøya, the local value creation was estimated to be about 500 million. kr. When you were done, you had got seven times that -- most actually from the contractors in Alta, who were foresight and saw their average to get to local value creation. We have a knowledge environment that is far, far beyond what we had before. The initiative announced at Nordkapp maritime college is very important – not only for oil protection but also for developing the coastal fleet further up there to deal with other things than just fishing. We build environments of competence. It's important. Hammerfest is a city that is not to be recognized after you got the bet a few years ago, and not just because there are two fine buildings and an extra hotel. No, go in and look at the characteristics of the Hammerfest secondary school, look at the implementation rate of the Hammerfest youth secondary school – simply because there are exciting jobs in the local environment. It has many positive aspects, this industry, and then we're going to be strict when the companies themselves don't realize how important the reputation of the industry is now, at a time when we're going to change the way we use energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11175	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11192	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11209	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions by members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11216	We should certainly not be so much worse in our committee than they were in the past, although I do not believe that the debate will be so long here. In the document presented by the Minister of Defence, some large sums have been added, but there is very little information in the text on what the funds will be allocated. It is said that it should go to ammunition and clothing, but it is thinly covered to be such a large sum. I'd like to ask the Minister of Defense to do some good for what's in the relative, perhaps unexpected, large increase in the new age, so that the Storting might be a little more familiar with it before going to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11223	It's a wish I'm happy to be allowed to fulfill. I Prop. 13 S, the Ministry of Defence, is presenting a draft budget of 60.3 billion. kr. In recent years, the budget has increased by 102.8 million. Compared to the budget adopted. The increase is based solely on increased revenue that has an impact on the expenditure side. The increased revenue has been proposed to cover priority needs in the defence sector, including: increased costs resulting from increased exchange and fuel prices. An agreement has been reached between the Norwegian and US authorities to sell five C-130 Hercules transport aircraft for approximately 40 million. kr. The aircraft have been sold to the Canadian company Coulson Aviation, which is to use the aircraft for firefighting in the United States and Australia. So instead of paying to destroy the planes, the Ministry of Defence has provided revenues by selling them – even for a good cause. It's further re-disposaled 146 million. Internally on the defence budget to increase security of supply for ammunition in the Defence. The defence has negotiated a strategic long-term agreement to acquire ammunition from a Norwegian supplier at a reduced price. Following the lifting of the KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’ in February 2019, additional expenditure of a total of 43.5 million has been incurred. kr, e.g. for emergency repairs, docking of vessels and berthing at berth. It's also set at 19.2 million. kr related to the establishment of a temporary camp on Skold in Troms. The camp is intended to be used by Dutch training and practice teams in Norway. In addition to the changes in the appropriations for the posts, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Defence proposes the order authorisation at Cape. 1720 Common capabilities in Defence Item 01 Operating expenditure is increased by 2.5 billion. kr. The background to the increase is three-fold and is linked to the following: The defence has concluded a new long-term contract with Nammo AS for the delivery of ammunition. Therefore, in order to have the necessary ammunition for standby, an increase of the order authorisation of 2,185 billion is proposed. kr. Furthermore, the defence needs to make larger acquisitions to ensure that personal clothing and equipment are available by indentation. For this reason, it is proposed to increase the order authorisation of Cape. 1720 with 300 million. kr. Finally, the Defence College has concluded contracts with external schools for the supply of education. An additional order authorisation of 38 million is therefore proposed. kr. In total, this is going to be an increase of 2.523 billion. kr, where the Defence may conclude binding agreements for the coming years that facilitate efficient operation and preparedness. So it's to have a long-term interest in part of the investment that we're using this power of attorney.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11242	As the representative took the wrong posts and then had to be a bit approximate, as all the details were not as clear in the head as on the paper, I had to ask for the word again. When I talked about a large and powerful increase, it was of course in the ordering authority and not in the other posts, which is more within what a reasonable budget can expect. There is one post until I would like to ask the Minister of Defense to give me an answer. The re-disposal amount is 19.2 million. kr for setting up a camp on Skold in Troms. We know that, among other things. There will be Dutch forces training and training in Norway, and it would be interesting to know, in addition to redispatching, the total cost of accepting our allies on Shield.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11249	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11266	Now we have had a whole range of government-treated conversion proposals that have been treated in a very different way – from the Municipal and Administrative Committee, where the majority were not willing to be with and discuss changes, to the Energy and Environment Committee, where many were interested in being with and making major changes, and now we are on the Foreign and Defence Committee. SV has also put a proposal on the table today, which is about what is going on in the refugee camps in Greece. For several years, Norway has allocated money to this work through the EEA funds, and for several years Norway has recovered several hundred million kroner that have been allocated to this work but have not been used. There are slightly different reasons for this, but one main reason is that Greece is subject to restrictions, both from the EU and other lending institutions, which prevent them from employing more people in the public sector and restrict the possibility of using this money. At the same time, Aegean Boat Report recently reported that 56 000 people have arrived from Turkey to the Greek islands only in the autumn. That's an increase of 84 pst. compared to 2018. Only in the Moria camp on Lésvos, which is dimensioned to 3,000, are now 18 000 people living together under completely unworthy conditions. Last week, VG wrote that these camps in Greece are a pure "hell". It's a little food, bad clothes and no shoes. It's cold, it's garbage, it's sewage. A lot of people don't have tents. They live with plastic over them. There are many lone minor asylum seekers – yes, some as far as the age of 4–5 years – who are left alone and left to other lonely minors to take care of them. Those who are there say that every day there are new lifesaving refugees there. Then SV believes that the money that is returned from the EEA funds is to be taken and transferred to humanitarian aid in the refugee camps. In the refugee camps, neither the Red Cross nor the Refugee Aid are now present. UNHCR is there and some non-governmental organisations, both Greek organisations and the Norwegian Dropped in the Sea, but there are almost no others present in the other camps. It's simply because the situation is so terrible there that they think they can't do their job. That's why there's a screaming need for this money, so that people can at least have clothes on their bodies, food and a tent, so that there can be staff there that can help them with the most elementary health problems, and so that the kids can go to school. There are almost none of the children who have been in the camp this month after month, who have been admitted to school. Right now, it is the Geneva meeting where the UN Global Refugee Forum discusses how to relieve the burden on countries that accept many refugees. Norway is there. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says that the institution of asylum is under attack. I share that view. It's under attack here, and it's under attack in many places. It will be worse if Norway does not contribute more to those countries that take a disproportionate share. Norway, one of the countries which, in addition to contributing to the closure of borders, refuses to accept asylum seekers from there and uses the Dublin Agreement to return those who have come to Norway with a Greek stamp in the passport. I hope now that Stortinget can look at these proposals that SV has promoted. So this is money that's left over. They have been allocated as EEA funds and they can go to aid for the refugee work in Greece. But we've also made a small opening in the proposal so that they can be used for other acute situations. What we know is that some refugees have taken over from Greece – because the situation there is terrible – to Bosnia. In Bosnia, there are probably even smaller auxiliaries. We want to give the government the opportunity to use these surplus funds now before Christmas, but also so that they can use them for next year – these budget lines can be transferred – to facilitate the situation, both for a country in Europe under strong pressure, and to facilitate the humanitarian disaster that is taking place on European soil now. Unfortunately, both the government and the majority of the population have so far turned the blind eye to. Now the population is going to have a chance of doing this. The vote will not take place today. It's supposed to happen on Thursday. That is why I ask the party groups to think about and be with now and to reach out a hand to some of those who have lost everything – who are left without anything – and to a country in Europe that is in a situation I think is almost none of us can imagine, with financial problems and enormous responsibility for a huge amount of asylum seekers and a large amount of refugees. Then I take up the proposals from SV, which are two loose proposals that have been distributed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11289	The representative Karin Andersen then drew up the proposals she referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11308	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11326	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11333	Let me first just thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter. There have been relatively short deadlines. I expect that most people will appreciate a short debate, so I'll try to do my utmost not to extend it, but just comment on a couple of relationships. The recommendation is also promoted by an overall committee. The main changes are linked to the reward scheme for better public transport in urban areas, in particular grants for large collective projects. These costs are reduced as a consequence of delays in progress in renegotiation and the conclusion of new urban growth agreements, but there is, of course, sufficient resources to follow up commitments for 2019. These items have also been well followed up in the State budget for 2020. It is also positive that the Ministry of Transport is now making arrangements for the purchase of 30 new local trains, type 77, to replace today's type 69. This will result in a significant increase in capacity, as the new train sets will have a capacity of up to 850 passengers compared to the current 570 passengers. An additional 170 local train option is also provided and the majority considers that this option provides the necessary flexibility in the coming years to further increase capacity if it is appropriate. The opposition also promotes a proposal relating to the maintenance of road surfaces, which is strictly unrelated to Prop. 23 S for 2019-2020 and the State budget for 2019, but concerns the State budget for 2020. There is reason to note that the maintenance item has increased significantly during this government, resulting in an increase in the proportion of road with satisfactory road surface and a significant decrease in the maintenance run. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of continuing this effort in the future budgets and of providing the industry with as good predictability as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11348	I would then like to take the opportunity to promote the two minority proposals resulting from the vote. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish the members of the Committee and the Minister for Transport a very good Christmas. Then I can bring the Minister of Justice and the President in the same round. That was my contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11357	The representative Sverre Myrli has put forward the good suggestions he made in his article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11362	I wish I could have joined the representative Myrli's words about a good Christmas and then not said anything more, but the situation is such that I have to put the search light on one more matter. This concerns the down-priority of the coast. We will see an example today when Post 60 Allowances to port facilities are reduced by 4.4 million. kr. That amount doesn't seem much, but it's actually a cut of 10 pst. It is regrettable that this money was not spent, when we know that the delays in, for example, fishing ports are large. It becomes particularly clear when several county municipalities will not enter into an agreement with the State for the acquisition of the fishing ports due to a lack of funding. Coastal management's share of the transport budget is very low, only 3.82 pst. The lag is approx. 30 pst. by measures within the first period of NTP. Many actors along the coast are disappointed that the coastal chapter is not being given higher priority. It's easy to understand, because the goal achievement is poor, especially when it comes to the road. Ports and fairways are very important and need to be exploited in a nutritious way and to move goods from road to sea. This is such an important matter that I thought I had to mention it today, all the time in the year. I would have liked the Council of State to take hold of this and explain how he can accept such a voteable treatment of what the NHO calls the Gold Coast. How can it be that although coastal management only has 3.8 pst. by NTP, is the small bet not met? If the Council of State responds to this during his article, he may let go of the lines today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11379	Of course, I was going to refer from the whole train trip from Stavanger to Oslo on Sunday, because it was Go-Ahead who drove on that route – for the first time. To say it like this: it went well! Unfortunately, 104 other flights did not take place, which was the responsibility of Vy. I'm very sorry about that. You have now got a new route that looks very good, because there are many more train departures, and then we hope the trains go when they're going, when Vy gets fit on his logistics. So for two things that I would like to mention, and that I think is very happy with this supplementary proposition. These, of course, are the reward schemes. We see progress in most of the cities that already have urban environmental agreements, which are now becoming urban growth agreements. I am very excited about what the contact committee in Trondheim, in Trøndelag, is doing today in terms of the environmental package. Today they are most likely – I hope so – to say yes to the new supplement: an increase of 66 pst. and a better offer to meet the need for public transport in Trondheim and its surroundings. It is also very gratifying that we have now ordered 30 new train sets. There is also an option on 170 trainsets. With the ambitions left for the railway, I have a good hope that all these orders will be put into practice as the line capacity is good enough and the number of passengers is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11388	I will also try to help make the debate brief. It would have been tempting to say that the last post by the representative Myrli was the best post I've heard from him during the year we've had debates here. I shall of course leave it to be said, as it is soon Christmas. I am also pleased that the Committee broadly agrees with the assessments that have been made on our part. To the representative Mossleth, who is wondering what it is that we have a technical budget change in the coastal area: that is because that is precisely what we have – a technical budget change that makes us adapt to the demand for realistic budgeting. Then I just want to remind the Central Party that in 2019 we opened up so that the municipalities could advance 0.5 billion. kr to the fishing ports, in order to accelerate the development of those ports than that envisaged in the NTP. In this context, the technical budget change is relatively de minimis in order to ensure realistic budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11397	At that time, there were no more lines at the Council of State this year. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 42.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11418	In order for a society to function well and to be democratic, there are certain absolute fundamental rights that must be underpinned. Although in Norway we have a state that wants the best for its citizens, history has shown us both here at home and not least in the world that we are dependent on fundamental rights that guarantee individuals up against the state and the rest of society. The most important thing in a society is each individual. Everything else is building up to ensure that individuals can live the life they want and protect their right to do so. The State is a structure that is the tool of individuals, not the other way around. That's why we have a democracy to ensure that the state works for the citizens' wishes, not the other way around. Democracy is far more than being able to vote in elections every four years. In a democracy, we depend on people being able to express themselves freely. If people cannot express themselves freely, there is no democracy either. Defending the right to freedom of expression is easy when there are opinions shared by the majority that are expressed. But freedom of expression is not primarily for those who say it all agrees. Those who need protection to be able to express themselves freely are those who have opinions that many of us dislike: a minority. That's when our ability to stand up for this fundamental democratic value is put to the test. A statement can be carried out in many ways. It is easy to think that freedom of expression applies to what you write in a newspaper or say in a speech, but opinions can be expressed in many ways – everything from song, poetry, drawings, movies, revisions, theaters and musicals to clothes, symbols, actions, etc. We have several examples of attacks on freedom of expression in Norway, not least the much-mentioned caricature dispute in 2005, when the country’s then foreign minister did not stand up for freedom of expression, but on the contrary did the opposite. We then saw – and partly now also – a significant self-sensorship in Norwegian media, as the fear of represals was so great that opinions that should normally have emerged were not promoted. We still see a lot of the same problem. In recent times, more people have wanted to limit freedom of expression to organisations that many of us do not like very much, such as SIAN and others. We see that several municipalities have discussions about refusing them the right to demonstrate and express their message. It's profoundly problematic. These organizations have a message I don't like very much, a message where they ignore man as an individual and judge people from a group mindset. However, I will always take the fight that these groups will of course be allowed to demonstrate and express their message. It's the acidiest of democracy when there are organizations we dislike, whether it's Islamists, racists or others who have provocative and frightening statements, who want to take advantage of our fundamental right to express themselves. It is also important to remember that many of the opinions that some people today may think are bad, can be opinions that are completely accepted in a few years' time. That's also what the story shows. Among other things, in the Norwegian immigration debate, there were views and political speeches that were held 20 years ago, which were then strongly criticised and where the opinions were attempted to be reduced and limited, which are now entirely acceptable – since they were seen to be correct. We have to stand up for people's right to speak, because we have to fight back against statements we don't like, in words – and then with better arguments – not through prohibitions and laws. We must be principled in our defence of fundamental rights, and if we accept that individual groups should have their freedom of expression reduced, we will open a dangerous door. Should the ruling majority ever be able to crush a minority? Which group is next to lose the right to speak? As I said, it's easy to stand by the freedom of speech when there's quiet times, but the important thing is to do it even when it's storming. So my question is, does the Council of State agree that freedom of expression must be defended, even for those who think we dislike?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11437	Initially, I want to make it clear that I fully agree with the representative of Wiborg that freedom of expression is a fundamental right and a value in a democratic society. Freedom of expression must be defended, even when we disagree with statements made. This implies that one must also protect the right to promote opinions from which most people take a great deal of distance. Voltaire, a French philosopher, said it so nicely once, that he could dislike strongly what someone says, but that he was willing to die for the right to say it. I've been aware that as a society we have to endure statements that can both provoke and can also be perceived with constancy. The protection of the opinion is strong. Therefore, burning a Qur'an is initially an opinion protected by the Constitutional Paragraph on Freedom of Speech. But even though freedom of expression is fundamental and is strong, it is not absolute, for the Stortinget has in the penal law § 185 that one can be punished for hateful statements. However, the threshold for punishing someone for such an opinion under Section 185 of the Criminal Code is high, and in case law it is assumed that § 185 only affects statements of a qualified infringing nature. But what opinions are initially protected by freedom of expression, and what can be affected by Section 185 of the Criminal Code, has to be decided by prosecution authorities and ultimately by courts, ultimately. And it's important to stress that it's not the government that always has to define that limit; it's the independent prosecution authority and the independent court to do. The task of the police in political markings and demonstrations is to ensure calmness, order and security and to help all those who wish to be heard have the opportunity to do so. This applies regardless of the actors demonstrating or participating in a counter-demonstration. The police, based on police law, can intervene to maintain calm and order independently of what is expressed during the demonstration, regardless of whether it is also affected by criminal law. In that case, there will be a case for investigation later. However, freedom of expression requires police to be more restrained in intervention in political markers and demonstrations than in other types of events and illegalities. The police's duty to intervene in the light of disorder of order and criminal acts must be constantly weighed against the right to express itself freely in this context. It happens that we read in the media that some want to refuse planned demonstrations for organisations with little support in society. I'll warn you against that. I would also like to emphasise that there is no requirement for permission from the police to hold a demonstration. However, a notification must be made to the police to ensure that the demonstration can be properly conducted. The police can then impose conditions, but only in order to ensure peace, order and security. Other considerations shall not be taken into account by the police. The fact that a public landowner, or the municipality, does not want markings, is, as a clear general rule, not a relationship the police can take into account, and not a basis for the police to refuse a marking. The police can only refuse a demonstration if it is not possible to properly mark it. The former operation order of the Police Directorate cast doubt on the threshold for intervention in an ongoing demonstration, and the Police Directorate has therefore adjusted the operating order to create the necessary clarity. The new order focuses on the police law and the facilities available to the police to conduct the demonstrations in such a way as to safeguard freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration and the need to conduct demonstrations safely. I am sure that the new operating order will take good care of these considerations, so that there are no questions about the right to demonstrate and express itself freely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11456	I thank the Council of State for being so clear. I think it's important that we are, because we see that it has been sin in several areas. We have many examples of this when it comes to the public's handling of freedom of expression. I mentioned the caricature dispute in 2005, when the then government really failed. But it is also important, as the Council of State was clear, that there must of course be some limits to freedom of expression, for example. encouraging crime, threatening people, etc. Of course, the legal boundaries are not to be determined by the government at all times, but by the police and prosecution authorities. The challenge arises if the police also become a very large political actor, which I think could be seen in connection with the much-mentioned demonstration and the order police had. I am glad that changes were made to it. An argument that is often used to try to limit someone's right to speak or demonstrate is the danger of creating unnecessary unrest, disorder and violence. The danger with that is that there may be counter-monstrants who come with so many threats that there will be a lot of noise, unrest and potential violence, that those who want to express themselves quite legitimately will be limited because of the threat. It is important that we work hard and are clear that we are not acceptable, along with the self-sensus we see to a large extent. When you look beyond this hall now, there's not one representative from the opposition parties here. In a case of fundamental democratic rights, the representatives of the Workers' Party choose not to sit in the Chamber – not even representatives of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party, the Red Party or the Green Party. It is only the representatives of the Progress Party and the Left who are now in the Chamber. I think that is incredibly sad, and I expect more people to come back here and participate in this debate on a fundamental and important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11467	The president is from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11472	It is an important matter and an important principle that the representative, Mr Wiborg, addresses. Such things are challenging for us as societies because most of us may not like the message. It is equally important that that message be allowed to come forward. We've seen how things go in societies where governments start setting limits on what to say and not say in a demonstration. It may seem reasonable to limit the freedom of expression to being able to say only what is most popular, but it is a dangerous road that leads quickly to dictatorship. That's why it's so important that our freedom of expression is enshrined in the Constitution, and that regardless of whether we strongly disagree with what is being said, we should defend the right to say that. The problem is, for example: shall have a police system in which to limit an opinion in advance, as it may be a call for e.g.: illegality. It will quickly slide over to become a foresight, which is contrary to the Constitution. The second issue is of a more practical nature — how the demonstration itself is to be carried out. It's a paradox, of course, that if there's enough counter-demonstrators and enough sound against it, it's hard to express itself, but the police's task is not to provide a microphone stand for those who are going to hold a demonstration or a counter-demonstration. The police's task is to maintain calm, order and security — not to ensure that the opinions are heard by others, but to ensure that the opinions can be said, and that they can be said in such a way that one is not attacked by others. And any person in such a demonstration – whether it's a counter-demonstrator or a demonstrator – who doesn't follow, for example. the police request will receive a response from the police if the conditions so permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11483	I would like to thank my good colleague, Mr. Erlend Wiborg, for addressing this interpellation, and I think maybe this is one of the most important interpellations I've seen while I've been here at Stortinget, because of the principal theme being addressed. To be completely honest, I'm really really sorry that we need this interpellation, but that might be a little bit of the way it is, the time we live in. Let me start by saying that I don't have the sense of burning books, whether it's the Koran, other religious books or books in general. That gives me associations I don't like. But this debate is just about saying that it has nothing to say what you like or don't like. It is about defending the right of people to say what they want, under the freedom of expression, which also involves some actions – fundamental freedom of expression. And even though the following, Voltaire's wise words, have been quoted here many times before, I feel that it deserves to be repeated: I don't necessarily have to agree with what you say, but I want to defend your right to say so with life as an effort. Freedom of expression is also under pressure here in Norway, from peoples and groups with extreme religious opinions, from people with a political agenda. Most of us censor ourselves today. I'm a little ashamed to admit it, but I also think a lot about what I should not say, because the price of saying things – for example. critical things about Islam – are quite high. It is known that people with extreme religious ideas and others with religious political agendas use such quotes to threaten and crush the debate. The price you pay by limiting your own freedom when you face such threats often feels a little too high, including for us politicians, who are used to being in the public eye. It's a shame, but it's the truth. A lot of people paid that price. A few weeks ago, I had a visit in this room by three of the bravest people I've ever met. It was Zineb El Rhazoui from France, the only survivor of the Charlie Hebdo editorial. I also had visits of Flemming Rose, former editor of the Jutland Post, and imam Tawhidi from Australia. All three are people who have said critical things about both Islam and those who face extreme opinions, and they pay the price by having guards around 24/7. Also our own Vebjørn Selbeck, as the representative Wiborg took up, paid this price, because he printed a facsimile of the Muhammad caricatures, and the then Foreign Minister chose to mention his actions as an example of the fact that there were extremists on both sides. Freedom of expression is about much, including freedom of religion. Twenty-five p.m. Of the world’s countries, about 50 countries, there are restrictions on the conduct of religion. We see that girls get kidnapped, converted and coercive because they belong to minorities. And last but not least, this freedom of expression is also about freedom of religion. That is why we must put down our feet for restrictions on freedom of expression and ensure that we have an open, democratic debate where people dare to say what they mean, and do not let the fear of threats from people with extreme opinions limit what they say. When people are threatened from doing something, it is the same political and hateful agenda behind it, which makes minorities in a number of countries of the world live as second-class citizens because they are guilty of one thing: that they believe in something other than the majority. Standing up for the freedom of expression is one of the most important things we can do as politicians, and I therefore join in what Mr Wiborg said. I should have liked to have seen that even more representatives had been present here in the Chamber today in this debate and said what they thought about this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11500	Like several here, I have no problem thanking the interpellant for bringing up one of the most important elements of our democracy, namely freedom of expression. I agree with what has been said that there should have been more in this Chamber to debate this important topic. In some of the police actions we've seen lately, it's been representatives whose party is here in the hall of the day, who have gone a long way in calling the police fascist. I think that's very supportive. This debate brings me to the debate, as there are people who do not like opinions, the debate on the Young Left and the Legalize it campaign just before the elections in the autumn. There was a campaign where the police intervened in some situations, and where the school administration refused a recognised political party, a youth movement, to publish material in which they expressed a special political intervention to bring down the drug use in the country and get the drug use under control. It's said that freedom of expression is absolute, which you've been in here several times. It's obviously not. It is not just a matter of banning hateful statements. It is a ban on the use of violence, it is a ban on abuses of dignity – on privacy, in particular, although it is no longer included in the criminal law – but also on the provisions on copyright and the right to own image. So it's about being wise and stupid in this society -- we can't get away with that. I consider the actions of SIAN in the situation referred to here, which is not particularly wise. It is suitable to cheer up an atmosphere, as I think it is reprehensible that someone should speak for. I thought it was bad to discover how adults can express themselves this way. So it's about practice when it comes to opinions, and it's a much more interesting field. Is it e.g. to express their personal opinion on a question of political treatment, e.g. in the field of drug trafficking. The police director, who warned in a chronicle about the consequences of a reform, that is, the Russian reform, which was adopted in the United Kingdom, but where legal details are presented to the public in two days' time? I find this very special. I cannot see that this has occurred as long as I have followed Norwegian policy. So this isn't about right of speech, it's about wise and unwise actions. And I think we have to assume that there is some kind of precedent that is created here, maybe, but that I find difficult to accept as good administration. So we have the question of rights. We have the question of ethical attitudes, which are not captured by the kiss, but are captured by the ethics. And then it's about opinions within good and bad governance. For example, in this House we know that there are no comitology issues regarding the positions of other parties and the views expressed in committee. It's a kind of speech restriction that I have a great sense of. However, with all the understanding that the Council of State is not prepared for this issue, I dare to ignore his views as to whether the opinion of the police director – to me a problematic way – is consistent with good administration, as he sees it, and therefore within the police director's opinion, I do not say right of expression. What does the Council of State think about such a practice at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11515	I would also like to thank the interpellant for taking up a very important interpellant. I want to take a slightly different angle in the discussion itself – I want to take the debate related to Norwegian media. Freedom of expression is one of our most central values of freedom. Freedom of expression forms the basis for democratic societies. Without freedom of expression, democracy is an illusion. I will not use this post to discuss the specific event related to the burning of the Koran – it has already been recorded. I want to look at freedom of expression in a broader perspective. The State contributes significantly to the ability of media to promote news and opinions. All forms of state media support amount to approximately 9.6 billion in 2019. kr. The NRK alone gets $6.4 billion. kr. The background to support is the desire for a democratic media diversity. Unfortunately, there is only a modest amount of media pluralism that was the intention behind the various support schemes. Unfortunately, what we experience is not a media diversity, but that the same meaning is repeated multiple times, until it becomes a truth that is very demanding and often stigmatizing to contradict. In particular, there are two areas where Norwegian State aid media have similar views. Climate-related issues and immigration and integration. But there is also a general consensus among the media: the more, the better. Alternative views in these areas do not meet with counter-arguments or empirical arguments. Opinions are immediately disqualified and immediately encountered with stigmatisation and, in part, ridiculed by the messenger. All supported media give a message that human activity and carbon emissions at today’s level will lead to a global temperature increase of two degrees. The accusations are that the police will therefore melt and that, as a consequence, the sea level will rise dramatically. It's 2030 that applies, but the year has been adjusted a couple of times already. Other societal impacts of the climate policies of the countries are not affected. Last night there was an element of the morning news at the NRK P2 that Christmas presangs create an unnecessary climate impression. Researcher Anita Broch at SIFO claimed that everyone has what they need, and that therefore we should make the gift-giving more climate-friendly, in other words give fewer gifts and preferably give experiences. Programme manager Ida Creed responded: Yes, why not? Yeah, why not? Nobody took up what the consequences of such a policy would be: a drastic reduction in production worldwide would lead to the closure of businesses and mass unemployment in the poor part of the world, presumptuously. But this issue was not even mentioned or addressed. It's not journalism, it's propaganda. However, more and more climate experts in a number of countries are asking whether temperature changes are due to human activity. These are not single-minded, with innate oppositional views on social development; these are often blatant and intelligent people who draw a different conclusion. And let it be clear: these are people with far more knowledge and competence in the climate field than the vast majority of politicians and journalists. In such a perspective, media support kills the media diversity. With regard to immigration and integration, more and more people are beginning to realise that the arguments of the Progress Party and the proposed measures back in the 1980s should have been implemented. However, the media have collectively condemned all proposals to reduce the non-Western immigration promoted by the Progress Party and proposals to make clear demands in relation to established human rights violations in Islam, and proposals for integration measures that have made clear adaptation requirements. However, the media have become increasingly offensive and creative in their defence of immigration, again because admittance in this field will help to make the media’s previous argument a shame. It is therefore important for the media to make compromises that place the party in the same booth as the other parties. The result will be the creation of alternative news media that dares to engage in the demanding debates and which do not aim to reach agreement with other news outlets. They do not want to be part of the established community, but will challenge Norway. That is why I want, from this pulpit, to give homage to those who are actually dry, and who face massive criticism in this Chamber and everywhere else, of course – and that is: Resett, Document.no and HRS, who challenge politicians and the old media, and who dare to use the freedom of expression as it was intended to be used. At the same time, I would like to challenge the Council of State with a question: will the Council of State work to ensure that the three media mentioned also have equal access to media support as the rest of Media Norway, so that we get a real debate on a fair basis in Norwegian media?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11549	I would like to thank you for the debate. The Progress Party is holding a group meeting right now, and we could almost have the same debate there, as there were only representatives from the Progress Party and – honestly – the Left who chose to take part in the debate. I think it's worth doing that, as I said in my post instead, when I strongly encouraged representatives from other parties to participate in a debate on fundamental values. Unfortunately, they did not choose to do so. I record that especially the Workers' Party, which, as we know, has a broken past in terms of freedom of expression, chooses not to be present in the Chamber. It's sad. The representative Grimstad took up an example that I was going to take now, and it was the famous campaign to the Young Left. One may have shared opinions on drugs, on legalisation and not, it is quite legitimate to have positions, but it must be decided by dissenting opinions, not by forbidding to express oneself, and at least not what is almost the most daunting, that one has a preliminary analysis of opinions. It's a basic principle. It's been done in the past when it comes to censorship of films, that it was censorship. Now you consider the legality of the films after an opinion has taken place, and I think that is important that we are clear. It must also be allowed to criticise the opinions of others. The fact that someone criticises a statement someone has made is not necessarily an attempt to frustrate the freedom of expression, on the contrary. It's using the fundamental right you have to break your mind, to get your point of view out. I think it's useful for everyone to get the most views out, and also the points that some people might think are a little bit special or very marginal. The struggle for democracy and freedom has not been won forever. That fight must be fought every day. When we live in such a beautiful country as Norway, it may seem a bit pompous to say it from the Great Council, but I think it's important. Because we see how freedom of expression has been under pressure and under pressure. Some have paid an incredibly high price because they have chosen to avail themselves of the freedom of expression, and it is people who really deserve our support. That is why I had hoped that today's Storting could become even wider in this debate, that freedom of expression should take place, and that it is also the task of the State to facilitate freedom of expression and to protect those who express themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11561	Comparisons were made between the koran burning and the government's reaction at that time on the cartoons. I would like to stress that, as a government, we must of course be allowed to take a political distance from a message we do not like, but there is a difference between taking a distance from a message we do not like, and complaining that the action could happen in our country, as I understand it during the caricature struggle. Because then one also regrets freedom of speech. We cannot complain that an organisation tried to burn a Koran in Norway, but we must be allowed to say that we do not agree with the action itself. That's a pretty big difference. The representative Grimstad took up the Young Left Campaign 'Legalize it'. It was probably not the police who intervened there, but the drug association of the police. The police director went out very clearly and said that they have to learn to distinguish a little better between the police role and the role of members of a volunteer organisation. I think we managed this situation quite well, and it was emphatically stated both by the Council of Sanner and by me that we can't operate there, either at school or in society. The representative Grimstad also addressed this with the freedom of expression of officials and referred to the police director’s play in connection with the drug reform. I must point out that a police director must be allowed to make his professional recommendations in an ongoing political debate. I think that's important. For the police have enormous knowledge, and it is important to get that knowledge even in the social debate. If not, we have begun to restrict freedom of expression, so that we miss important information that can also be used as a decision-making basis for this room when the matter finally comes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11570	The debate on substance is closed. 43 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11588	In the last few weeks, we have had a media debate about violence in the healthcare system, and then violence by patients against health professionals. Of course, it's very serious when this happens, and it's something that needs to be taken very seriously. The editorial staff of the evening post shall have the honour to address this issue. It is, of course, a managerial responsibility to ensure that employees can work without being subjected to violence or threats. However, it is a little too easy to say ‘in the care of the elderly’, because in many cases it is a matter of dementing that becomes violent in frustration over the state in which they are located. Too many people with dementia lack diagnosis. Diagnosis is important both for the exclusion of other diseases and for the optimal organisation of care and care from the municipality. In addition, it is important to have a diagnosis in order to plan for the future and to obtain the services that will be needed. As we still see in the media, most recently in the newspaper for today, healthy lifestyles can contribute to good health and reduce or expose the risk of dementia and a number of diseases. Healthy lifestyles can help prevent dementia, but all the knowledge we have about the prevention of dementia is at population level. That means that there will be great variation from person to person. Risk to dementia is a combination of genes, lifestyles and the environment. It is possible to live healthy in all ways and yet get a dementia. Today there is no cure for dementia, but there is much that can be done to live the best possible with the disease. Knowledge of dementia makes it easier to deal with the challenges of dementia for family and close friends. As a family, it is important to have contact with others who can provide help and support. Psychologist Hege Moberg is related to a father with dementia and describes this well in an Opinion published at the NRK. The father has Alzheimer's. In dents disappear after each ability to form meaning. The world appears unpredictable, incomprehensible and insecure. The need for safety and care is increasing, while the ability to express this is being impaired. She describes the father as a stepfather and a kind man. So why did he become an aggressive man at the hospital, she asks. Furthermore, she describes the offer the father gets, as bad, with little content other than still sitting and TV. For people who used to have an active life, there's going to be a rough transition anyway, and if you're demented, it's going to be extra difficult, as you're gradually losing the grip on your own reality. She further points to frequent changes in staff and high levels of medication as contributing factors. And as she says, "A man like my father, who has he been before in life? What did he like to do? What does he still like to do?" ‘Perhaps he had experienced more joy and meaning if he had still been allowed to ‘fix’ things, even though it was necessarily not always repaired!’ This is where we're at the core. People need to fill life with meaning even in sickness or old age. That's why I'm so happy about the reform Life all my life, which was put forward last year. We need a more dementia-friendly society. If everyone can just a little bit more about dementia, everyday life will be much easier for everyone affected by this disease. The only way to create a dementia-friendly society, an open and inclusive society for anyone living with a dementia is to talk about it. Persons with dementia, like everyone else, have both the need and the right to participate in different communities. Many live with dementia for many years, and some get dementia at a time when they are still in work and are responsible for caring. Therefore, dementia is a matter of concern to society as a whole, and also to the labour market. The goal of a society that provides opportunities for social participation for all, demands the design of the physical environment, thinking, attitudes and political priorities. According to the Institute of Public Health, dementia is the fourth largest cause of death in this country, more than tripled in 20 years. Today, over 77 000 people in Norway have dementia, and the number is likely to double by 2040. Of those who live with dementia today, we assume that about 4,000 are under 65 years of age. More than 350,000 are close relatives of someone with dementia. Brain disorders cause great stress to individuals and families. Many diseases and injuries in the brain change the patient’s personality, or patients experience fatigue that affects both them and the family. The socio-economic costs of disease and brain damage are high. There are several different diseases and brain damage that can lead to dementia. Alzheimer’s disease is the most common type, but there are also a number of other types of dementia. Then I ask, what will the Council of State do to make us better able to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11623	Improving the offer of people with dementia and their relatives is a high priority of the government. We are well aware of the demographic changes described by the representative of Stensland. This is a challenge that we take seriously, and which we have addressed, among other things. through Demenplan 2020, Care 2020 and Life for Life – the quality reform for the elderly. Dementia plan 2020 is the government’s five-year plan to improve the provision of services to people with dementia and their relatives. The goal is to create a more dementia-friendly society that takes care of and integrates people with dementia. The plan deals with, among other things: on prevention, diagnosis and, in particular, follow-up after diagnosis. Dementia plan 2020 now enters its last year. National monitoring of the provision of services by municipalities to people with dementia in 2018 shows that there has been a positive development during the planning period. Significant amounts of information and training material on dementia have been developed and disseminated, including: Family school, which is a meeting place for exchange of experience and knowledge for those closest to dementia. It is important to ensure a common basic knowledge for those who work in the services, and therefore it is gratifying to see that almost all municipalities in the country have or have had employees who have participated in the Demensorgens ABC and the Eldersorgens ABC. We have a statutory obligation for municipalities to offer day-time activities to residents with dementia from 1 January 2020. People with dementia shall have meaningful and good experiences and related necessary relief. Tests have been carried out to develop models for systematic post-diagnosis follow-up. This contributes to the establishment of procedures for the follow-up of several municipalities. This contributes to the regular follow-up of persons with dementia and its relatives. They receive both information and offers of proper action or service in a timely manner. Norway was one of the first countries in the world to draw up a national dementia plan. The two dementia plans Demenal 2015 and Demenal 2020 have been important for putting dementia on the agenda and have contributed to a positive development of services. But we're not on target. There are still challenges that require effort, and therefore we will make a new dementia plan in accordance with the Dementia Plan 2020. One main challenge is that too few people are being investigated and diagnosed. Only 56 pst. of those suspected of dementia, have been investigated and have been diagnosed. This is demanding for several reasons. These include: important to exclude other diseases and to eliminate doubt and uncertainty both for the individual and for the individual. Furthermore, a diagnosis is important in order to plan and implement the necessary measures and services and to provide the individual with the necessary knowledge. There is therefore a need to work on how to investigate dementia, and also why. There has been a positive development, but it is still a challenge that many people with dementia do not get an adapted offer. The 2015 REDIC survey showed that local residents with extensive dementia needs often receive relatively little help from the municipality. National monitoring in 2018 showed that only 40 pst. by municipalities, they are systematically involved in the training and introduction of care centres. So it's still going to be 60 pst. by the non-systematic municipalities. Furthermore, we see that too many people are left to themselves. We have to make sure that people with dementia and their relatives get good follow-up and meaningful activities after the diagnosis is made, rather than spending time searching, searching and waiting. Demenplan 2020 and Demenplan 2015 have focused mainly on the municipalities. The municipalities are central, but we will also capture other arenas in the health and care services and society, too. The OECD has pointed out that hospitals are to a small extent organised for persons with cognitive failure. We will take a closer look at this in the new plan. A response we have received in the work on a new plan of dementia is that many people experience stigma, and people with dementia are not heard in matters relating to themselves. It's painful and makes the disease even harder to live with. It is therefore important to remove prejudices and increase knowledge of dementia. This applies to health professionals, relatives and anyone who meets people with dementia in their everyday lives. More knowledge will help more people to see symptoms of dementia and seek health care in the past. There is no cure for dementia. The only thing we know that works is more knowledge. More needs knowledge, so that we can meet people who have dementia, with understanding, respect and care. Therefore, we need to continue researching causes, prevention and treatment. In the autumn, a new research centre opened up in Bergen to investigate serious brain diseases such as ALS, MS, Parkinson’s disease and dementia. The centre will allow several patients to participate in clinical studies. We also need to look at the issue of violence that the Evening Post has revealed. The magnitude of discrepancies caused by violence against employees and residents exposed is alarmingly high. We know that over 80 pst. of the residents of a nursing home have some form of dementia. It is important that the individual nursing home builds on the competence of employees in dealing with and preventing violence at home. We also know that many people with dementia are still healthy and fast in the body, and being in activity can work positively and prevent anxiety and aggression. We are already working on a new plan of dementia and are collecting input from users, relatives, staff in the services and professionals. As a result of the demographic changes, we expect an increase in the demand for health and care services, particularly among those over 80 years of age. So we need to think again about how we're going to meet this development. The government is committed to ensuring the diversity of housing solutions. Most people want to live at home, and we need to look at solutions that help more people plan and take responsibility for their own age. Then, of course, we have to provide enough happy places for those who need it. The government has therefore started work on a knowledge base in which we consider how best to organise the country’s instruments to ensure a diversity of forms of housing. Among other things, we have promote a consultation summit to propose concrete models or measures for the future housing of older people. In particular, we are asking that models of the type of generation houses and solutions allow people to live at home. We are in the process of implementing the quality reform Life throughout our lives. The aim of the reform is to enable older people to master life longer and to have a safe and active old age. Life throughout life will help municipalities learn from each other and implement good solutions for activity and community, food and meals, health care, relationships and an age-friendly society. A Council for an age-friendly Norway has been set up, and in all municipalities and county municipalities, the elderly council is to be set up to consult older people in important decision-making processes at all levels. The government will also create a separate senior agent. All these initiatives together shall contribute to anchoring and guiding. Older people will be heard, and society will be more age-friendly. The municipalities that integrate the solutions into Life throughout their lives into their municipal plans will from 2021 become a priority in earmarked schemes. We will come back to that in budgetary terms. To stimulate activity in municipalities already in 2020, we propose a new grant of 23 million. kr for the development of good models of better quality, competence and continuity of care services – in line with the areas of Life throughout life. We take demographic developments seriously, and this development underpins several of our efforts and actions and will, of course, do so in new initiatives as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11667	As the government councils are involved, we expect more people to live longer, and more people to live longer with better health, as somatic health tends to do. Previously, common causes of death were infections and heart disease – the classic causes of death – but now we see that more and more people survive heart disease and infections and live longer. Then we see that brain diseases, and especially dementia, become more prominent in the disease image. So to put it a little bit on the verge: the better we get to cure somatic disease, the greater the risk of diseases related to the musculoskeletal system, mental health and brain health. Unfortunately, the level of knowledge is different in the municipalities, the quality level is different in the municipalities, and we see that there are different bets in the municipalities. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Council of State points to arrangements we have to stimulate municipalities that will invest in this field. At the same time, there's a trap in it: that it's just the nice ones that get better, and that we can't go with the whole team. But I am convinced that the kind of reward schemes we have now come up with is right. I also want to point to the Brain Council, which is doing an important job here with the National Association for Public Health. I myself am a dementia friend and encourage all three who are involved in this debate to become a dementia friend. The National Association does a really good job of informing about dementia and of helping relatives and, in particular, patients affected by this disease. Once upon a time, this is not a blue light disease – no one gets into a hospital with a blue light on the roof because they are demented. It's not those who scream loudest, but there's a lot of people suffering in the quiet, both relatives and patients. Lucky places are one thing, but the most important thing is that those who get a good place to stay in a nursing home with their contents. That's why I'm glad that the Council of State mentions Life all my life, and I'd like to see that we're tougher with the municipalities so that they use the tool that it is. The most important thing is to create security. Deceptive users with dementia tend to be the result of insecurity and confusion. That's what you have to work against, and then there's another way to think about, both in terms of housing, staffing and service content, the way to go. The same is true social planning, and the technical selections or plan selections in the municipalities also have a role to play in designing a dementia-friendly society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11680	It is important, even when we discuss what is involved in care for the elderly, to remember that the vast majority of the elderly are resource-intensive – they are healthy and quick and do their own thing. Often, when you discuss these questions, you almost get the impression that everyone is nurturing. Fortunately, it's not like that. Nevertheless, it is incredibly important that we address the challenges we see, and I will also praise the Evening Post for the series of reports they have had on violence in hospitals. It is incredibly bad for the relatives of those who expose others to violence – something they do simply because they are sick; they have a dementia that causes them to act as they do. Of course, it's also bad for the relatives of those who are exposed to this violence, and that's why we have to do what we can to reduce it. A grip that we're going to ask the House Bank to look at is using technology that makes people not go into rooms other than their own, because they have something around their necks or around their hands that makes them not come into other rooms. We also need to have more transparency about the quality of hospitals. That is why the Health Directorate is already looking at quality indicators – we may need more of them. We also have to consider having openness down to the hospital level, so that we actually know more about what's going on at home. Today we know a lot about hospitals, we know a lot about the schools where our children go, but we don't know much about the individual nursing home and what quality is there. The community has been commissioned to look at its hospitals and its municipalities: who is the one who succeeds in following up this kind of anomaly, and what can we learn from them? The representative of Stensland was at the National Association for Public Health, and I also want to take the opportunity to give them credit – I have met them as the basis for the new dementia plan and received many good input. I also have to say that it made a strong impression on me to meet married couples where one was sick of Alzheimer's and the other was healthy, when they told me how they're going to meet in society. One couple says that one day you're treated just like everyone else, and then you get this diagnosis and go out on the street and feel that people are almost looking through you and talking to your spouse instead of to you. It's just as if people think that when you get this diagnosis, you've forgotten everything. It's not like that. This is a disease that develops over time, and it is important that most people have knowledge of it, so that you are treated with the respect you actually deserve. This is a matter we are going to follow up. It's important for the whole community that we're equipped to accept the many more elderly it's going to be, and that's also going to get a dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11693	I have to thank you for having this item on the agenda. Although there are not so many people here who are debating with us, I am at least happy that the topic is being put on the agenda. Several people have talked about Aftenposten's report on the power of health services, and that is something that has actually been discussed in the Stortinget, the need for a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals. It's been voted down twice in the last four years – I guess so – and I'm looking forward to getting such a survey now. It is clear that some of the elected members both against the addition and against other residents are caused by people with dementia, who may become an optimist or suffer from personality disorders. The old psychiatry we talk too little about. I think age psychiatry is an area that should be strengthened for years to come. So I just want to deal with some of the issues that I think are very important when it concerns the supply of those with dementia. Daytime activities places think I'm probably the most important thing to do quickly. It has been referred to as the missing intermediate in the care chain, and I am completely united. We know that there is a need for 9,300 places – there are old numbers, the need is probably even greater today – and we know that the municipalities in very close proximity have managed to establish so many places, that is probably about half. The current Demenplan states that this is one of the most important actions. The Center Party and I have called for an even greater commitment to this, except that it has now been legalised. But it must be expanded in line with the need, and there we are far from today. The other thing I want to do is touch. It's related to daytime activities, because they're related to at least the home builders of dementia being wiped out. They make a fantastic effort year after year, but they often end up getting sick themselves. Getting a day's activity space to a person who lives at home will not only be a good thing for those who have a dementia, but it will also be a great download and provide security for those who are affected. Now we're waiting for a touching strategy – which at least I thought would come in the fall, but I don't know if he's been delayed, you might tell the Council of State – and we're looking forward to a strategy that actually means a change for the relatives. Then it's about diagnosis – it's also in the current dementia plan – it's a problem that one goes too long without getting a dementia diagnosis. That's not good, because it's also about prevention, organisation, etc. I don't know if there's been a problem in the last few years, it's been a long time, but it's clear that it's very crucial that more people get a diagnosis when someone suspects that it might be. Fall prevention is also something I have to talk about, because there are a lot of people with dementia who live a long time with dementia, but who may die of a fall. Driving traps among those with dementia is also a very important area. Medication has also been brought up here. Overmedication is very much about, but we also need to be aware that for some people with dementia there is also a risk of undertreatment. Special pain management is often too small because one cannot express pain. I also think it is very important that a person acquires competence in hospitals, etc. for proper pain management. The thing about stigma and shame can't be mentioned often enough. I have experienced that, when we are near 2020, there is close shame and stigma to this disease group. There we are quite a few cross-political that we need to talk more about it. That people who have contracted the disease are standing up in the media, I believe is incredibly positive. We've had an example of that, and often, it's amazingly positive. Finally, there are many concrete measures in the 2020 plan, and I am wondering: Is the government satisfied with how far one has come today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11712	Thank you for the debate. Finally, I would say, I'm not quite satisfied. I wouldn't have promoted this interpellation if I were completely satisfied. We're never going to get completely into the goal, so we're going to have to keep pressing on these more silent diagnostics. In the health debate, it is very often, as I said in my previous post, the blue light medicine that is winning out. Then we have a responsibility to listen to the weakest groups, and it's like those who have this kind of diagnosis. The previous speaker was concerned with this with diagnosis. It's clear that when I talk about knowledge and information, it's about people getting to know the disease and looking for help in the past if they see the symptoms. It is also about the primary health service being obsessive about this diagnostic group – one thing is determined, but also about the availability of good services for older people in municipalities, where one can seek help. Many municipalities also have their own health services for the elderly, and that is a good model in this way. Fall also became the theme here all of a sudden. We know that over 10,000 Norwegians get hip fractures after a fall, and 25 pst. they die in a year. One of the most common causes of infirmity is hip fracture on a case-by-case basis. It's something that's related to this diagnosis. Again, there are many reasons to have discussions about dementia. I would like to thank both for the answers given by the Council of State and for the debate we have had. I hope this can be the beginning of a new plan of dementia and further work on this, and not least a reminder that the most important thing for those who are affected is that they get content in their lives. Then the Life-Reform is a good answer that the municipalities should use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11725	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate. It's a very important debate. With regard to Dementia Plan 2020, I would say it's going in the right direction. But we're not goals, and that's why we're going to make a new plan, which is probably also going to deal with some of the same themes that we've had in the past. For example, when it comes to skills development, we're not on target, and they ask us if we ever get there. We have to work on it all the time. So I fully agree with the representative Toppe that we're not talking too little about age psychiatry, and that it's also part of this. That's why it's so important to build up knowledge in the care of the elderly. Daytime activities are of great importance not least to relatives and those concerned, in order to get out. Now it is legalized, and then we expect the municipalities to follow it up. But it is also important that the municipalities have a different offer, because there is a completely different need for you to be demented, but healthy in your body, than if you are demented and not getting around so much. The relatives are exhausted, we know that, so we are now working on a strategy and action plan. Now we're going to add it up, so it's going to take a little longer. It is exposed to spring, but we hope that it will help us put this on the map even more, and that we will get even better services, which will benefit the relatives, who are making a great effort today, and who will relieve the public. More people have to get a diagnosis, I totally agree, we have to keep working on that. We also need to continue working on what follow-up you get after you have been diagnosed. The many experiences are simply to be sent out to a large black hole where you have to find where you can get help, and who you should contact. Here it's necessary that we manage to get more streamlined services, which means you don't have to do this exploration. Medicinal products are important, but sedatives cannot replace lack of activity. I was visiting Bamble Sykhhemjem earlier this year. There they had had a cloudy consumption of tranquilizers. They had a lot of yawning. They included the entire operation of the screened department and made sure to increase the manning and take the people who lived there, more out. Drug use went down sharply, and the same way went with the leakage. They just got a completely different department after they took these grips. I believe that many more have to look at similar solutions. It's not always medicine that is the solution, but simply to operate in another way and increase basic manning. What we see is that it often costs no more, but it provides better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-17.ana.ud484e11740	So the debate is on case No. 44 is over. It is also the case that the current map has been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
