ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e35	The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e42	On behalf of Red, I would like to make suggestions on the Nav scandal and distrust of the Council of State Anniken Hauglie.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Since this is a motion of censure, the President will make a change on today's map by making case No. 3, Unit, be dealt with before cases No. 1 and 2 – this to determine the further examination of the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e80	The President proposes that referral No. 79 is dealt with in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 39(d), which means that a decision is taken immediately. The Bears of Moxnes have asked for the word. The President will give rise to one entry from each batch group concerning the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e89	To the procedure and procedure: there is no contradiction, we believe, between the mistrust proposal and a thorough examination of the complex as a whole. In order to give the parties who wish to do so more time to consider the proposal, we propose that the proposal be sent to the Committee for further consideration, in line with previous proposals on mistrust. I refer to Document 8:18 S for 1988-1989, from Carl I. Hagen, promoted in January and discussed in April, and as well as all other Document 8 proposals promoted in this Chamber – and according to Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure § 39 b, to give the parties that want to do so more time to assess distrust of the Council of State Annikan Hauglie. The Storting, if they want it, can decide the treatment here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e96	The Labour Party is committed to following the President's recommendation to deal with the matter immediately, i.e. tonight. We think it is unfortunate to have a mistrust proposal in Stortinget over time, for Christmas, when we know that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has started a thorough work. So I recommend that the Labour Party vote for us to deal with the proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e101	This matter is serious, and there are going to be many crossroads during the handling of the matter. The Central Party shares the view of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, that a motion of censure cannot be excluded at a later stage, but that the Stortinget must have a consideration of this matter, the questions asked by the Ministry, and the hearings to be held in the Control Committee. To decide on a motion of censure today would be unnatural, as unnatural as it would be to send it to a committee. For the general rule in the case of mistrust proposals, they are dealt with immediately, not sent to committee, and there are many good reasons for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e106	The representative, Mr Moxnes, has promoted and justified a motion of censure. It is a serious matter, and it is common for someone then to handle it in such a way that a vote over it immediately. It'll also be right in this context. Sending it to a committee which already has a case in the same field, namely the presentation of the Council of State, will be totally unnatural and will interfere with that matter. So I recommend the Right Group vote for us to deal with it the way the President has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e111	This is a serious matter and one that we are also in the middle of thorough processes to get an answer to in the control committee. It is therefore unfortunate that we are now facing a situation where it is to be concluded in this room before we have received the answers that the victims in the case both deserve and in the opinion of SV. Therefore, SV refers to examples of customs and practices that suggest mistrust to the committee, so that we do not have to make an hasty conclusion on the matter of trust in the Council of State. For the SV, it is important to get to the bottom of the matter, and it also implies any new questions to other government councils where the trust issue should be assessed. It also includes asking questions to the Prime Minister. Therefore, I would recommend that the SV's group vote in favour of a transmission to the committee, so that we can take this in the right order and get to the bottom. In this context, the SV Group is also open to the conclusion that the conclusion can end with what the representative Moxnes has proposed, namely a mistrust of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e120	We will also follow the recommendation on treatment proposed by the President, so I recommend that the Group of the Progressive Party vote in favour of the President's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e125	That's all the reason why the Storting has a very humble attitude and approach to such a serious matter. Having an untreated mistrust proposal hanging over the matter for an indefinite period of time, I think I can draw the attention away from other things that absolutely seem to be seen under the light in this matter. So I think the Left Group is following the recommendation from the President to deal with this matter immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e130	It is a very serious proposal that has been put forward today. We believe that this must also be dealt with today and follow the recommendation of the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e136	Several have not asked for the word. We then go to voting on the method of reporting point 79, document 8:17 S for 2019–2020. Alternatively, there will be a vote on the proposal by the President on the procedure under Rule 39(d) and the proposal by the representative of Mr Bjørn Moxnes on committee procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e152	The President will then state that, for 2019-2020, by the representative of the Björn Moxnes, the proposal for a representative will be set up as case No. 4 on today's map, after the financial debate. Then we go to the case number. 1 and 2 on the amended agenda No 23rd Last@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e180	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time shall be limited to 4 hours and 45 minutes, excluding lines and wood-minute inserts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 80 minutes, Right 70 minutes, Advance Party 45 minutes, Center Party 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Left 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines will be given with replies from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders and other members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e195	Let me start by thanking the Finance Committee for a good cooperation in the sense that we have kept all the deadlines and followed all the rules. It's the advantage of majority government, that everything is going to go well when it's going to go like that. What we're really doing today is adopting the big, important priorities for the coming year. What we are adopting today is in every way the most important management tool for the Storting and therefore also for what is going to happen in the country in the coming year. Since the 2013 Grand Prix elections, the four non-socialist parties have adopted seven consecutive state budgets, where we have managed both to initiate or continue important long-term reforms to adapt to a changed Norway, and also to deal with unforeseen events such as the oil price drop and the refugee crisis, which came in 2015 and 2016. Each State budget adopted in this Chamber is adopted in a special situation for the country. Therefore, we must be able to balance in finding room for important stakes in our common well-being, and for those who need the community most in their lives. We will also be able to continue and launch reforms that will equip Norway in the long term for a future that we do not fully know today, and we will contribute to the creation of jobs and industries across the country to secure individual jobs, but also to ensure the income of a sustainable welfare society for our children and grandchildren. All this must be done within the economic framework allowed in the economic situation of the country at all times. This budget, adopted today, I will claim to be able to balance all these considerations precisely in good cooperation between four parties. The climate challenge and the prevention of man-made climate change are the biggest challenge of our time. Although we have much left to do, emissions in Norway continue to decline. Per person, emissions in 2018 are the lowest since 1990. This does not mean that we are on target, and that is why I am pleased that we are also adopting a budget today that is setting in motion and strengthening new measures. Enova has been one of the main tools of this government — a tool that ensures that new solutions and technologies are created, but also based on market thinking. In this year's budget, the government proposes to transfer 3,184 million. kr to Enova, which means a strengthening in order to invest and compensate for new challenges. We continue the electric car benefits because we know that the transport sector is one of our most important emission sectors. The policy we are pursuing works – the emissions from transport are estimated to decrease by 30 pst. by 2030 only with today's policy. We're helping to move more of goods onto sea and track, we're providing more green shipping, we're increasing climate investment by 200 million. kr, and we take care of our nature by strengthening and continuing the work against marine pollution. The second thing we need to do to get a sustainable welfare society that is both good to live in and has a welfare state that can carry is to provide good education for those who need it. Right now, new curricula are being rolled out in school. It's a trade renewal that adapts to our school the reality that children live in. This budget also monitors money for new learning materials, both digital and others, in order to ensure consistency between these issues. We strengthen equipment literacy and do it better, so that the students in the professional sector who have had a lot of money are now more covered by this. In agreement between the four government parties here at Stortinget, we were also given more money to strengthen the equipment in the schools. We have several measures to prevent young people from falling away, and measures to ensure that those who have fallen out of high school come back. This budget introduces the last week of an 11-month study aid. The loan fund is now also adapted for adults, so that it does not only apply to students of a certain age who are to take education. We know that more people are going to have to learn all their lives. Since this government took over and the four cooperation parties started to control health policy, waiting times have fallen by two weeks for patients. At the same time, we have thought anew through the introduction of packaging for cancer and for drug use and mental health. This means something to people, perhaps, in some of the most difficult situations they are in their lives. In this budget, we further propose to increase the activity of hospitals — so that more people can receive treatment — by nearly 1.6 billion. kr. In addition, it is quite essential to have modern, good hospital buildings. Overall, health businesses plan to spend almost 16 billion in 2020. kr for the upgrading and construction of hospitals. The action plan for the drug field contributes to helping more people to deal with their drug problems and to better adapt their needs. Therefore, this is also reinforced by 150 million. kr. Of course, the welfare state should be there for those of us who need it, when they need it. But some of the most important steps are often for those who have poor advice during a period when they really need some extra help. In this budget, we are doing something that is important too few, but incredibly important for them. We introduce free core time into the kindergarten for children in receptions of asylum also for two- and three-year-olds. It means better integration, but also a daily activity for some of the most vulnerable children in our society. The moderation in the SFO means that no one is now going to pay more than 6 pst. of its wages and salaries at SFO prices. If we do that, we're going to test out in such a way that more children get involved, more children get involved, and fewer people have to go home from school because they can't afford to participate. Of course, all these things are important, but it is vital that we have a country we can defend. This budget completes the defence long-term plan and increases defence investment by 2.4 billion. kr. We've bought new fighter planes, new surveillance planes, we've got new fighter planes, submarines, marine patrol planes, rescue helicopters, and that's how we've made and make big, heavy investments to secure our country for the future. I could frame up all the nice things we do, and I could stand here for hours. But the fact is that none of these things we could have done if we didn't have values to distribute. This means that we must have a country that creates jobs and values, but also that as politicians we must dare to reform, ask questions about money used correctly and well enough. I'm very proud that we have a majority on the Stortinget that doesn't first resort to tax increases every time you want to do something more or bet on something new. That is why we have important reforms such as the red tape and efficiency reform, which over time have made sure that the public sector has been able to downgrade, streamline and operate a little smarter every year. That's why we've created New Roads, which means we're getting more money out of the road investments we're already making. More roads and more railways also mean that people get faster. With the railway reform, we know that we're saving money, but more importantly, we're getting a better offer for the users out there because we're making some demands that even those who are going to deliver these services have to compete to get permission to do so. Just because we're focusing on knowledge and research, we're also equiping ourselves for a new time. Just because we're betting on more inclusion and that several of those outside come in, it also means something about the sustainability and the ability of this room to distribute the money afterwards. We politicians have no money. All the money we prioritize, including the $1,400 billion. We have to give priority to today, is people's money. They're created out in the country, and they have to be properly managed. That's why it's good to see that currently things are going well in the Norwegian economy. There are 50,000 more jobs created. Four out of five of them are created in the private sector. It contributes to the sustainability of our welfare society. But we must also make sure that we are rusted for more difficult times to come. That is why it is very gratifying that we are today also going to adopt a tight government budget. You only use 2.6 pst. of the value of the oil fund. This means that we adapt by having a negative impulse in the budget – the state will not help to heat up the economy as it is now. But at the same time, if we look around the world, we see increasing protectionism, growing trade war, brexit – many big, dark clouds around us for a small, open economy like Norway. With this budget, we also retain the possibility of compensating if there are more difficult times. Norway has always adjusted this way. We have been adapted to the economic situation and ready to take action if necessary. Finally, we must also discuss the alternative budgets today. I haven't spent much time on them in my introduction now, because they're going to get a lot of attention later. But I just want to take note of one thing: it's quite obvious that you disagree with the opposition – parties are different – but the differences have become larger. Differences have increased over seven years – the distance is greater. While individual batches have started the process of creating a platform, it looks more difficult than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e236	The representative Asheim is talking about creating jobs, how important it is, and that's exactly what my question is going to be about. For one of the things the government has done with this budget is that they have introduced a CO2 tax on electrolysis and metallurgical processes, which has quite significant consequences for many industrial businesses around the country. One example is Benteler on Raufoss, which the government is applying to $3 million. SEK in additional expenses. It is an enterprise that last year introduced new technologies that reduced annual emissions by over 600 tonnes of CO2, and they have plans to reduce emissions further. But it costs money, and increasing the expenses incurred by the government makes this difficult. What we in the Labour Party rather want us to do is listen to the industry. We have asked for an agreement in the spirit of cooperation between the parties on how much we should reduce emissions, and on how a phaser of CO2 is charged. In this way, a worker secures and lays the foundation for new opportunities. The question is why the government makes it harder for industrial companies to make climate-friendly investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e241	I disagree with the premise that we're making it harder, but this is an interesting discussion. Let me start with the examples. We're going to have to adjust this along the way, and we're also going to have to have discussions with the industry about how, on the one hand, we can make sure that we have predictability to cut emissions and that these kinds of measures do not get unreasonable results. What we have chosen to do is to increase the CO2 tax by 5 pst. every year. In this way, we say that emissions are going to cost, and that it is going to pay off to invest in environmental technologies. On the other hand, for example, we grieve. for CCS technology, and we provide e.g.: to take all the grips the industry needs to invest. The green shift is not just easy. There are going to be some demands both for us and for private business to reduce emissions, and doing so in a predictable way with a predictable increase in the CO-tax will be smarter than dealing with each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e246	No one has asked to deal with each individual matter. Industry organisations are calling for this type of agreement. This would ensure the permissive conditions of the representative Asheim, but it would also secure the jobs. Because it's not just about Benteler, it's about Metallco on the West Toten, and it's about Yara in Porsgrund. The fate of the ammonia factory in Here Island lies in the hands of, among others, Asheim representatives. Yara will increase costs of between 20 and 25 million. kr. These are quite significant amounts of money. Yara's production of ammonia is one of the world's most energy-efficient, but is very strongly exposed to competition from more environmentally and climate-friendly productions elsewhere in the world. And that's what I saw a little bit on the verge here – that the government thought it was a good idea to put Norwegian jobs in jeopardy without even letting them out globally. I almost have to ask why the government really thought it was a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e251	This is probably the discussion we're going to have to be in a lot of progress towards 2030. Because it is going to be examples that we are making policy decisions that reduce emissions at home in Norway, where one will always be able to point out that another country is making it more polluting. I think we know that debate from quite a number of different sectors. The fact is that what we are doing now is, on the one hand, strengthening our technological and industrial policies in such a way that we are able to reduce emissions, but at the same time there must be some predictability that emissions will cost more. As far as the concrete examples are concerned, we have also said that we are going to have a discussion about whether it is possible within the space of action we have to look at these types of things. But I'm absolutely convinced that if we're going to achieve our climate goals in 2030, we can't go back every time we meet someone who says that this could be done with even more pollution in another country. We also have to dry down in Norway, and I think the Norwegian industry should be proud of the job they are doing to cut their emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e258	In Norway we have had it this way that if you worked in a car shop, for example, and had a workshop, it was okay that you could repair your car at the workshop and get a discount. If you worked in a Montér or a construction product store, it was okay that you got a little discount on the plank. And then the party of progress and right came into the government and thought that that kind of good for ordinary workers was too good. The fact that ordinary workers could get a little discount if they worked at the store would end, it would have to be taxed harder, because that kind of benefits in kind was some sort of tax evasion – those who work on the bus, those who work on the train, those who do the everyday job for you and me in a way. So the Auditor's Association has said that this new regulation is completely impossible to understand. Employers sent a new letter to the government yesterday, where they wrote that this must be changed. Accounting Norway has said that this legislation makes inexorably common people offenders when the legislation is so difficult. Why is it so important for the Right Party and the Advance Party to tax those who drive the bus, and those who do the job, in a harder way than what is done today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e265	Let me just start by reminding the representative Battle Violence Vedum that he is presenting an alternative budget that increases the overall tax and tax burden by nearly 4 billion. kr. So if you look for lower taxes and taxes, it's on this side and not on that side. The alternative parties he wants to cooperate with want to increase taxes by a place between 10 and 40 billion. kr. So I can almost repeat the Minister of Finance's points, namely that if the representative Battle Violence Vedum is concerned with lower taxes and taxes, he should cooperate on the right and not the left. That being said, we're going to be able to do two things. Of course, on the one hand, we have to make sure that we do not have unreasonable rules. That's why you've cleaned up a lot of this. But on the other hand, we're going to have a proper and tidy working life. Seeing that different employers start making discounts instead of paying means that the employee does not receive social rights or pensions based on the remuneration of the job they do. That is why we are introducing, for example: tax on tips as well. It's not to be difficult, but it's to make sure that the salary you get as a waitress is also valid when you get a pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e272	I have some very subtle numbers: Frogn 30 million, Big 70 million, Fredrikstad 170 million, Salangen 19.6 million, Ullensaker 21, Ørland 40, Jevnaker 11, North Odal 19, Stange 20, Orkland 25, Dyreø 10, Grue 20, Åsnes 30, Ringsaker 48. This is a cut that has been notified now in the municipal economy around the country. There are now municipal politicians here and they have to cut in the care of the elderly and increase the payment in kindergarten and SFO, in municipalities where sick leave is already high, and where the number of unskilled in school is also high. The budget is about choosing what we're going to spend money for. Why is it more important for the Right to ensure tax relief for the richest than to ensure care for the elderly and good schools and a safety net for those most disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e280	This budget has no tax concessions. It's become popular to talk about strawmen. This is like putting up a strawman, and then arguing about it. There are no tax cuts in this budget, but what it is is, for example. that we're just moderating prices both in the SFO and kindergarten, that's that we're finding money for 2,000 new lucky day care places, that's that we're cleaning up our hospitals, that we're building our roads and doing all these things. So on top of that, the local economy is even better every year than it was under the red-green. And if Andersen doesn't believe me, she can only look at the ROBEK list. How many municipalities are actually struggling financially now versus when the representative Andersen and her party also ruled the Ministry of Finance? It's far less. So both having a good community economy out there, which I fully agree is important to our well-being, and the fact that we've got the efforts we've got, shows that this is a government that prioritises welfare for most people in front of what SV does, namely, tax increases for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e287	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e292	There's a lot we can change with one budget. We can make sure that ordinary people get more to route, that we can bring down the differences between people, no matter who they are and where they live, and then we can put a plan to cut emissions while we show that it is possible to support the creation of jobs in this country. We do that in the Labour Party in our alternative budget, because we want a fairer and more climate friendly Norway, where more people get the opportunity to work. I'm starting with the last one, that's that emission has to go down, and we're forced to do it without people being afraid to lose their jobs. The conversion must be fair. At Ålgård Offset, which is a success in Rogaland, there are 75 people working. It is a printing plant that was established 40 years ago in a small room at Ålgård, and then they have grown gradually. Every year, they have invested large amounts of money in being ahead of both technological and competitive. They have not only survived; they have also experienced growth at a time when competition from foreign printers is high. What's happening now is that the government is charging them an increased cost of CO2 emissions in an area where they've had an exemption. As it is today, Ålgård Offset cannot reduce its emission but also reduce its activity. The question is, why does the government do this? Why do they create insecurity about jobs? The working party would much rather have a cut-out and create jobs. Then we're forced to include the industry in the team. These are the people who have the workers, the ones who have the solutions for the future. In many companies, there are also those who have the competence to make Norway more climate friendly, while helping to raise our export income. Then we're content to make arrangements for it. So even if the Labour Party, including in our alternative budget, increases the CO 2 charge – in fact more than the government – we maintain the exemption from electrolysis and metallurgical processes to secure the industries and businesses the possibility of a real change. We would rather enter into an agreement with the industry – in the spirit of the cooperation of the parties – in order to release and keep competent workers at work. There are many entrepreneurs and business owners who have said that it is difficult to collect risk capital and early-stage capital, someone who will join them when they are in the most deferred phase. So in our alternative budget, we keep Investinor's potential for direct investment, and we also see a billion more dollars for industrial development. Most of the money goes to the environmental technology system. The working party thinks it's time to see the industrial capabilities in the North Sea in context. This is about giving our yard long-termity, that they know that they have their backs on some of the important investments that the country has to make – whether it is about electrification of the oil and gas platforms, or it's about sea-winding, where Norway should have the objective that we take 10 pst. of the global marine wind market, or a clear advance for carbon capture and storage. The working party will have two capture projects for CO 2. We will devote more to research and development on carbon capture and storage, and on behalf of the industries we also demand an investment decision. There is no reason to continue to create uncertainty about this. It is a time for action, and it will also help secure jobs for our country. Another thing that's time is to spend your community's money on the community. Right now the rich get richer, and the poor can't keep up. We're forced to get differences down to get the odds up, and then we can't keep throwing money at people who are strong. It's probably tax cuts for the richest people now. There are probably advantages for those who buy luxury electric cars. It's time to put the community first. We would rather have charging stations throughout the country than continue to provide those who can afford expensive electric cars, which is equivalent to half a billion dollars in VAT exemptions. We would much rather strengthen our hospitals, care for the elderly and kindergartens than give billions of money in their pockets to people with large assets and high incomes. Our country is facing some important road choices, and it's really just to say that when the government cuts, they do it to those who have the least. They cut in kids who need spectacle support or dental regulation, or cut in young people who go on redundancy money. When the Labour Party cuts, we take for ourselves the ones that have the most of them. That's what's fairest, that's what makes the most for redistribution, and that's what makes it easier to make the differences between people less. The Labour Party has several suggestions that mean something to ordinary people's wallets. We want to reduce the maximum price in kindergartens by $2,200 a year, we want to increase the commuting deduction, we want to double the trade-union deduction, we want to increase the payments to single minimum pensioners by $4,000. We also have a fairer tax arrangement, where those who have incomes of NOK 750,000 or less, with our average income, will also pay less in taxes. So ordinary people will be better off with the Labour Party's alternative budget than what they do with right-wing government. But those who have a lot of money, either in the form of high incomes or large wealth, obviously have to contribute more. It's going to be fine, because they can afford it, and our community will need it. So it's important to give young people more opportunities. We are forced to build more to repair less. In our alternative budget, we suggest that young people under the age of 18 should not be allowed to pay the medical costs, that young people under the age of 20 should not be obliged to pay the physical therapist's property, that young people under the age of 25 should not be obliged to pay for the help of mental health protection. All of this is about dealing with the problems early, so that our young people get a better chance in life. When we see an increasing number of young people being declared decapitated — in fact, four new ones every single working day in the last six years — it is time to think again. Therefore, we from the Labour Party have proposed an activity reform for young disabled people, with a job guarantee. This is why we are so committed to prevention, because in the future we need to be able to offer our young people better follow-up, both on health and on competence, to ensure that they have the opportunity to get to work, to have their own income and to be able to support themselves. To afford all of this is to prioritize well-being to everyone and not to tax cuts to the richest. It is about prioritizing what is the most important thing in life to people and making it the most important thing in politics. I have recorded that the right-wing government is accelerating the work with a perspective message, that it will come next year, and not in 2021, and then I understand that the Minister of Finance is inviting an idea to cut expenses. We're going to have the opportunity to talk a lot about this during this debate, but I should like them to be equally concerned that there is not enough income generated for this country. As we know, we are forced to create before we can share, but the part of the people in the job has gone down over time. Today, we lack 50,000 people at work just to be on average for the last ten years, and if we're going to get back to the top of Europe, we need 200,000 more jobs. The government is busy that there are good times in the Norwegian economy. They're quite right about that, and so it's extra unfortunate that they can't spend the good time having more people at work. In our alternative budget, we propose more labour market measures. We propose a reform of skills that is owned by the social partners, which is being rolled out industry. We're proposing 1,000 new colleges. We propose the start of a professional billion to secure more skilled workers for the future. Now, when we're planning for the future, it's absolutely crucial that we get the income to the country up. We are forced to get on the legs of several industries that can increase export income from the mainland. This is because we owe it to the next generations to use the possibilities that exist today, in a way that will also guarantee them tomorrow, and then we have to cut more into climate emissions. The government will not achieve the goals it has committed itself to in 2020. The Labour Party itself has created a third climate budget, and for us this is a management tool. It's about taking the sector by sector and showing that one can cut off in a way like monars. We owe it to the next generation — a fairer and more climate-friendly Norway, where more people have the opportunity to work. With this, I take up the Workers' Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e339	Then the representative Hadia Tajik addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e346	I very much agree with Mr Tajik's point at the end, namely that we have to make sure that the values we can distribute, but it is also quite important to make sure that the values we include in taxes are used wisely and correctly. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party proposes to increase taxes by nearly 10 billion in total. kr. At the same time, they warn that they are opposed to the red tape reform, which in 2020 will save us 1.7 billion. kr. They are opposed to transferring tax collection to the tax rate, which in the long term will save us almost 400 million. kr a year in bureaucracy, and they are against competition on the railway, which will save us for approx. $800 million. kr, i.e. money that will have to be compensated. I assume, if the Workers' Party ever joins the government, that they won't increase the taxes by 10 billion. kr extra every year. This will mean that the increase in taxation has been used up only to reverse efficiency gains in the public sector. My question to the representative Tajik is: how much more will she have to increase taxes after she has prevented all these efficiency improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e355	The right can only relax completely, because the Workers' Party's tax arrangements are prudent, and also in this alternative budget, we make sure that those with incomes below DKK 750000 will pay less on average under the Workers' Party than under the Right. It's those who have a lot of money, high incomes and high wealth, who have to pay more. But when it comes to this critique of efficiencies, I just have to say that I do not take that kind of criticism from the Right. They have implemented the privatisation reform, which has cost this country a lot of money. Only privatisation and upgrading of the railway are now costing 1 billion. kr, the change in name from NSB to Vy shall be SEK 300 million. kr for taxpayers, they implement privatisation reforms in the healthcare system that lose our common healthcare for money. And then they make it look like ABE-cut is something that's pushed out of the situation, something that you're forced to do to make it more efficient. That's wrong. What one should do is lead a more sensible policy for our common well-being, and the Labour Party is going to spend the money on welfare near people rather than on privatisation, as Right has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e362	We've become used to the fact that the gap between the different parts of the opposition is significant. How to reconcile the Workers' Party, which wants 5 pst. increase of the CO 2 fee, with SV, MDG and Red, which wants 50 pst. increase, or the Workers' Party, which wants the petrol charge to remain at rest, with the MDG, which wants to increase it by DKK 5 per litre, will have any future negotiations resolved. What's more interesting is that the Workers' Party does not follow its own policies. As Asheim's representative also pointed out, they're against the ABE reform, but they spend all the money it gives. They are opposed to transferring the tax collection from the municipalities, but do not grant the funds it requires in its alternative. They have listened criticised fewer days with mail delivery, but they use the whole savings that fewer days with mail delivery give. The question is therefore: who has been a counterparty when the Workers' Party has negotiated its own policies in its own alternative state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e374	I would like to site Jan Tore Sanner, who created the Right's alternative budget in 2013. When he laid the alternative budget, he, working on this budget, wrote these wise words: ‘During these weeks you cannot change everything you would see differently in Norwegian policy, but you can show another course for Norway.’ I must say that was quite precise and poetically said by the representative Sanner, at that time. I totally agree with him in that very thing. In our alternative budget, we show other priorities for the country. We show that it is possible to meet the needs of ordinary people in a much better way, for example by: To cut the maximum price for kindergartens or double trade union deductions – that it is possible to pursue a policy that matters to the whole country, to industry all over the country. Then I must say that we in the Labour Party are responsible for our alternative budget. We also show that we are making responsible and sound budgets. If the government party has now intended to operate with daily black paint of the opposition's structure, it will show that it does not seem that they have plans other than to have power for power's sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e388	I found it interesting that the representative Tajik goes back to 2013 to show how a user uses different priorities in the alternative state budget and shows a direction. It is true, but if one is to take it seriously, then the Labour Party must do what the Labour Party says they are for. Not only does the Workers' Party not reverse the cut in the ABE reform, but they have also added an unspecified consultant's cut of 1.7 billion. kr. The money is also taken from one place. They haven't reversed the cut, but they've accelerated it. They're for a five-day post-return operation, but they use the money. They're opposed to taxing the government, but they use the money. There are good intentions behind, but my question to the representative Tajik will then be whether there are several things the Labour Party says they are for, but they are not going to be able to prioritize, because it only says about work for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e395	Many of the proposals to which the representative refers are those put forward by the Labour Party in this Chamber, so we have stood by and shown that it is possible to choose a different direction from that of the government. Then we've been put to the vote. The representative uses the option to show that the Workers' Party is implementing a cut in the use of consultants. The representative is quite right in that, and there is some difference in the policy we are pursuing, and what the government party is doing. They cut in the basic crew in the welfare services out there, while we cut in the consulting, and he has increased under this government, among other things. Because they have used the opportunity to carry out more privatisation reforms, they have been forced to purchase more consulting services. I am much more united with the former Right-State Council, Victor Norman, who says that the policy of this government for the public sector, the so-called ABE-cutta, is a cowardly strategy. It is a matter of simply not being able to do the necessary priorities. I'll be fine in the Working Party. That shows us in our alternative budget. We cut in consulting rather than in basic personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e404	However, there is no point in speaking when the representative Tajik says that they are able to show them the priorities, while in his alternative budget they have not been able to allow the funds needed to correct the ABE cut, but instead have accelerated it with the cut in the consulting services. I really want to ask the representative Tajik what she thinks they do, because the Labour Party supports the digitisation work that takes place in different state levels and in different state works. Many of them are driven by the fact that you also need to spend money on the services you want to create. A resource must be used to obtain that saving. One can't just say that one is for, and then afterwards spend money on something that one is for, and set it up against other priorities that one says one is for. Then it's not a threat, and it's a different thing than it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e412	I believe the representative has to read the budget for the Labour Party – both this and we have been presenting it for quite a number of years. We have consistently given more to well-being than this government has done and in which the Christian People's Party has participated. After all, the Christian People's Party has cut public sector cuts, cut basic staff in welfare services – support the government in that policy – while we have given 3 billion. SEK for hospitals every year. We've managed to give more to the municipalities and the county. In this budget, we propose 3 billion. kr more. We consistently demonstrate that priority is given to those services that are important to people and that are important for the quality of service provision. While the government, for example, is have completed a cut in the courts, which means that those who work there are actually concerned about the legal certainty of those who have to meet in court, the Labour Party, through all our alternative budgets, has ensured that the courts get more money. It is the criticism of the government that is desperate. The Labour Party budget is responsible and points out a clear direction for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e419	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e424	Norway is going well. We have low unemployment throughout the country, growth is good, and new jobs are created – 50,000 only in the last year, and four out of five in the private sector. Then it might have been appropriate – at least it would have been easy – to put on the political hat and say that there is a powerful policy that has contributed to this. Perhaps we too, as politicians, could have contributed. However, the reason Norway is doing well is that more and more people get up in the morning, wear uniforms, dresses or dresses and contribute to the large splinter layer AS Norway. It's these people who make it possible for us today to distribute hundreds of billions of dollars to all the good proposals in a rich and rusty state budget, compared to the budgets of very many other countries. Even though the opposition is as good as they can, trying to create a picture that everything was better before, it actually doesn't. The numbers show something else. When companies invest more now than they have done in the last ten years, it tells something about a belief in the future and that they believe in Norway. When more students are actually at school, and when fewer drop out of high school, it means that more people are going to participate in the labour market in the years to come, instead of switching to passive benefits. When we treat more people in health care and the queues go down, it means that they come back to value-creating work and help to bake the cake bigger. A huge sum of what we currently grant on the different frameworks comes from the oil and gas sector – not only through the contribution of the oil fund, but also through corporate taxes, land-interest taxes, employers' taxes, dividends and taxes to each employee employed either directly or indirectly in this sector. Yesterday, the news reported that the 23 companies paying petroleum taxes increased their contribution to the Treasury by 53 p.m. last year. The 23 companies paid a total of 147 billion. SEK in tax in 2018, an increase of 53 billion. kr from the year before, according to NTB. These 23 companies now account for 63 pst. of the total company tax in Norway. 332,000 companies contribute the remaining 37 pst. It tells us that of course we are totally dependent on the petroleum sector to keep the wheels running in Norway. It has not been said that it is the only thing we should bet on, or that it is not possible to get a green shift while at the same time betting on this sector – of course it is; it is almost a prerequisite. The context is clear: oil and gas companies are among the largest investors in and owners of renewable energy. The most paradoxical thing about the proposals that are on the table today is that it is the parties that are most critical to the petroleum sector, which are most happy to use the money that comes from there. Both the SV, the Red and the Environmental Party The Greens are happy to use all the billions of oil and gas that are giving us, while they want a controlled closure of the entire industry. What's the alternative to using these incomes the state gets every year, once they get a majority and get the industry down, we don't know about these parties. I'm sure you can take it back from the other tax input, but we'll get a little hint in the draft budget for next year. The taxes and charges will be increased enormously, and if you thought it was a lot now: just wait until you also remove 20-25 pst. of the revenue and must be recovered. Fortunately, we have those heads of distribution here today, and then let me move on to talk about some of the most important breakthroughs for the Progress Party in this state budget. Ever since we were founded 50 years ago, the fight against unnecessary taxes and taxes has been very central. That is why we have also prioritised cutting taxes and taxes in recent years – over 25 billion. kr since 2013. Although there are not as many tax cuts in total in the next year's budget as I would like to be, we continue to do something with one of the most unsocial of them all, namely the property tax. The property tax, which neither takes account of income, wealth nor debt burden, and thus affects it in a distorted way, shall be further reduced from 2021. From 1 January 2020, the maximum rate will be reduced from 7 to 5 per mille, and from 2020 to 2021 onwards, it will decrease to 4 per mille. That's good for most people. It is the Progress Party which is the party of the motorists. While the Senter party was sitting on their hands when they had the chance last time, we have actually done something about the car and car rental fees. Car-related charges are now 20 billion. kr lower than 2013. The annual budgets have adopted amendments to the car charges, which together make it possible to make up a total of 1.6 billion. kr. We are now using more on the road than we are taking into account car-related taxes, the re-registration fee has been reduced by more than 40 p.m., and the one-off fee for a new passenger car is now on average 55 000 kroner lower than in 2013. Gas prices have also fallen below this government. In August 2018 the selling price was 11 pst. lower than in 2012. For petrol, there is a real reduction of well over 1 kr per litre, while for diesel there is a reduction of about a quarter of a cent per litre. When we increase the CO 2 tax next year, which is a good climate policy and is met by an offensive business, the user charge is reduced accordingly, so that the pump price is not increased for Ola and Kari Nordmann. The green shift cannot be carried out without a certain population upturn. Nor is it Ola or Kari's private driving that will determine whether we are reaching our targets or not. Traffic is an annual winner in the budgets of this government. Since we took over, we've strengthened the transport sector by about 80 pst. I am particularly pleased that the bet on four-field motorways will continue until next year. It's the safest roads we have, while it makes people and goods come out faster. During the period we are in now, 2018–2021, it will be built about four times more four-field motorway than in the period 2010–2013. By 2020, it is planned to open more than 55 kilometres of such road. This year, a total of 102 kilometres of four-field highways have been opened. By comparison, in 1990, the year I was born, a total of 70 miles [73 km] of four - lane motorway in Norway. But luckily, traffic is not just a new highway, it's the most old road. The difference from the previous one is that now the path is being maintained. For the first time in ten years, the national highway maintenance was reduced in 2015. This will continue in 2020 as well. Another fundamental issue for the Progress Party is to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. Norway is largely a safe country. Nevertheless, we see some perilous trends in the crime scene. The extent of sexual abuse against children, especially online, has been explosive in recent years. These are issues that require enormous resources. In fact, the police use over 30 pst. of the total exploration capacity of this type of case, even if it is less than 3 pst. of the cases. The second perilous trend is the violence of the population and youth we see in particular in the capital. The fact that we have experienced that gangs have unprovoked has attacked individuals and smaller groups gives us great cause for concern. These cases require different measures and resources. One requires investigative capacity, the other requires more visible police. I am very pleased that next year we will reach the goal of two policemen per thousand inhabitants. Next year, 170 newly-trained police students will be employed in addition to what replaces natural departure in the building. At the same time, we grant money for a solid investigation promise so that more criminals can also be taken online. In the budget unit at Stortinget, we have found room for further efforts in the field of justice, both to give the police a device promise and to establish more youth detention centres. In addition, we ensure that the employment man's boat at Svalbard gets sail all year round. In conclusion, I would just like to make a small visit to the Workers' Party's remark in the budgetary position that deals with the budgetary unity here in the Stortinget. That's where they say that they ‘does it seem strange that a majority government needs to negotiate in the Storting between the same parties in government’. Unless otherwise stated, this is at least consistent – both in position and in opposition, the Labour Party believes that the Stortinget should be a dispatch office where everything should be determined in advance. There may well be something to think about with potential cooperation parties, and not least for future red-green representatives on the Storting under an Labour Party regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e471	In his statement, but especially in the evening post just after the budget was presented, the representative Bjørnstad took on a tight and worried mine on behalf of what is the heart of the Progress Party. He's worried that the room for action in the state budget will be so tight that there will be no room for more tax cuts to the richest, so instead he'll warn him to cut off social benefits and well-being to afford it anyway. The lynch scheme launches Bjørnstad as an obvious candidate. So it may seem that the unsocial cuts in this budget are just a taste of what ordinary people are waiting for with continued party rule. Can the representative Bjørnstad tell Norwegian workers when they can expect to be cut in sick pay, how much is cut, and what other welfare arrangements will be in place if he continues to decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e476	The debate in the evening post is an important debate, and it is about how we are going to manage to create greater space within the state budget in order to prioritise the things we want. When we make changes, whether it's social security for glasses or dental regulation, it's all about going through the different instruments and the use of money that the government has, to see if it actually makes sense. Now, what we're seeing about the kind of cut we've done for next year is that it doesn't make sense. When the social benefits of glasses are more than tripled in ten years, it shows a huge increase in expenditure. You could say the same thing about dental regulation. When 40 p.m. Young people in Norway receive dental regulation, while there is a much lower proportion in our neighbouring countries, this shows that we need to spend money better in the years to come than we have done up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e481	Our task as elected representatives in the Grand Duchy is to make the everyday life of people in Norway a little bit better. This is to make the everyday life of businesses in Norway a little easier. The new legislation on benefits in kind contributes to the very opposite. You take away from ordinary workers the benefits they have had for a long time. Making everyday life more difficult for Norwegian businesses. Accounts Norway writes to the Finance Committee that they would strongly encourage a review of the rules and, at the latest, yesterday sent representatives of both employers and employees a letter asking for the rules on staff discounts to be put in the drawer. Bus drivers, cleaners on trains and shop workers do not have the great privileges. There are hard-working workers who experience pressure on pay and working conditions. Why are they still going to be taxed and taxed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e488	The daily lives of both individuals and enterprises in Norway have improved over the past six to seven years. The biggest challenge for companies in Norway is whether the Centre Party would regain power. The drastic increase in the taxes on wealth, the increase in the tax on dividends payable in order to pay taxes on wealth, shows that the structure of the Centre Party is not at all a good thing for neither businesses nor the majority of people in Norway. So for discounts and benefits: a broad majority on the Stortinget have joined the government's proposals, which have been adjusted along the way. So you've taken the input from the industry, and you've adjusted it along the way. As the representative of Asheim also said, this is about the rights of workers to be protected, about the social benefits actually paid, among other things. pension, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e495	The letter I referred to from Accounting Norway was sent to the Financial Committee after the presentation of the year’s budget. The letter I referred to from the NHO Transport, the Professional Transport Association and the Joint Undertaking was sent yesterday. Everyone strongly warns against the content of the new rules on benefits in kind and what is on staff discounts. The fees to which the representative Bjørnstad and the Progress Party have contributed have affected both ordinary people and business life in Norway. What is now actually going on staff discounts helps ordinary workers in the practical professions, who have a few benefits in their everyday lives, lose them. Why is it right in the eyes of the Progress Party that ordinary workers, such as bus drivers and train drivers, should lose their acquired rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e500	In total, this vast majority and this government have given ordinary people and businesses tax reliefs of over 25 billion. kr since 2013. It is in stark contrast to the Central Party's alternative state budgets, which show both strong tax increases and some tax increases – even if you like to say you are against it. When it comes to discounts and benefits, it has also been a desire of employees’ organisations to ensure that what they get from the employer is to give social benefits and social rights in the future. If you get discounts instead of wages, it doesn't give you service in the future. We believe it is an important principle that everything you receive from an employer should provide that kind of social benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e507	A minimum requirement for a budget is that fundamental human rights are respected for the population, and that, of course, it must be budgeted for before all other new measures. This principle has not been respected in the budget for Norwegian prisons in recent years – and also now. Budgeting in recent years — and now, too — has led to fewer employees, more lock-in and, in fact, more illegal isolation of Norwegian prisoners. The Ombudsman takes this very seriously and says that one in four prisoners in Norwegian prisons are exposed to isolation and that there is a significant risk of a breach of the ban on torture and inhuman treatment. My question to the Progress Party is: why does the Progress Party not want to be in a budgeting process that ensures that human rights are basically respected in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e513	The whole justice sector has been strengthened in the last six years. From this government, there has been a strong commitment to both justice, the prison system and the police – the entire justice area. It is quite right that there may have been fewer people in prison in criminal custody, but it is because there are fewer people in prison. There can be no problem that the settlement queues are falling and that there is fewer in prison. I become a little uncertain about SV's motivation when you worry that there are fewer people in prison. That's when I think they've been bombed. Of course, we are following developments in criminal justice from year to year and are also going to strengthen it in the years to come. I'm sure we'll find room to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e520	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e525	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Grand President, the Stortinget and parts of the government on the fact that tomorrow is 25 years since Norway said no to the European Union. It was an important historical event that has given the Norwegian big business and the Norwegian people great freedom of action in a number of political areas and when we have a financial debate, not least because we have our own monetary policy, and that we have the crown. Over the past five years, we've learned how important it is to have your own currency. When the oil price fell as strongly as it did in 2014-2015, one of the most important tools we had as a country was that we could control our own monetary policy. It subdued the challenges it posed for our industry and our business. I hope Prime Minister Erna Solberg, who has been one of the biggest champions of Norwegian policy for the euro, is happy to see how the crown has helped the Norwegian economy in the last five years. Having one's own currency policy is wise. It was a good decision the Norwegian people made in 1994, so we're just saying a thousand heartfelt thanks for it. Then I will go on to Prime Minister Erna Solberg, because in 2013 Erna Solberg was very active in the election campaign. I remember very well, I was the Council of State myself. She criticized the government for our excessive use of oil. If the Right got the power, the oil money usage would fall, and we would convert the Norwegian economy, we would become less oil dependent. She said at the latest just before the election that she would do a number of things to make Norway less oil dependent. Then we see over the last six years that Solberg has run: there have been many celebrations about the transformation of the economy, no later than October 10th, Finance Minister Siv Jensen and Prime Minister wrote a chronicle in the Evening Post where it said that they were doing well with the green shift in the Norwegian economy. And they wrote again that we had to get an economy that was less oil dependent. What are the facts after six years with Prime Minister Erna Solberg and with a finance minister from the Progress Party? Have we become less oil dependent, or more? Have we really come to a new industry, have we had new green value creation, or have the opposite happened? In spite of all the words and celebrations, Norway has never been more oil dependent than today – we have never been more oil dependent than today. The trade balance for mainland Norway has deteriorated dramatically over the six years with Erna Solberg. The deficit in 2013 – the trade balance for mainland Norway – was minus 160 billion. kr. This year, the deficit is expected to be minus 275 billion. kr. I see the Prime Minister shaking his head, and I understand that, because the number is quite sympathetic. So there's been a trade deterioration of 115 billion. $6 with Prime Minister Erna Solberg. If it continues as it is now, the trade deficit for mainland Norway will double during Erna Solberg's time as Prime Minister in Norway. We can expect a trade deficit for mainland Norway of minus 300-400 billion. kr – very far from the speeches by the Prime Minister and the Government. However, Prime Minister Erna Solberg continues to boast of the transformation of the Norwegian economy in both speeches and documents – she is so proud of the transition. It's as much a rewriting of reality as when the government called the centralisation of the Norwegian police of near-police reform – it's just a mistake. The Norwegian economy has not been converted. Oil dependence has never been greater, and it has been after a period of historically low crown prices. The government must stop celebrating the conversion of the Norwegian economy and begin to see the realities. Industrial investment has now risen slightly in 2019. When we see which industries have invested in the last few years, the one that has invested most is the Norwegian food industry. The government has now stepped up its efforts against the Norwegian food industry with the charging policy. Last night, we saw figures from Coca-Cola Norway, that they've begun to cancel people because the economy was too bad. The estimates from the SSB are that investment in industry will fall in 2020 – again. A new course is needed – an active industrial policy, an active industrial policy in which we are to build the country and actively use the policy to create new green jobs. What we must never forget when we talk about government budgets and budget lines – all the technical debates – is that politics is always about people, yours and my everyday life and how we can make life better for people. I'm going to use one day from the election campaign as an example. When I get up at home and look out the window, the first thing I see is Ilseng prison -- that's the first thing I see, and I'm glad I'm not in, but a free man. The second thing I see is Breidablick's primary school. Yesterday, I was able to read in my locality: The re-education of the Breidablick children's school is stopped because of poorer local economy. There won't be any refurbishment of that school. This kind of news is now being seen in Norwegian newspapers all over the place. That's why the Center Party is adding 2.5 billion. More to the municipalities, because we believe it is important to have money for school, nursing homes and basic services near where people live. That day I had to take taxis in a hectic campaign. When the taxi driver came, what was he busy about? Well, it was that the VAT on his travels had increased by 50 pst., from 8 pst. to 12 pst. – a massive increase in VAT. In addition, he was concerned that when he was going to buy a new car, there were some of the cars in the taxi centre that had received a fee increase of more than 100 pst. because of the removal of the exemption from the weight component. In our alternative budget, we reduce VAT on public transport and taxis from 12 pst. to 10 pst., and we give a discount for anyone who is going to buy new cars in that industry. I'll get to the train. Who do you meet there? The commuters — the long commuters — who, on average, by long commutes from my area have received NOK 5000 to NOK 6000 more in tax because of petty incarceration in commuter deductions. That's completely wrong policy. Then you meet the conductor, who is not sure if he can have a family card anymore because the government believes it's too great that those who work in transport should be able to drive buses and trains in their spare time, and that the family can do it. That is why we have put in money for both better commuting deductions and that you can keep that kind of personal discounts. When you get to the Gardermo and you're on your way into the Ontøe plane: what are those people concerned about? Yes, that the fees only for Onderøe have increased by approx. 1 billion. kr with the government of the day. This means that Onkøe is now starting to run with deficits, they are cutting routes, and there are getting worse offers. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are removing the fee on flights below 20 tonnes. We need a short-distance network in our long-distance country, so we're adding more money to the Center Party for so-called FOT routes to bring down the ticket prices on the short-distance network around Norway. When I land in Lake Sandness, I go to Søvik School. What meets me there? Well, a principal who's disappointed that you're going to drop Nesna and your teacher's education, because 90 pst of his teachers are trained at Nesna. And as I move on to the Sandness Lake Centre, I meet a rapporteur who is puzzled that nurse training is being abandoned, because they need nurses in the area – misguided policies. It's a wrong policy, so we've put in our alternative budget money to bet more on higher education, more on university, more on having those kind of institutions around the country. What is the reality when you travel around, also that day, for people, for example. In Alstahaug municipality, police resources have been lost. There have been fewer policemen, even if you stand here and boast. Then I sometimes wonder if the government parties travel around and meet people and hear what reality actually is. That's why we've invested 520 million in our alternative budget. More to the police to just strengthen police and preparedness also in smaller places around the country. It's absolutely vital and just as important as spending more money on hospitals, ambulances and medical services. Because it's just as dangerous if people get a heart attack or have problems in a little place, like in a big place. We have to bet on the whole country. That same day I was in the Lake of Lake Messa and in Rana. What are they worried about there? One is, of course, that you have a change in the tax on power so that that kind of municipality can lose a lot of millions of dollars. But the government is running it through and tightening in. When you're in Northern Ireland, there's always going to be a discussion about the county economy, not least now when Nordic states are going to lose 700 inhabitants in three months, as they do now. But yet the government is making changes in the income system of the states that make Nordland as a county lose almost half a billion dollars, while in the Center Party we are spending money on the states that only Nordland had got 240 million. next year to operate ferries and secondary schools and basic services. We have a government today that does not believe in all of Norway, which has a strong centralisation belief, which pursues a charging policy that affects many parts of Norway, and which increases the differences between people. Norway needs a new policy course, where we are actively using the policy to develop Norway from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south, from west to east. Then we have to use both tax and tax policies, the basic services, and we have to put new Norwegian green industry in place. Today’s government has failed in that transition, the situation has gotten worse — Norway is centralized and the differences between people are increasing. I'll bring that up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e559	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e566	In the opposition, when we are going to create our own alternative budget for the government, there are a lot of holes to fill, and the Central Party is cutting its draft budget deep into the EEA funds to fill some of these holes, approximately. half is removed with a pen swab. This is the money we have agreed on with 15 countries, which cannot be removed overnight. So then there's only two alternative interpretations of this. One is that Norway runs out of commitments and reports out of the EEA from 1 January – I see the representative smiling, but it is completely unthinkable to do so. The second is that the Center Party is budgeting with so-called monopoly money, that is, money that they don't know we have, and thus trickling their voters. Can the representative Vedum help us clarify which of the options we are going to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e571	I am not sure if Svein Roald Hansen accepted my congratulations with great joy and joy, as former leader of the European movement and certainly one of those who believe it is a happiness for Norway to introduce the euro. I also hope that Svein Roald Hansen looks at the reality of the Norwegian economy and sees how good it is that we have had a national freedom of action, that we have had a freedom of action in energy policy, that we have had a freedom of action in terms of our own monetary policy, and that we see what major challenges we have in the Norwegian labour market with too uncontrolled labour immigration. In the case of EEA funds, the government itself cut 500 million. Last year's revised national budget, because they saw that many of the projects were not good enough, they saw that there was a bad use of public funds. We have challenged the government in the budgetary procedure now and asked: is there now so many quality assurance projects? Is it certain that the money will be spent well enough? When you see the answer, you see that it's not the government. In our alternative budget we are approx. 300-400 million. kr over what was the red-green level of EEA funds, if I do not remember faults, and we think it is high enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e578	This year's budgeting process shows a growing gap on the red-green side. The only common denominator is actually massive tax increases for most people and businesses, up to 40 billion. kr annually. SV increases fuel taxes by approx. 2 billion. kr, but the center part will reduce them by almost 1 billion. kr. SV will cut massively in the road construction in the districts – a red cloth not only for Right-Choosers, but also for Senterpart-Choosers around Norway, I believe – but the Centre Party will cut for roads and public transport in the big cities. A red-green government alternative appears more and more less credible, I would say, just like an impossible spagate. Or can the representative Vedum explain to us how he thinks that he should be able to make an impact on his tax cuts, when he has to borrow from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party or the Red Party in order to have a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e585	Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has sent a reply to Stortinget, where she has gone through all the tax applications to today's government. And according to the answer of Minister of Finance Siv Jensen of the Progress Party, it's 6.3 billion. kr which has been the fees increases with the current government. With regard to what the Right Representative here is talking about, the fuel taxes, party leader Erna Solberg stood three years ago and boasted that she and Siv Jensen had increased the fees more in one year than in eight red-green years. What the Central Party wants with regard to the level of fees, and the level of fees we have for fuel in our alternative budget, is to come back to the red-green level. So we got at a much lower fee level with the Workers' Party and SV than the Progress Party and the Right have managed to get together, because it was their own proposal to increase the fees more in one year than in eight red-green years, and it's a quote from Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e590	Yeah, it's about people and making life better for people. But in its alternative state budget, the Central Party has proposed to rage the care of the elderly in four municipalities and to distribute all that money to the other municipalities. That means that in the municipality of Stjørdal in Trøndelag, where Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum's party colleague is rapporteur, the Senterpartiet wants to destroy the care of the elderly and remove 97 pst. of the money spent on care for the elderly in that municipality, in its alternative budget proposal. So that means that it's approx. 1500 people receiving home help and care services in the municipality of Stjørdal will receive less than 3 pst. of the money, to run the same care for the elderly. When you're promoting an alternative budget where you're going to spend 2.5 billion dollars later. NOK to the municipalities, but actually attracts 1 billion. kr from four municipalities, the representative must explain to me how Vigdenes, who is rapporteur in Stjørdal, will be able to operate the municipality at the base of 3 pst. of what it operates for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e595	This is where the representative Hoksrud really messed up with the calculator. Once, the representative Hoksrud called me from P4's pay phone and said he had trouble counting, so he wondered if I could help him with the calculator in the finance committee's meeting room. Then I realized that it was just a joke, because I gradually realized that this was not serious, but today Hoksrud has messed up something enormous, because of course, when you look at our municipal structure, you don't get Stjørdal municipality 3 pst. They get a massive, good transfer of money from us, because they're going into the frame. I have visited the municipality of Stjørdal, I have visited the municipality of Stjørdal. There's a lot of good people there. It is impressive what our good rapporteur, Ivar Vigdenes, has done with his capable people. Stjørdal has been one of our exhibition municipalities, which the Center Party has most promised, because it has been so capable, to both develop the Stjørdal Centre and to develop all parts of the municipality. With our approach, Stjørdal will come out well, have a good economy and be able to invest in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e600	The most widely used term and the most used sentence from Vedum are centralization and services near people. Then it is incomprehensible that the Centre Party itself and Vedum will trample the districts, centralize, by cutting business across Norway, in urban and rural areas — or throughout Norway, in urban and rural areas. He wants to remove us from the EEA Agreement completely. He is concerned about the export in Norway when 75 pst. the export actually goes to the EEA country, corresponding to 300 billion. kr. He's worried about the workplaces. This year there have been 40,000 new private jobs across the country, and a quarter of them work in business, actually in export industries. It is incomprehensible that the Centre Party will affect Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs throughout the country, in urban and rural areas, and the question is: Why will the representative, Mr. Slagsvold Vedum, drive Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs across the country? And why is the Central Party going to implement the centralisation policy of the times?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e611	It's a pleasure that Abid Q. Raja has come to realize that the Center Party wants to develop the whole country. There has been a success story in Norway. It is the problem of today’s government that it has pursued a policy where large parts of Norway face major challenges. Unfortunately, we got a statistics from the SSB this week saying that since they started to perform quarterly statistics, no counties have experienced greater delocalization than in the last three months, as Nordland has experienced that 702 people have moved. There are dramatic numbers that I hope the government starts to take seriously and not just blow away. With regard to our view of giving more and more power to the EU, the big debate over the last few years has been to give more control over Norwegian energy policy to the EU. We are strongly opposed to that. We believe that some of the things that have been the success story, from the time the Left and the Center were one party around 1905, are that we have just guaranteed national ownership and national control over energy policy. But the Left has forgotten its historical roots and is not so concerned about it today. The center part is still the center part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e620	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e625	It's good to be back. I have benefited from our welfare state, and I am happy that I now get to come back here and work for something bigger than me – to give back. For SV, there's no doubt about why we're here, what's most important to us. We know that the choices we make today determine the future of the generations that come after us. My own generation has grown up in a time of crisis – the climate crisis and the inequality crisis. But we also live in a time of commitment and hope. We've seen a new youth uprising. In the spring there were 40,000 children and young people standing outside the Storting and around the country, and they didn't ask for any more good words and intentions, they asked for climate action. We've seen it with the AAP action, the thousands of people fighting for security and against the tightening up that the government has done in the redundancy money. We've seen it with the Lionmothers, who have managed to fight the government's cuts in care to take care of their sick kids, and we see it with the Heirs campaign for better manning and increased resources for child protection. That's how I could still have. That's the commitment we should listen to when we deal with next year's budget, not the commitment to the country's richest, who want lower taxes, and not the commitment to the oil companies, who are opposed to the absolutely necessary conversion of Norway. In ten years, we're going to halve our greenhouse gas emissions. We're going to convert the oil nation of Norway into a climate nation. Our industry has to become a zero-emission industry, the car fleet has to go on clean power and hydrogen, we have to use electric aircraft, and the trains have to go faster and faster. In the SV's alternative budget, we are starting work on a new green deal, a plan to convert Norway into a zero-emission society while reducing the differences in society. If we are to succeed in this transformation, the whole of Norway's economy and business needs to be geared towards solving that problem. The state must take the lead in an active policy and take the risks of creating new markets for a green business. There is a need for new, large-scale budgetary efforts, while existing instruments need to be shifted from polluting to renewable investments and pollution needs to be more expensive. Then every budget must be a climate budget. This is where the government fails, because it is completely impossible to see in this budget – and in the previous budgets – that they are taking the climate crisis seriously. We have seen cuts in renewable energy in developing countries, car charges that compensate for each other, a tax on biofuels and a lack of new policies and visions for the conversion of Norway. SV shows us another way in our budget. We'll give a total of 11.4 billion. kr more to climate, environment and green conversion in 2020, to convert the oil nation of Norway is difficult, but it is also fully feasible. We have good assumptions to make it. We have great natural resources and good economics, a rich ocean, clean energy and highly skilled workers, so we're showing the start of this transition in our alternative budget. Today, the oil industry is swallowing capital, competence and the attention of politicians. As we strengthen other and completely new industries, we must also limit the oil. That is why SV is proposing to change the oil tax agenda, and we are cutting off the publicly funded research on oil and gas. Instead, we propose, among other things: an increase of 1.5 billion. kr to Enova, funds to go to programmes in the industry for electrification, energy efficiency improvement, the development of new technologies and the deployment of technology. We want to strengthen the environmental technology system by 700 million. kr to convert the industry and bring down the greenhouse gas emissions, and we increase the transfers to Nysnø by 1.1 billion. to take it on the road towards a state green investment bank. SV will provide Norwegian citizens with easier access to grants to install solar power or energy-efficient housing. People have to take part in and take advantage of the climate change. In our time, the government's big message of inequality came, and it clearly showed that differences in power and wealth have increased sharply in recent decades. The richest will leave, while the rest will be hanging after. Since 2013, they have 10 pst. richest households received higher income, while the 20 pst. at least reduced during the same period. In 2018, we recorded the number of children growing up in families with persistent low income and record in the number of billionaires in Norway. Although all the parties here proclaim that they want little differences, the real will is to actually take action to reduce the differences small among the government parties. On the contrary – this year we are dealing with a government budget while rolling up a serious matter. The Nav scandal is shocking. There are several thousand people who have been hit, people on sick pay, redundancy payments and care allowances. I can't help but see this in context, because it is worth noting the endless understanding of Røe Isaksen's board of directors of state-owned companies wanting increased fees, or the representative Asheim, who eagerly moves out to defend the country's sovereign richest, in fear that they would pay little more to the community in which they have become rich. The government has certainly delivered to the richest. In the period 2013–2017, the thousands of people with the highest wealth received over 800,000 kroner in tax cuts from this government. In the period 2017–2019, the same group received a new NOK 284 000 in tax cuts. In total, this is over 1 million. kr in tax cuts for the thousand richest people in the country – 1 million. kr. They've got a total of 1 billion. kr on sharing. It's rust. But the attitude toward the sick or those who are poor is not so bright. I think there's a line here from the Nav scandal to this budget. It's such a fear that people on social security, people who have become sick, who are poor, will get something they don't have a claim, or a few more dollars than they really need. This is the reason for the cut in the support for glasses for children, unnecessary expensive glasses, we hear, or for dental regulation. In previous budgets, there has been the child supplement to disability and physiotherapy for fire damage, to mention something. But the richest cast out the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. We in SV show another way in our alternative budget, a way for small differences, an enlarged welfare state and a belief in people most. We reverse the tightening of the system of child goggles and dental regulation. Instead, we want a dental reform. We're increasing the funding for Nav instead of the government's constant cheese needs. When over 100,000 young people grow up in poor families, it's time for a big boost, so we're increasing child welfare. And we're going to replace today's one-time benefit with a continuous minimum performance for parental pensioners, because parental pensioners for everyone have a good distribution profile. We all live our lives in a municipality. Here the children are to grow up, the inhabitants become old, the workplace and everyday life function, and then the local economy has to make room for it. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are proposing more teachers, more staff in care and care, stepping up the drug field and improving the provision of childcare and school health services. In addition, municipalities and county councils must be able to cut greenhouse gas emissions and expand public transport. We propose to strengthen the municipalities and counties with over 5 billion. kr. The State budget is about priorities. It's about what we politicians think is most important, why we go to work every day. When this government cuts in favor of glasses for children or for dental regulation or child abuse, the government's mantra is that we can't afford everything, we have to give priority. It's typical SV to be able to afford everything, we'll probably hear in line exchange here. But when we in SV do not prioritise billions in tax cuts to them with the most, there are other tones from the government parties. Then it is no longer necessary to prioritize. It seems that taxes to those with the most are higher than any government party priorities. Those of us who are unlucky and get sick and need the arrangements that we all pay in taxes to finance, risk getting stuck in a bureaucratic spider network in Nav, but of course the richest are going to get economic space without any demands. We in SV know what's most important, who we prioritize. There's little difference, most people, it's the climate crisis and a new green deal that gets everyone involved in the big job of converting Norway. Those are the many and not the few. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e656	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e663	First, I would like to welcome the representative back to Stortinget. Despite the fact that she is presenting a budget proposal that increases taxes and taxes by 22.8 billion. kr, there is a lot of SV no room left. An area subject to review in the SV's budget is the Defence. With the greetings of our women and men fighting abroad for peace and security on our behalf, SV will cut the appropriations for international operations of 460 million. kr. One thing is that SV's view is that Norway should not participate in operations in the Middle East, but that they believe that we should also cut our support and help to our Baltic neighbours in order to assert sovereignty in the air and on the ground, I believe is serious. It is unsolvable and the expression of a neighbourhood Norway should not be familiar with. Then the question is, what would the representative say to our good friends in Lithuania, who, with the SV budget, will stand without the Norwegian contribution of 120 soldiers, which the Armor Battalion has stationed there?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e672	I think there is a broad consensus among the NATO countries that job number one is to be able to have a powerful defense yourself. We do not cut into defence, we re-prioritise against government priorities, we want to strengthen the Army and the other defence branches here in Norway. We want an army that can defend Norway, and we want a marine defence that can defend Norway and that can protect our interests northward. That's not the government's priority. When the government wants to increase our efforts internationally, it has just helped to build up our own defence capabilities here in the country. If we rather strengthen our own defence capabilities, we are also involved in detachment and in being less dependent on other countries, especially the United States, which are increasingly placed on Norwegian soil, and which contribute to increasing tension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e677	The representative from SV is very much talking about taking away from the rich and giving to ordinary people, but increasing fuel taxes and other things is also having consequences for ordinary people. This with taxes on wealth, I think, is interesting, for the representative later on, as if this were for the rich. I was in the West, in Sogn and Fjordane, and I visited a company that is involved in the production of windows. They have some profits every year and have quite large values in their building mass, but they cling tight and want to contribute to the community and have employees in work. The type of tax increases proposed by SV will erase out of this type of enterprise around the country, because they don't have the economy to handle it. How does SV think this can be good district policy or good policies for creating and maintaining jobs? So this is a special tax that only Norwegian business owners have to pay, not non-residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e682	Every year, the same criticism comes from the Progress Party, and every year SV – the same is true this year: we give people more tax cuts than this government does. We give the most priority to people, it is the Advance Party that prioritises the billionaires. It's the Progress Party that has given 1 billion. kr to the 1 000 richest people in Norway in tax cuts. There are insanely large sums, which could have been spent on welfare, which could have been used in the community, or which could have been used on tax cuts for most people. The numbers' speech is really pretty clear. I understand that the Progress Party needs to push people in front of it, but it's in our budget that most people are left with bigger tax cuts and, in addition, more to well-being. I believe it is right that we have property taxes and that there are no zero taxpayers in Norway. With the policies of the Progress Party, Kjell Inge Smoking will pay zero dollars in taxes, that's not fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e687	In its draft budget, SV proposes a cut of a total of 326 million without further justification. kr to Christian private colleges. A seemingly arbitrary cut is made, contrary to adopted guidelines on public aid to private universities, and also contrary to the draft budgets supported by SV when the party was in government. My question is: is it the non-profit private colleges that SV wants to live because they want the public to be exclusive in this area, or is there resistance to colleges for life-seeking purposes, where the Christian value base is the starting point for higher education, which is the justification for SV's cut-off proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e694	I can imagine that there has been a discussion about priorities. I have not been in that part of the budgetary procedure, so I dare not respond specifically to what is the reason for it. I think I have to be allowed to conference with our educational fraction about that and come back to the representative with a supplementary answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e700	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e705	The government's budget is both green, red and modern. Because climate change is the biggest and most important challenge, the Left has been given a clear and large print in the budget. The left shoulder was shoulder to shoulder with the tens of thousands of young people who had the climate strike in ours, and so are we. At the same time, we provide clear political impetus in the state budget. To achieve climate targets, we need to make pollution more expensive, while making it cheaper and easier to choose climate friendly. That is why I am proud that the Left has ensured that the CO 2 tax continues to increase, while at the same time we are spending a historic amount of money on public transport in cities. That means the state is now going to take 66 pst. of the bill by extension of, inter alia: The city railway in Bergen, the Fornebubanen in Bærum and Oslo and the Metrobus in Stavanger, while now electrifying the Trønderbanen. The government has also increased the rail budget by nearly 90 pst. since we took over power in 2013, and the Left is pleased with the great breakthroughs we've got on the railway. Next year, the rail budget will increase by 1.1 billion. kr. The left has also ensured that the electric car success continues. Electric car policy is one of Norway’s biggest climate successes, which many in the world come to see and learn from. In September, more than half of the new cars sold were electric cars, and there are no other countries in the world that are close to such a successful electrification of the car park. But we're not on target. You think it's just electric cars running around in the country, but it's not like that, it's still a lot to do. At the same time, there has never been cleaner air in Norwegian cities, precisely because of the predictability of this government's policy. In order to keep progress in carbon capture and storage, next year 628 million will be used. kr. The Left is very pleased, and the government warns that the investment decision can be made at the next state budgets. At the same time, we maintain the aid rate. It is important to safeguard our sense of solidarity, to help with human rights in the global world and to reduce the scope of human persecution. When we increase assistance by 1.4 billion. kr, we also strengthen climate-related assistance in the areas of sea, forest and global emissions. Climate-related assistance is now close to 7 billion. kr. In total, this is a necessary ceiling for climate and environment. That means it's going to be more expensive to pollute, and we're going to maintain the electric car benefits, we're going on battery ferries, we're going to strengthen the railway, we're going to keep progress on CCS, and we're going to take global environmental responsibility. The left is, and is going to continue to be, the guarantor that climate is being prioritised. As a centre party with a social liberal ideology, we work to ensure that the budget takes care of the weakest in society. Giving the most to those who need it the most is important for the left. It will be spent next year on 1 billion. the need for action on poverty in this country. Now, for example, More than 14,000 children from poorly advised families get cheaper SFOs, and nearly 22,000 families with children receive increased housing support. It will help to contribute to greater inclusion and targeted help to those families that need it the most. I am also proud that the Left has always been a driver for and over ensuring the continuation of receiving a record high number of quota refugees, 3000 also in 2020 – a number that places Norway at the top of the world about accepting quota refugees. We in the Left are very proud of the pace shift we are now making in the drugs policy. The government will now launch a heroin-assisted treatment pilot project for those who need it the most, both in Oslo and in Bergen. There is a lot of money to be spent, and not least the escalating plan for the 2016-2020 drug use field is met of 2.4 billion. kr. This would not have happened if the Left had not been in government, and at least not in the power position we have had since 2013. The left is also very pleased with the large-scale effort to further train teachers – 6,000 in 2020. This is something we did early in the morning, and since 2014, 34 000 teachers have received further training. Now we also provide a stepping-up plan for 11 months of study support, and a number of new digitisation measures. At the same time, we are keeping a tight and responsible economic line. I am proud of the great achievements the Left has received in this budget, which makes Norway greener, lighter and more modern. The budget has a clear social-liberal image and shows why the Left is part of the government, and how the Left is involved in making this government better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e733	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e738	Yesterday, the National Audit Office’s report on manning challenges in health businesses was presented. Nursing, specialist nurses and midwives are particularly affected. The representative Raja, like me, represents Akershus. At Ahus state 65 pst. by midwives that they consider to quit the job. Many midwives have already quit. They're pointing at a lot of work pressure and blasted capacity. Why does this government do nothing to ease the pressure of labour for midwives at the country's maternity wards? Before the representative Raja answers and refers to the budget, the increase in the hospital budget by the government parties is eaten up by demographic changes with elderly and sicker patients. The question is why the government parties don't do anything to improve the situation of their midwives and the country's food departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e743	I am not familiar with the description of reality that the representative is trying to provoke. In fact, the health budget has been fully strengthened since 2013. For example, waiting time is reduced, hospital investment is at a higher level than in the past, and package steps have been taken in the fields of cancer, alcohol and mental health. The Labour Party made a promise in 2013 that there would be one million more treatments in 2017 than in 2012. This number struck the government very early. I am not familiar with the fact that we do not strengthen the efforts of the midwives. So let's do that. We also strengthen the budget in terms of lucky day care facilities – 2 000 more, with a total commitment framework of 3.6 billion. kr. Furthermore, it is important to provide good and healthy food for the elderly living in nursing homes. In general, I believe that we are involved in moving health policy in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e748	I didn't ask about the elderly in a nursing home. I asked about maternity wards. There are fairly different areas I ask questions about here. The representative says that he does not recognize in the description from Akershus, our own county, where 65 pst. the midwives report that they consider to stop working because of the labour pressure, due to the bursting of capacity, because they are unable to give birthing women a good birth experience. I want the representative Raja to answer that: why does the government do nothing to improve the situation of the country's food departments, and in particular the major food departments, where the pressure is reported to be the greatest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e753	Once again, I don't recognize myself in that description of reality. We've actually increased the health budgets considerably. For example, in the State budget for 2020: Hospital budgets increase by 1.58 billion. kr. This will just give room for more patient treatment with about 1.5 pst. At the same time, however, we need to take it seriously if the hospital staff feel that they have a lot of work pressure. Of course, the government will continue to work specifically, which they are already doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e758	Left says yes to the loan application for a new hospital in Gaustad and to shut down Ullevål Hospital – a hospital investment that is the largest in Sjukehus-Noreg in the world, with enormous professional and economic risks and a proposal that none of the trade unions would like. On Oslo Left's websites, it says that Oslo Left's not giving up the fight for Ullevål Hospital. Furthermore, it says: ‘For the Left, the most important thing is that Oslo’s population receives the best possible hospital offer. We cannot see that the health company or Oslo University Hospital has developed a good enough factual basis to defend a decision to spend tens of billions in a new hospital in Gaustad." My question is why Left on Stortinget now fails its own hospital policy, has given up the fight for Ullevål Hospital and accepts that Ullevål Hospital will be closed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e770	The left in Oslo and also many of the representatives of the Left have had a very clear view of how to maintain the skills jobs at Ullevål. There, in particular, Carl-Erik Grimstad, who sits on the Health Committee for us, has targeted this with a clear and clear voice. At the same time, when you sit in government, there are compromises, and here the government has given a start-up grant for the purpose that the representative points out. Now this will be a work that has to be done in Oslo, with regulation etc. I note that forces in Oslo Left and others in the Left have a different view of that issue than the government has presented in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e775	I would like to begin by congratulating the Left on their new and clear attitude to the Free E39, which we have been able to do today. Then SV has got another piece on the team, and then we get to fight a little in each of our blocks. But then to a field where the left does not have completely clean flour in the bag or completely pure oil on the tank, and then I aim for the palm oil. Why will the Left not ensure – or fight for – that the marketing of palm oil fuels is prohibited within the scope of the marketing requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e782	We fight for that, and that's one of the concerns we share with the Rain Forest Fund. But here there are some rules that are going to come into force by the EU doing this, and then there is a proposal in the budget that deals with biofuels. We'll get back to that when it's to be released in the committee. At the same time, we are very concerned that we are going to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions here at home. It is also important to take care of the rainforest and prevent cutting down more rainforest than is necessary. In particular, it is of particular concern that the resultant cut-off effect of increasing the turnover requirement for, for example: biofuels, and in particular in the case of non-advanced biofuels. The EU is working on this. This is coming back to the EU next year. The government will follow closely, and we will also address it when we are to deliver this on the Financial Committee on 3 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e790	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e795	In several of the previous financial debates, representatives from various political parties have shown that the space for action in the years to come will be reduced. The demography in our country is changing, oil revenue is going to go down, and the Storting, party from all over this hall, has political ambitions that bind up funds for years to come. This isn't just something that happens in time, we now also have a government budget that takes over it. It is the first government budget that has been presented for a long time with the Christian People's Party in government, and I am proud that we have a budget that is both sober and responsible. It's a budget that makes it a priority. It is not given net tax relief, but one has been able to follow up the goals of the Granavolden platform on a sustainable welfare society that pursues offensive climate policies and prioritises social economy with safe communities, whether small or large. As I said, the first budget since 2005 has been presented with the Christian People's Party in government, and I think we will see it again in the budget we are now discussing. We see a budget that prioritises the young and the family. Too many kids in our country grow up below the poverty line, and too many do not have the same opportunities as others to participate in different social arenas. Last year we got the first increase in child welfare for years, and this year it is again followed up with a priority from the Christian People's Party and the government when child welfare is raised by $3,600 to the smallest children – precisely because this is a measure that takes those who need it the most. In the same way, too many kids grow up with a everyday life that is characterized by choice and abuse. Over time, a larger bet has been built up, and in this budget, one now comes up to 1 billion. kr in collecting promises in the work against violence and abuse against young people. It's an important priority, and it shows that it's a budget with a clear Christian People's Party image. We in the government invest in the most important thing when we spend the big money on the smallest kids. The teacher's standards are fully funded, there will be free all-day seats and kindergarten for the two- and three-year-olds at the reception of asylum, lower parental pay at the SFO and free SFO for the five- and seven-year-olds. steps with specific needs. This is a budget that looks beyond our own limits. We're increasing the aid budget by 1.4 billion. kr. The funds are given priority to sub-Saharan Africa and the least developed countries, with a particular focus on education, health and marginalised groups. The climate crisis, which is different, also frames the poorest of all. So we have to cut national emissions, but we also have to increase our efforts globally. That's why the government proposes 1.8 billion. SEK for the renewable investment, SEK 1,4 billion. kr for environment and climate and 3,3 billion kr to climate and forest, and at the top of it: 520 million. NOK because Norway has taken a leading role in the resilient management of our seas. At home we have extra CO 2 charges by 5 pst. The propensity for urban public transport is increasing, and the same applies to railway investment. The commitment to carbon capture and storage is continued. Transfer to Nysnø is increasing, and so are the lines to the zero-emission business transport fund. The government also invests in low and zero emission solutions for shipping, which makes it possible for us to take the green shift home and exploit the potential that lies along our coast, as Norway takes a leadership role there. The Christian People's Party is concerned that it will be possible to live and live in the whole country. We therefore facilitate the creation of value throughout the country, with a focus on both broadband and a range of road projects. Furthermore, a follow-up to the agricultural agreement with this state budget, which means that for the first time since 2013, we have an agricultural policy that reduces income differences between farmers and other groups. We've made changes in Stortinget, and about 200 million. kr has been moved. It's more than the previous time we had a multi-digit government, and it's given room to lift the font houses, study associations, fishing leadership and various good local measures, and not least that the TT system has been given the means to expand even more. It also shows that the hearings and rounds in the Storting are real and that the Storting has a role to play in treating this government budget in a good way. We're going to have more budget rounds in Stortinget, and there's a lot of good purposes that you can spend money on, and that one will be forced to set up against each other. I think this is a government budget that shows what's important, and what's most important, and I'm proud that it's now being presented and committed to a government budget that's both responsible and sober.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e826	When I grew up in South Africa, I went to Sunday school. There I learned the song "God Is Mighty". It says: ‘The deaf hear, the paralytes are walking and the blind look again.» It's fine when the Lord of Springs can sort it out. But sometimes, when it doesn't happen, we need the welfare state, so that kids who look small can see well again. That's why I think it's sad when the Christian People's Party is now cutting glasses for faint-minded kids. Nor can I see the next love that sick young people under the age of 25 will get a cut of 60 000 kroner a year if they have to go on redundancy pay. Even though few people were involved in dental regulation in Jesus' time, I can't believe that the Christian People's Party cuts the support of 10,000 children and young people who have been defined to have a clear need for regulation. I have thought that the Christian People's Party at its best will help precisely those who need it the most. So now I wonder, why is it that the Christian People's Party, after they entered the government, believes that this kind of cut, which affects the smallest and the most vulnerable, has now become Christian People's Party policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e842	My father sometimes uses to tell us that the highest education he has is the Sunday ball, and another one of the songs we've learned there is 'All, everyone we want to have'. I can inform the representative from the Labour Party that it is also a good rule on the working line and that it is worth working. The representative takes up a lot of different social arrangements, but what I think is perhaps the worst thing, is when he criticises what is being done to help the young people on the AAP even better. This is a measure that does not come from the Christian People's Party or government, but is a proposal from the Employment Selection Service. It's not about spending less money following up on the group that we see easier to get a whole professional career outside of work, but about spending more of the money to help them before – instead of getting an addition that is higher than other groups that are on Nav or are under education. That's good policy, because it's about helping better, and it's about helping earlier. I expect the Labour Party to also take on board that we have to do something about the employment challenges we have, and that is, we need to be in some demanding debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e851	It is nice that the representative Storehaug refers to the song "Everyone, everyone we want to have." One would think it was the Workers' Party that listened to when we created the slogan 'Everybody should join'. But we have a slightly different medicine when it comes to getting everyone involved, that we think we're helping people better if they don't get on top of everything, get some insurmountable economic concerns. If that's the way Bighaug thinks you're going to be fresher than 130 000 kroner a year, I have to say that it gives the impression of a new Christian People's Party policy that is probably influenced by the new government friends from the Right and the Advance Party. I have always perceived that the Christian People's Party has stood for a policy in which we shall, of course, follow up those who are sick and those who are struggling, but we do not do so in such a way that we shall suspect them just to be late and thus cut in support because we think they are healthy. My question to the representative Storehaug is: When you look at the Labour Party budget, and we have actually managed to put these funds in place while we are following up, why does Storehaug think it is impossible to help both people with proper social arrangements and at the same time be able to follow them up in a good way, so that they get the opportunity to get back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e858	We started this line exchange with the Sunday ball. We didn't learn anything about strawmen there, at least not in the West, but it's a strawman when the Labour Party here added to me that I, for example. will mean that people get more motivated by getting less in return. That's not what I said, and that's not what this grip is about. This is about using more of the funds to help and support rather than having a level of abstinence that is higher than the corresponding level of abstinence for people of the same age. This means that you can spend more money on, for example: IPS plans, which means that instead of people getting training and then being thrown out into work, they can also be followed up when they are on the AAP initiative. These are policies that are about following up the employment selection process. We're going to get more of those discussions in the future. I hope that the Labour Party will be able to take on board the fact that we are also forced to take some of the grips that may be tough, but that we need to prioritise the money better to ensure a better follow-up, so that people can just get back into working life – something we are both a few that is one of the most important measures in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e865	The EU has a common labour market that is not governed by popular governance. Norway entered into the EEA Agreement from 1 January 1994. We no longer have a Nordic labour market but are part of a common EU labour market. Many EU countries have very poor pay and working conditions and high unemployment rates. It is therefore no wonder that skilled Eastern European young people come to Norway and work for a payment that they cannot afford when living in the high-cost country of Norway. This weakens the Norwegian model every day. The reason is uncontrolled labour immigration from the EU. This creates poorer and unsafe pay and employment conditions for a number of jobs in Norway. The Christian People's Party must agree with the Center Party that a well-organized working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. Will the Christian People's Party support the Central Party in the demand for controlled labour immigration from the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e872	I don't know if there's a requirement or an ambition the representative pulls up here. The Christian People's Party is for us to have a well-regulated working life, and the representative is quite right that it is important for a good family life. But I do not think that the answers to the challenges that can be posed by Norway being part of the single European market are the proposals put on the table by the Central Party today. As it turned out in the line-up of early doctors today, the representative Svein Roald Hansen challenged the Center Party on just to cut 2 billion. kr in the EEA quota, it means either that the Centre Party is wondering its constituents and has not intended to take the money, or that it terminates the EEA Agreement as of 1 January 2020. It is not a measure that will make the labour market in Norway any better, and at least not for those parts of the country that are dependent on exports from the corner stone companies located there. These are the things we solve by looking at the challenges of the real labour market out there, and coming up with answers to the regulations we do, as the Storting did with the housing problem, for example, where one now sees that in some sectors the use of tenants goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e877	Two weeks ago this room, with the voices of the Christian People's Party, decided to drop teacher training at Nesna and nurse training in Lake Sandness. This will have major consequences for the municipalities in the Nordic countries, and North Norway, with regard to obtaining qualified teachers and nurses, in a situation where there is already a great shortage of teachers and nurses in the region. The main background to the SV’s desire to ask the board of directors of the Nordic University not to abandon these educations was a merger agreement on the basis of which the study sites continued and further developed. Nest leader of the Christian People's Party, Ingelin Noresjö, has stated in connection with the closure that she feels cheated by the merger agreement. Does the representative of the Christian People's Party agree with his own Vice-Chairman that the closure of the places of study in Helgeland is a clear breach of the merger agreement, a merger agreement that is only three years old?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e884	There's two points here that I'm thinking are very important. There have been clear indications — when one is taking these steps — that there should be a good teacher training in Helgeland, and that there should be more places, so that one can also meet the needs of too well-trained teachers locally. That grip's stuck. The second important point, and here I'm actually dividing the representative's starting point for the line, is that we have to have a look for the Nesna, and there's a look that several state levels are required to have. We see too many places in our country that different state agencies and different state levels think in their small silo, and then the sum of different measures – which sometimes, in isolation, may have good foundation – makes mistakes. What I mean is important here with Nesna, is that one now from municipalities, from the state level and from the state side is involved in ensuring the total level of supply in Nesna, that it becomes important, that one has a health look at it, and that one meets the local needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e890	Then the cord shift is over. For information, we have now also received light on the speaker's chair. The debate has gone on in the dark enough, but now it's settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e897	It's nice to be set on light. The Greens made a fantastic local choice. We are now in the position of 62 municipalities, four counties and eight districts in Oslo, including all the major cities in Norway. The climate issue has become a popular movement, and for the first time Norwegian voters believe that climate is the most important issue. The difference between good and bad climate policies is the pace. When emissions are barely going down, today’s government defends itself that they are planning to cut emissions in the future and that otherwise there will soon be another action plan to solve everything. Unfortunately, as pushing climate action ahead is not a strange exercise, a new record for CO2 concentration in the atmosphere was set on Monday. The latest United Nations climate report states that we have to cut emissions by 7.6 pst. annually from 2020 onwards in order to avoid the worst climate change. The Green Party shows in its alternative state budget how we can cut emissions by 60 pst. by 2030. We take three major steps that really contribute to emissions cuts: We use environmental taxes and tax exemptions to make it easier to choose environmentally friendly. We're removing the oil subsidies, including the lighter fusion system. It will reduce the activity and: the emissions from the oil sector. We're going to spend a total of 20 billion dollars. kr more than the government on climate action, inter alia. for non-emission shipping, carbon capture and storage, an agricultural climate fund and a climate community pool where individuals can apply for subsidies to reduce their climate footprint. It is in the year 40 years since Norway adopted its first climate target. Both red and blue parties in Norway have to assume that they have failed in the most important task: to take care of our very life base. In the last year, many people have talked about green politics breaking out unfairly. The left side has even begun to argue that green policy must be red. Let me take the opportunity to dement it. In fact, green policy has to be green. Green parties all over Europe are fighting for a society of small social differences – a society in which strong communities ensure the security and freedom of individuals, a society that takes account of the rights of future generations and people far away from us, a society in which human dignity is strong. The essence of the Green Party's tax policy is that we use taxes for a strong social redistribution and the charges to ensure that both business and people make choices that are consistent with our children and grandchildren. It means less tax, especially for those with income less than 600,000 kroner. We are proposing changes in the step tax, which means that all of the 1 million people who make between 250,000 and 400,000 kroner a year get an annual tax bill of 4000 kroner with our order. In addition, we introduce climate reward. We propose a tax increase on petrol and diesel that we pay back to the population. That way, we'll make it even more profitable to make green choices. A family with normal income and normal driving distance will go in plus our alternative budget proposal, and residents in the districts will get significantly better off than people in the cities. We are promoting two verbal proposals in relation to the financial position. We propose to ask the government to deliver an obligatory, sectorial climate budget, with open and verifiable sources. We also propose to reverse the government's excise duty on biofuels outside the turnover requirement because we believe the solution proposed by the government is not good enough. We are also voting in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal not to grant tax exemptions for biofuels with a high deforestation risk. I am not addressing the proposal we have promoted in the financial position to set up a Committee on Climate Change, but rather to promote it in the budgetary position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. With that, I take up the suggestions I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e933	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e940	The representative started by referring to the choice. What we experienced in the election was, especially in Oslo and Bergen, also a pretty strong polarization among the voters. My question is: what, according to the Greens' view of the Environment Party, is going to prevent the polarization we have now experienced especially in Oslo and Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e945	It was an invitation to a little reflection. I think the representative here refers to, among other things. the toll debate. I have also said in the past that I believe that the government contributed to the strengthening of anti-bombs, instead of going out and explaining why they have tolls in the cities. We are against the tolls that are going to finance large motorways, but in the city the tolls have a number of advantages for urban development. That's been the reason why the majority of the Biggest have agreed on it for a very long time. When it comes to how you get upset – well, the first is to start defending climate policy even when it means standing upright in a small storm. The people want to be led in the greatest crisis of our time, we don't have to be so afraid of political leadership. I believe we are in greater danger now because we have a government that is administrators in our greatest crisis instead of taking political leadership and showing why we need radical climate action – as we have never seen before – because the globe is in crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e952	I think that one of the most crucial things for bringing about the changes that are absolutely necessary in society is to make sure that the whole population is with us. We've seen polarization especially in the two largest cities, but we also see a sense of amputation in that people have challenges to see how they themselves can be active, but at the same time are afraid of the consequences for themselves – in getting to work, etc. What is the most important measure to ensure that we bring the entire population into line with the changes that are absolutely necessary in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e957	The most important single action that politicians should do in terms of climate is to stick to what they promise. The biggest problem in climate policy over very many years has been the fact that Norwegian politicians promise more than they keep when they come to the negotiating table and give priority to many important, good things. This has caused us to put the huge amount of climate work at risk, and it's a huge problem. We're starting to get into a situation where we can't make up for ourselves anymore. We pass on this burden to future generations. I don't have a reason to say that that's the main reason why trust in top politicians is bad, but I think it's a co-cause, because climate is a very important thing for many. If you see political leaders or other politicians not being able to keep what they promise in terms of climate, but rather stress how bad and difficult climate policy is, and how difficult it is to implement climate action, they also reinforce the feeling of the individual that – well, it may not be my priority. It is also very important that we are predictable. In electric car policy, for example, it is very important that we are very clear that it should be an advantage to have an electric car for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e964	In its alternative budget, the Green Party has greatly increased environmental taxes. The fuel charge shall be up by 5 kroner, the CO2 charge shall increase by 50 pst, and the fare shall increase by a total of 11 billion. kr. There's no doubt that the climate challenges are something we're going to solve together. It's about having people with you, but you also have to have a large number of people with you. And here the centre party comes into the picture, for the representative of Bastholm and the Greens will not only agree with the Center Party if you create an opposition majority here in Stortinget. That batch will reduce fuel taxes, increase CO2 tax exemptions and reduce flight charges. Can the Green Party cooperate with a party that will do so, or is it excluded for the Green Party to cooperate with the Centre Party in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e969	I am very honoured that the Right Politicians, also in the Government, are now very concerned about the possibility that you can form a majority that is currently just a potential idea, instead of being more concerned about what you can do in the position. I'm going to answer the question, but I want to stress that the latest climate report is so alarming that I recommend the staging representative to read it and see what the government of the staging representative actually does to solve this crisis, instead of being concerned about what we can achieve in two years' time. There is a lot we have to do already in 2020 to be able to avoid a climate disaster. Otherwise, I see that what we agree on in the opposition parties now is that we should have a good district profile on climate policy and that it should be a good social profile in politics in general. What I disagree with is that it's over the petrol pump we're going to drive social distribution, not over the tax bill. I think the tax bill should be the big muscle of social distribution, not environmental taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e974	Yesterday we could read about 23 oil companies that contribute 147 billion. kr in tax. The Greens say in a comment on this news that we do not need this money – they still go straight into the oil fund, and the oil fund yields so good returns that the fund grows in any case. That we have a party that believes that 63 pst. Of the total corporation tax is not necessary, it is surprising in itself, but what I would like to hear from the Greens is the consequence of their policy when they now want to stop new search licenses, which will mean that the oil companies will stop looking and reducing their maintenance overnight, which will have a major impact on tens of thousands of jobs more or less overnight. What will the Green Party do to compensate for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e979	I have to say with respect that I believe the representative here reveals a lack of knowledge about how the oil money is managed and how the oil revenue system is. 147 B.C.E. kr of the total revenue from the oil is tax from the oil companies, a large pot of the direct investments made by Norway on the base and all that goes into the oil fund. We say that we don't depend on having the fresh money into the oil fund to continue to have a fund that is healthy and good and provides social security for the Norwegian population. It depends on how we manage that fund. The fund grows more annually in money from investment returns than fresh money. This allows us to free ourselves from the nervousness of our dependence on that money. I don't think we are. But what is right in the speeches by the representative is that our policy, for example. by removing the exploration mechanism and other tax advantages for the oil industry, will have a very strong short-term effect on new investments in oil. And I think that's right. It is not right today to continue looking for more oil and gas. We must shift that investment focus to other sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e985	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e990	Since the majority of the population adopted the last state budget, we have a year behind us with increasing differences. We see a district uprising, because the inhabitants feel that the differences also fall by postcode. We see that children and young people are going to strike against the action of climate policy, that people in many parts of the world are standing up in protest against oppression and increasing economic differences, or are being chased away from war and distress. Unfortunately, the government's proposals do not address these major challenges that are in our time. On the contrary, the government budget increases the economic disparities and emissions of greenhouse gases, increases centralisation and does not take the international responsibility that we should take. In our draft budget, we show that it is possible to strengthen the community through welfare reforms and balance differences through fairer distribution. We allow the richest of us to contribute more to the community through dynasty taxes and a more progressive income tax. We make dental health cheaper and free for many more, and we introduce free kindergarten for five-year-olds. We increase social assistance rates and child welfare for all children. And not least, we suggest that children of social welfare recipients should also retain child welfare. We reverse the government's petty cut in child glasses and dental regulation because we believe that economic differences should not also appear on people's faces, and we reverse the ABE reform, so we stop the traffickers in the public sector. A tidy working life, a strong trade union movement and a genuine safety net for all are the keys to increased value creation, social cohesion and also green migration. Red increases the trade union deduction. We're stepping up the fight against social dumping, we're strengthening the Nav and the Social Security Court, we're putting in 3,000 new areas of action. We're reversing the AAP cut for young people, and we're giving 2,200 unexplained AAP recipients extended benefits. Then Red promises the municipal economy with 7 billion. to strengthen local self-government and ensure welfare services for people throughout the country. We spend money on mail delivery all week, we strengthen the police districts, and we focus on a fair environmental policy by introducing a climate discount for those who have medium or low income. Then we turn the state's effort from oil to renewable industries, and we're going to bet a lot on building up railways across Norway. Red also proposes to strengthen our hospitals by 1.6 billion. kr. Closed maternity wards and long-distance travel to the nearest hospital weaken preparedness and cause public unrest. A good hospital offer to the whole country is a prerequisite for having viable districts. Then we show that it is possible to take greater responsibility for people on the run and take greater international responsibility for limiting the flow of refugees. We do that by cutting military operations abroad and ensuring better conditions for those working in peace and disarmament. Let's use 1 pst. of GNI on assistance. It is a fundamental error when government parties facilitate a new Reichsmanhood in Norway through large tax cuts to the rich. What we should do is listen to the movements of the people if they dress up, if they flock behind the tabs of the trade movement, if they gather against the destructive wind power industry or if they wear yellow vests. The message is clear: we are on the wrong track in Norway – another direction is needed where we strengthen the community and the people's rule, combat centralisation and bring down the differences both by wallet and postcode. With that, I take up Red's proposal for a government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1013	The representative Bears Moxnes has then drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1020	Red wants to make Norway less oil dependent, and it is a wish for the Workers' Party to share. But the way Red wants to reduce oil dependence, I still have to ask questions about it. The lot Red wants to cut the search fusion system, cut 1.2 billion. finance in exploration and field development and cut off all investments in which the State is a joint owner. All changes are proposed from 1 January 2020 as I can read them. 1 January is 34 days away. If Red's proposal were adopted today, it would give our supplier industry full investment and unemployment. In their budget, Red himself writes that those who work in the oil and gas industry will not receive the bill for the necessary conversion in terms of unemployment and insecurity. My question to the representative, Mr Moxnes, is therefore: will not the proposal of the party lead to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1027	Red calls for a share – a small part – of our oil fund to be used for investment in the new green industry in Norway to secure jobs for the future. Both infrastructure and new industries need investment in, and here we know that private capital is somewhat cautious, because they do not necessarily see returns in the next quarter by investing in what is the future industrial workplace in Norway, which is green and environmentally friendly. So in our budget, we're going to spend over 1 billion. kr more than the government to build the green Norwegian model with environmentally friendly industrial workplaces and over 700 million. kr more than the government just to take parts of the retreat on the Norwegian railway. This will provide a job for a lot of new people and is also necessary. So it's about getting the transition away from oil addiction and getting into a more renewable and sustainable society in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1040	It is nice to invest more in new industries and new industries. The working party also has 1 billion. kr to new green industry in its budget. But there are thus hundreds of thousands of people working directly or indirectly in the oil industry, which is a sector that plans for the long term under stable conditions. That's why my question is – and it's hypothetical: if Red from today had a clean majority in the Grand Duchy, from 1 January onwards, the investment halt in oil and gas, to which it is added in their alternative budget, would have been implemented, with the consequences it would have for thousands of hard-working people along our coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1047	All the parties' budgets are set up in such a way that you show what you would do if you had a majority on the Storting. With our budget, we would have a strong commitment to a strengthened local economy and to a strengthened county economy and investment in new renewable and green industries in our country. We wanted to take seriously what the United Nations says about countries having to stop looking for new oil, which may come into production in the 2070s-2080s. If the Workers' Party agrees and will take these warnings seriously and convert Norway away from oil dependence and into a renewable society, then the question is back to the Workers' Party whether they are willing to use a small proportion of Norway's huge oil wealth to ensure that we get the necessary investments that both contribute to solving the global climate crisis and at the same time ensure jobs nationally. We must then dare to use some of this wealth in Norwegian industry and technology and in Norwegian infrastructure and not just use it to invest in shares in other countries' companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1052	The government has introduced the option tax regime. This means that several employees can become co-owners in their own company and that entrepreneurs can attract more good employees. Red, on its side, will not just put down our biggest industry, increase taxes by 40 billion. NOK and send to many of the companies that are now converting outside the bankruptcy dome. They run counter to the option tax system and to measures that bring small entrepreneurs into competition with the large and established. So my question to the representative is: why is Red against the option tax system when they know that it will make it more difficult for small businesses, and not least make it harder for employees to become co-owners of their own businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1059	Red has a different plan than Right to ensure that the workers are given control of the enterprises. It's socialism. It's not right for, but it's red for. Then we have a number of measures in our budget that are about strengthening industry and also strengthening the transition in several industries, which will be an advantage for both large and small enterprises. We have over 1 billion. kr to new industry. We have over 700 million. kr to resume the lag on maintenance on our railway, which will get people to work. We're increasing by 200 million. kr to Nysnø. We're increasing by 100 million. kr to the Eco-Technology Scheme – general strengthening. We're increasing by 150 million. kr for industrial emissions cuts, including part of the eco-innovation scheme. We also have a number of actions for Enova, in excess of half a billion, to ensure that there is a change, climate change and commitment to new solutions, which will both strengthen the transition and ensure that they become more robust and equipped for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1066	After all, it has its roots in communism, and not only its roots, if you read in their program – their present and future are also in communism, an ideology that cannot show growth or well-being in real life, but only distress and misery. A severe reduction in ownership, increased taxes and the acquisition of the means of production by the proletariat is part of this. Red proposes to increase taxes and charges by about 40 billion. kr only next year. According to Red, this is only for the rich. Values must be created as they are known before they can be shared. Does the representative of Moxnes think that his budget line will lead to more – or fewer – opting to invest their money in Norway? And how is it going to be more well-being if there's no more sharing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1074	Red does not increase taxes on the income group that earns around average wages in Norway. We also greatly reduce the tax for those in trade unions, for those in commuting, for those who are lone carriers. We're cutting heavily in VAT, with over a billion dollars. kr, which will make it cheaper for people most both to travel by bus, experience cinema, sports, museums. We also cut VAT into Norwegian-produced fruit and vegetables. So most people get a lot of cuts in the charges with Red's alternative scheme. Then we see that the government has cut the taxes by 25.5 billion. kr – without being able to identify a single new job as a result of these tax cuts. On the contrary, we see a sharp increase in differences in Norway due to the systematic cut in taxes by the government for those who have the most. Yours will not Red, we will bring down the differences, and we also have money for investment in new industry, which we have entered in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1081	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1086	Norway is going well. The unemployment rate is the lowest in ten years. Investments in mainland Norway are the highest in the same number of years. New and forward-looking jobs are being created throughout the country. This means that more people have a job to go to, and more families have faith in the future and can plan the future better. And the fact that more people complete higher education means that fewer people fall outside. The majority of the population has come up with a budget unit that will enable the good and safe development of the Norwegian economy to continue. In all its budgets, the government has prioritised growth-promoting tax relief and forward-looking investment. Among other things, we have: lowered the tax for both people and businesses from 28 to 22 pst. reduced taxes on wealth introduces option tax arrangements and investment deductions for small start-up companies to strengthen business start-up policy; The strong commitment to commerce continues. In a long-term country with mountains and fjords, a well-developed road network is important for businesses – not least for the many corner stone holdings, which provide the basis for living for small communities but which are often far away from customers. We're doing great with the green shift. In the state budget for 2020, we prioritise research and technology development that will contribute to lower emissions and green jobs. Emissions are falling, we have the lowest emissions since 1995, per capita emissions are lower than 30 years ago. Norway is well advanced in technological development. Norwegian enterprises are innovative and use new technologies faster than many other countries. Greener technologies are also to be used in other countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our technology can thus contribute to international climate change and give our businesses new areas to make money. The State budget for 2020 is a continuation of government’s commitment to safe and good roads and the further development of rail and public transport. In 2019, the record volume of four-field motorways will be opened. Next year we'll continue to open more. Four-field highways are the safest roads we have. Better roads also mean faster entry of goods into markets, and larger areas of housing and labour market. The cars are becoming more environmentally friendly. When we took up the government offices, emissions from new passenger cars in Norway were at EU level. Today we are more than 40 pst. in the EU. There is a result of the rapid phase-in of electric cars and low-emission cars, which have received lower charges. Seven out of ten cars sold this year are low and zero-emission cars. Train offers improve with multiple departures, better network coverage, more new trains and two new railway projects. In addition, public transport subsidies are being increased in urban areas, so that tolls can be reduced. We contribute funds to eliminate the waste time tax on Northern Ireland. In addition, we're going to grant $1.4 billion. to reduce tolls in the districts. Norway is getting safer. Police reform is important in meeting the new crime scene. In recent years, profit crime has fallen sharply. There'll be fewer burglaries, thefts, and the personran. That may not be so strange, because today we have much less cash on us, Vipps and cards have completely taken over for the cash. We ensure our homes better, and mobile phones and other personal equipment are less attractive to steal because the technology has made products safer. On the other hand, the Internet has given us a completely different crime scene, where net crimes against children and young people have become a much larger problem. Since 2014, there has been an increase of 162 pst. in cases of abuse against children under 16 years of age. It shows that the problem is increasing, but also that you're discovering more than before. The Internet and online solutions are new tools for criminals. Some choose to push Norwegian boys and girls to send nude pictures of themselves. Behind the screen on the other side are the backmen who pressure them for money and threaten to put the pictures out. When I visited the police in the interior, they told me that the police reform had made them better able to take these very attackers. Therefore, over several years, we have systematically built up police competence on cybercrime. It's given results. We have established our own specialist online environment on Kripos, and we are helping to detect more attackers. Next year, we will continue the fight for a safer Norway. We reach the Storting's goal of two police per thousand inhabitants, and we grant more money to the police so that they are better equipped to prevent crime and expose criminal acts. With this budget, we are fulfilling the long-term defence plan. That means we're better able to protect our country. The defence is not only to defend the inhabitants, we also have long traditions of stabilising and peace-keeping assistance in parts of the world that are marked by war and conflict. And we're going to keep doing that. This government is facilitating growth throughout the country. We are pursuing a policy that contributes to a more competitive business life, building infrastructure and reducing taxes and charges for ordinary workers. Only in the last year, almost 50,000 more people have come to work — four out of five in the private sector. And not least, employment growth has come across the country. It strengthens the sustainability of our welfare society. The major challenge for many regions now is access to skilled labour. New jobs and changing working lives require new skills and mechanisms to facilitate continuing training. We propose, among other things: changes in training support, as well as increasing the appropriations for the reform of skills and establishing a competence programme. This will help to give more people the skills required by the labour market. Unemployment has decreased in almost all counties in the last year. The availability is very low in several parts of the country. Contributing to people having a job to go to is the most important thing we can do for most people to take part in economic growth and get better security for themselves and their families. And we'll do that. In one generation, 30 years, the median income has actually increased by almost 80 pst., and the growth has been evenly distributed among most income groups. More people who work mean that more and more families and individuals can plan the future better. The government will continue its efforts to reduce the industrial form fields and facilitate increased investment and job creation in Norway. That's what we depend on to ensure the welfare community. Lower taxes on wealth are important for Norwegian ownership, as it makes investing in Norwegian jobs more attractive. It also told the people behind the company Brunvoll when I visited them in Molde for a while. This is a corner stone company that was started 100 years ago by two brothers in a small building on a ferry dock in Molde to make engines for fishing vessels. The left side wants them to pay more taxes because they have goods in stock. The Workers' Party's proposal for a strong increase in the wealth tax not only weakens Norwegian ownership, it affects Norwegian owners widely, including those who invest in the districts, such as. Brunvoll. In summary, we prioritise measures for a greener, more modern and safer Norway, both in the city and district. The opposition parties have submitted their alternative draft budgets. I've tried to go through them, but they crack in every direction. There are very few common denominators besides that they want to replace today's government, and that everyone agrees to increase taxes and taxes. To follow the political meat weight in Stortinget, it means increased expenditure for people most: Where the government has reduced taxes and taxes by 25.5 billion. kr, wishes the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV to increase taxes by nearly 4 billion respectively. NOK, up to 10 billion. kr and over 22 br. kr. The Greens and Reds will go even further. It is unsocial and hostile to districts, because tax and tax cuts affect employees and businesses across the country. When Red, SV and the Environmental Party Greens all increase their fuel and diesel taxes heavily, it goes without saying that hundreds of thousands of Norwegians are hit every day who have to drive a car to work, pick up children in the kindergarten or drive them for leisure activities. I think we have to conduct a transport policy that is not just for those who have a T-Bahn station outside the door. In the state budget now to be adopted, the majority removes a number of special advantages for refugees in the population’s security. I do not understand how the Workers' Party, SV, Red and the Green Party believe that refugees should not comply with the same requirements as other workers in terms of social security. The government and the majority believe that property taxes are unsocial and unfair. It hits poor as rich. People's houses and apartments should be their homes, not a treasure item. Living is not something people can choose from. We want to reduce the ability of municipalities to balance the budget with property taxes. Therefore, we aim to reduce the maximum property tax rate for housing and recreational housing from 5 to 4 per mille in 2021 and come back to this as part of a comprehensive arrangement for the municipal economy in connection with the municipal bill for 2021. On the other hand, the opposition stands together, as one of a few places, and demands that people's homes remain a lucrative treasure for their municipalities. The government budget suggests that the good development of the Norwegian economy can continue. We spend the good time getting more people to work, and we continue to invest in growth-promoting measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1163	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1168	One of the things the Minister of Finance was talking about was securing well-being. Then I have recorded that the Minister of Finance has planned to create a perspective message already next year, and it seems that the Labour Party is a very good idea. At the same time, I notice that the Minister of Finance has as his basis that she wants to invite the other political parties to a political debate on how we can cut public spending in the future. So let's have that. We've already seen how the government cuts. They cut kids who need glasses or dental regulation, or young people who go on redundancy money, but we have a better proposal. What about a don't throw money at people who want to buy luxury cars? With the Workers' Party's proposal for a VAT discount on electric cars equivalent to 600,000 kroner, the Community will save almost half a billion dollars. So I would like the Minister of Finance to explain to us why she only wants to cut public spending when it comes to social arrangements for those who have the least, and not cut lucrative arrangements for those who have the most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1175	Let me first say that the entire state budget is in its nature redistributive. Most of the expenditure we have on the State budget is just to secure welfare schemes for people who, for various reasons, need these schemes, whether they are ill, they should be at home with children, or those for various reasons fall out of work from time to time. What I think is special is that when you hear the Workers' Party's approach to cutting, they say they're against the red tape, which gives us $1.7 billion. kr to be distributed each year. Then they say – and have demonstrated it in all their alternative budgets – that they are against all the cuts of government, and so says the Labour Party leader in debates, among others. with me that the Workers' Party would rather go in for a targeted cut. Then it is very easy for me to ask the question back to the representative Tajik: What targeted cut is the Workers' Party looking for that will give the same redistributive mechanism in the state budget and at the same time free up room for action to the efforts we need in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1182	I must have almost misunderstood. The finance minister said she wanted to have a political ideal across the parties about how to cut public spending. I got hurt to take it seriously. The Labour Party has a proposal, quite properly, and that's that one should stop throwing money after people who have a lot of money already by. Now one sees that there are many good electric car options, with a longer range and that are cheaper in price. Why should a continue to throw money after those who want to buy luxury cars for 1 million? Do you really want to delete this item? It is an entirely real proposal that will also help to free up capacity on the State budget to make other types of investment of a more urgent nature. Why does the Minister of Finance not want to take part in this proposal when, after all, she invites to a political debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1187	I think it is very good if the Workers' Party takes that idea seriously, but then you have to go into the reality that everyone is going to have to deal with in the future, that is, that we have to re-prioritize in every state budget in the future if we are to safeguard and secure our welfare systems at the same time. The Labour Party has not been able to do so in its alternative budget. They're against all reforms, but they keep the money. They say they're against the ABE reform, but they're holding $1.7 billion. NOK because they cannot reverse the cut as they say they are against it. At the same time, they're talking about targeted cuts without us being able to see what it is. I disagree that it is wise to make changes to the electric car benefits, which are predictable, and which help us achieve our climate objectives faster than if we make changes to this. You have to be able to have more thoughts in your head at the same time, and the Workers' Party is not a believer. They make changes to the environmental charges while at the same time tightening the charges for other cars as well. So it's not really an option for ordinary people to choose with the Labour Party scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1192	I'm just recording that the Minister of Finance doesn't answer it by throwing money at people who already have a lot of money, that she doesn't say anything that she wants to make any changes to luxury cars and the funding of it. So then she's probably going to keep spending her community money that way. I think that the most important reason why the Minister of Finance invites you to that kind of imagination to cut expenses is that she has not managed to increase the income of the country in a sensible way. Then more people have to go to work. Although there are good economic times, we need 50,000 people in the job just to be on average over the last ten years, and we lack almost 200,000 jobs to get back to the European summit, in competition with Sweden and Iceland. In the last seven state budgets we see that it has been a record high use of oil money. I'm sure there's a reason, too, but I'm recording that one has not been able to follow up with a record high job creation, and that's what I'm asking: why has the government not been able to use good times in the Norwegian economy and a huge use of oil money to get more people to work, and thus increase the income of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1199	First, I answered the question. The government intends to maintain the electric car benefits because the policy is working and the emissions from the transport sector are falling. Then I have to say that the so-called relevant interest of the Workers' Party is in order to increase the income of the state fund, not being a believer in the tax and tax arrangements put forward by the Workers' Party. In one year it is proposed to increase the tax burden in this country by almost 10 billion. kr, and most of it will take the capital we depend on to invest in the jobs that will create new revenues. It's not like we're getting 50,000 new businesses just wanting to. Then we have to facilitate through good, predictable and competitive framework conditions, and then the tax burden means something. You can't afford to budget out of it by sending the tax bill to those who are going to invest in new businesses. That's the easiest answer for the opposition, and we see that. Strong tax incentives are being brought together, and then it is very easy to finance expensive welfare commitments when sending the bill to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1206	During Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance, there has been a sharp increase in taxes on people and businesses in Norway. It is those who have at least been in the past who are hardest hit when charges are increasing. We have received an increase in the electricity charge of 38.9 pst. and increase in petrol and fuel taxes – more in one year than in eight red-green years. Governments are talking about binding Norway together. One of the things that connects our long-range country is the short-range network of planes. On the other hand, there has been an increase in fees of 1 billion kroner. kr under today's government, which leads to a more expensive and less expensive offer for both people and business. Therefore, one has to go the other way – strengthen the allocations on FOT routes, one has to make sure to reduce the VAT rate again, one has to make sure to exempt flights below 20 tonnes from air passenger charges. Why does the government contribute to a more expensive and less expensive offer on the short-haul network through increased charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1214	The country's tax revenue is now 10 billion. kr lower than the last central part of the government. When the Central Party left the government offices, we had 10 billion. NOK more in tax receipts to the treasury than what we now have. In addition, the Centre Party proposes an overall fiscal tightening in its alternative budget. They have to try to represent themselves as a party that wants to give relief to people across the country, but the truth is that the Center Party is also providing an alternative budget where the taxes are tightened up. But not enough, the Center Party is also trying to create the impression that they're implementing bureaucrats that only hit Oslo. That's wrong. There are cuttings in the Adjustervesenet at Kjeller, in the Maritime Directorate in Haugesund, in the Competition Authority in Bergen, in the Board of Directors at Hønefoss, in the Oil Directorate in Stavanger and Harstad, in Engerdal, in all the county offices, in Leikanger. That's the consequences of the so-called bureaucrat of the Center Party. So you can't say one thing and do another thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1221	What the Council of State says here is directly wrong. Charges in Norway, charges paid in Norway today, are significantly higher than when the Senterpartie was put in government. The Council of State is trying to refer to excise duties as part of the charges. One must, of course, include all the charges if one is to look at the payment of charges in Norway. It has increased by approx. 40 B.C.E. kr in 2020-kroner since Siv Jensen became Minister of Finance. If she wants to use the number rather than the number that goes on adopted changes in fees, it's going to be a little bit better for the Center Party, but it's going to be an even higher number. In the case of bureaucracy: Yes, it makes sense to reduce bureaucracy wherever it is in Norway, so that we can strengthen the close services for people. It's much more important for people that a policeman comes when you need help, that there's an ambulance, that there's going to be some warm hands in the care of the elderly, than you have a state bureaucracy. Why does the Minister of Finance have a touching concern about providing state bureaucracy instead of providing good services to people throughout Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1228	Firstly, this government has reduced the total tax burden by 25.5 billion. kr. So it goes down. With the Central Party's budgetary options, it's going up. Then I think it is commendable to hear that the centre party acknowledges that cutting red tape can be sensible, and as the representative Gülsvik said – no matter where in Norway it is. That is what this government has done, systematically every year, and met a massive criticism from the Central Party for that very thing. In the budget for next year, we propose to make changes in tax collection. There are now municipal bureaucracy positions, and so we're going to bring it together into stronger regional units. The centre party is against it and uses it to caricate the image that they are cutting in state jobs across the whole country. That's exactly what the Center Party is doing, and that's essentially what I'm trying to get out. It makes sense to reduce bureaucracy. It makes sense to free up space for action – whether the space for action is in Bergen, Trondheim or Oslo – so that we can strengthen the welfare systems. Then the Center Party must begin to be honest in its communication. They're not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1235	We are constantly experiencing new speech points from the government in the defense of the tax cuts to the richest. The last attempt has been to say that the ten percent that pay most in personal taxes pay 40 pst. of the total income of the country — as if it were saying anything else but that there may have been more rich here in Norway. We have also seen that the representative Asheim has said to Dagbladet that SV cannot escape the fact that the property tax we now have is more redistributive than the property tax we had under the red-green government. It is interesting, all the time new figures from the Ministry of Finance show that the thousands of people with the highest wealth in Norway have had a cut of 800 000 kroner between 2013 and 2017 and nearly 300 000 kroner in the last two years. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether the Minister for Finance shares Asheim's view that the wealth tax is now more redistributive than under the red-green?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1242	We've done calculations on this. I understand that it is a little uncomfortable for SV to meet himself in the door when it comes to this. The truth is that if we had gone back to the property tax scheme as it was under the red-green government, it would have been less redistributive than it is now. This is due, inter alia, to: that this government has taken the trouble to do something about the bottom deduction. It is now the case that in order for us to create jobs, to be able to distribute the state budget – which is what politicians like best, to spend the money of others – some have to create values. Some people have to create jobs, and that means something about how we tax our businesses. Therefore, it means something whether we tax the capital out of Norway or facilitate its investment in Norway. It's a very honest thing that the left-hand side is most concerned about spending money on the state budget, but this government is therefore concerned that we need to generate revenue from the state budget, so that we can ensure good, safe welfare arrangements in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1251	Under this government, the number of billionaires in Norway has increased from 200 to 341. Siv Jensen is thus the Minister of Finance of billionaires. At the same time, we see that the proportion of households with low incomes is increasing, and that 100,000 children are growing up and living in poverty. Now the government has increased child-rearing in the last two years – that's good. But almost 50,000 children and their families will never see anything about this money, because neither will the government in the next year's budget grant the money needed to keep families in social care. Why does Siv Jensen think it is right that these children, who live in the poorest families among us, should not retain the child's fear when it is increased for all other children?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1258	What this government has done systematically over the last few years is to facilitate precisely to have welfare systems that meet those who need it most. That's one of the reasons why we've made changes in kindergarten prices, so that those who can afford to pay the maximum price in kindergarten do so, while those who need free core time in kindergarten get it. That is how we have set up a wide range of welfare systems to meet those that have the greatest challenges in our welfare society. But it's enough anyway that the most important thing we can do to reduce poverty, to prevent children from growing up in poverty, is to facilitate more people getting into work. We know that very many families where child poverty is an increasing problem are minority families. The most important job we can do is to make sure these children get into kindergarten, so that both parents can get to work, learn Norwegian and be contributors to the state budget instead of living off the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1263	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1268	The Norwegian economy is doing well, and the responsible economic policy is a recognizable feature of government policy. By being restrained in the use of oil money in good times, we create more room for growth in business so that the rest of the economy grows more than the public sector. With a lower tax burden on businesses, we create room for value creation and innovation. Enterprises in mainland Norway now invest more than 10 years. This strengthens the prospects for the future, it strengthens jobs – and it does so throughout the country. This helps to equip us for a future where oil activity means less to us than today. I think that's one of the main goals we have to have in every budget in the future: create more jobs, make sure we have revenues at a time when oil means less, and at the same time make sure that we qualify people for the jobs that come. We see that Norway has become less oil dependent in recent years. It can be measured in different ways, but one of them is looking at what demand we have from oil into the economy of mainland Norway. It was on the other side of 13 pst. in 2013, and it is now at 8.2 pst. There are signs of the pull, there are signs of addiction, but when there are percent numbers, it means that we're growing in other parts of the economy, so we're helping to create more legs to stand on in the future. But this does not happen overnight or with a quick fix. We must not forget that it is not more than three years since we were on this platform talking about high unemployment, challenges for families and major difficulties in the Norwegian economy. This underlines the need for an overall objective to work on what we will live on in the future, including in future budgets. Then we continued with this budget our work on inclusion, because more people have to work: for themselves, because it gives life and public health, and because it is important for society and for the social economy. If we're going to get more people to work, we both have to create the jobs and make sure that we give opportunities to everyone. We do that by providing a better school with more early efforts, with a better follow-up of the professions in the future. We add up to a number of teacher specialists, we continue further training, which we have spent every year on budgets. Several teachers should be closer to providing early and good help to students, and children growing up in low-income families should have the same opportunity as everyone else. This is why we are increasing child welfare, and we are following up free core time in kindergartens for children in low-income families – together with increased use of graded parental benefit in the school leisure system. A safe childhood and a good school is a foundation not only for every child, but actually for the development of our whole society. The government's treatment of the state budget is pointing forward. The next year there will be fewer municipalities and municipalities, but also stronger. Digitalisation is increasing, broadband investment is strengthened, government's efforts on better and safer roads continue to increase. And Norwegian climate emissions have fallen three years in a row, we need to go back to the mid-1990s to find the same level of emissions as in 2018. In this state budget, we are taking further steps to speed up this positive development. We're devoting capital to green growth, we're introducing new climate measures in the transport sector and the fishing fleet, and we're increasing the CO 2 tax. The State budget strengthens the commitment to public services in cities and further develops the railways. This budget also facilitates the follow-up of our commitment to the EU to reduce climate change emissions by 2030. We're doing this at a time when there's more trouble around us. We are experiencing lower economic growth and progressive trade wars internationally. It shows, first, the importance of being an integral part of the European market through the EEA, but it also shows that it is not certain that the coming years will be as good for external demand to be lower. The more challenging security policy situation also underlines the importance of strong and credible defence. With this budget, the government has followed up the objective of the long-term defence plan for the first four-year period. With the next year's increase, more can be invested in submarines, maritime patrol aircraft and new artillery to the Army. We're increasing activity, and we're strengthening preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1291	This government has prioritised tax cuts as an important strategy to get people to work. They haven't been able to prove that it has produced results, but we see the result every year: to find the space for these tax cuts, it's cut into schemes that are important to people. The funding of the so-called ABE reform, which is not a reform, provides a wide range of services. That's a lot of petty cuts. Now it was about dental regulation and glasses for children. The government could have done something about it in the last round here in Stortinget, but you didn't – they survived the adjustments. In the past, there have been cuts in support schemes for multi-disabled people, in physiotherapy for victims of fire and in the AAP for young people. What's interesting is next year's perspective statement, where the government announces that it's about how to secure room for new tax cuts. We remember from 2013 that the goal of the Progress Party was to cut 100 billion. kr in tax. You haven't gotten there. You're 25 billion. Now kr. My question to the Prime Minister is, where is it she sees that the big cuts are going to come on the expenditure side, and how far does she think she's going to go in the effort to cut the taxes of those who have the most, in the years that come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1299	Our message of perspective is about securing our welfare society for the future, ensuring that it is sustainable, that it contributes to social sustainability, to economic sustainability, and not least to environmental sustainability. We have to have companies that have positive numbers that don't have red numbers that can't afford to invest in new technology, can't afford to invest in their people, don't have the ability to do the transformation that we have to if we're going to achieve our goals. This is why we have reduced, for example: corporation tax. I record that the Workers' Party has been for almost everything, but not everything. This means that the Workers' Party must also believe that tax cuts contribute to more jobs. Why else has the Labour Party spent tens of billions just on the tax cuts and on it, unless they also believe that there is a dynamic effect of it? I believe it. I think you can afford to invest in new technology and invest in your people if you're left with more in the business. That's why I'm also because we have reductions in taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1306	There are questions about what taxes, and how to do it. We don't give tax cuts to those who earn the most. In our arrangement, people with less than 750,000 kroner of income get equal to or less tax. My invitation to the Prime Minister is the following – with the big shifts we're going through in the 2020s, we're going to convert and invest in green industries, we're going to make a big leap in Defence: Can she say, I guess, how much she thinks tax cuts are part of that strategy? And where does she intend to take the cuts in the welfare state that is also going to face major challenges? An important way to cover the incomes of our society is to get people to work. The proportion of us who work is still lower than what it was. Several tens of thousands would be working if we got back to the level we were at in 2008. Then the question is, is there further tens of billions in cut to those with the most to create those changes, or are there other strategies that are better?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1315	Norwegian businesses mainly consist of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular those which employ people. A lot of them are privacy. The scheme of the Workers' Party is a systematic and targeted taxing of Norwegian ownership. It affects small and medium-sized enterprises. It affects the companies that actually create jobs for the future. We have a different policy for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is about ensuring that we solve the challenges facing technology companies, with better option taxation, so that they can develop. We have stimulated and doubled the instrument for research and development on industrial instruments, and in addition we have provided better tax framework conditions. All of this is important to make sure that we actually have enough jobs in the future, while at the same time being able to qualify people for the jobs that are coming. But the Labour Party policy is a foreign ownership policy, against Norwegian ownership, for large enterprises, against small enterprises. I mean we need both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1322	I want to remind you of 2013. With the wealth tax we had when we gave up government responsibility, Norway had high employment, we created thousands of new jobs – most in the private sector – and we were a competitive country to start businesses in. Something must have happened along the way. We've been against the cuts in property taxes. The Prime Minister would abolish the property tax, but stopped at 0.85 p.m., so it is clear that it can live with 0.85 p.m. Then you can't have 1.1 pst. be a disaster. My question concerns the 2020 strategy. Internationally — in countries by country — we see that the policy of cutting taxes in the way the government has done does not prove to have demonstrable results. It is of great importance to the income of what is to be done on welfare. Are these tax cuts becoming a key strategy for the 2020s? Is that the way we're going to convert? Is that the way we're going to get the climate change? Is that the way we're going to make sure that new businesses get up? Or are there other instruments that are needed more, that can be better documented and that other countries have also experienced?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1331	We have a range of tools to ensure that we have more jobs in Norway. The fact that we have raised our infrastructure investments by 80 pst is an important part of it. Transport costs have been too high in Norway. We have to get costs down. Labour markets need to grow. The fact that we have doubled the appropriations for economic instruments related to research and development is also linked to the fact that we can develop more products, that businesses can develop further. When we've increased significantly to Enova and the purposes of the green shift, and made sure to finance many of the major projects, it's also because we understand that being a pilot at first can be demanding for some, but at the same time we have to hope that the market can bear many of these solutions in the future. Then we have to make sure that all companies in Norway can also be involved in the development of profits that they can invest with. Tax is then one of several important instruments. Our commitment is a combination of knowledge, competence, investment in Norwegian society and better framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1336	The trade deficit, the trade balance, in Norway, in 2013 was minus 152 billion. kr. The last whole year, in 2018, it was minus 252 billion. So kr, that's 100 billion. That's a lot worse. It's a fact. That's the result. So Finance Minister Siv Jensen is trying to get on some weird crunch in terms of fees, today, and I can see that she wants to explain her policy, because charges are going to be very wrong socially. Those with low and regular incomes are hit hardest by increasing the level of taxation for the many and tax cuts more targeted for a few. Erna Solberg is in favour of the answer that the government sent to Stortinget earlier this fall, where it was summarised by the Ministry of Finance that the level of fees had increased by about 6.3 billion. in 2020-kroner, or does Prime Minister Erna Solberg believe that the Ministry of Finance has misinformed the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1343	I have no reason to doubt any answers. Now I haven't read exactly that answer, but there are many answers that go to Stortinget from the Ministry of Finance, and that are correct. The question is whether the representative correctly reproduces this given the context in which he places it. Let me give an example of the context used by the representative, Mr Vedum, in this debate. First, he goes to the frontal attack that the country has become more oil dependent because I should have said that we should spend less oil money – I remember that we spent just as much oil money as the red-green before we got into government, so I have hardly said that. What I said was that we were going to be less oil dependent by making sure to build up other parts of the Norwegian economy. Now, when we see that there's a smaller part of mainland Norway's economy that's driven by oil demand, it's a sign that it's actually moving forward. But we're not on target. This is going to take many years. We need to build much stronger robustness. As he continues to talk about the trade deficit, he ends up in Coca Cola. Excuse me, but Coca Cola doesn't provide improvements in the trade balance with the rest of the world. I don't think it's Coca Cola we can live off after the oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1350	This shows how easily Prime Minister Erna Solberg is sometimes in his answers. Prime Minister Solberg should know, if she looks at industrial investment in Norway, that the industrial sector in which it is most invested is the food industry. It is the heaviest mainland industry we have in Norway. Of course, it is also important to have a large domestic market – one should not underestimate the heaviest industry even if we sell to the Norwegian market thanks to, among other things, us. has had a customs policy and a charging policy that has made sure that we have that industry in our country. Then there is a fact, regardless of whether Prime Minister Erna Solberg likes it or not, that the trade deficit has been greatly exacerbated during Erna Solberg's year. It was in 2013 at 152 billion. SEK, and that was in 2018 at 252 billion. kr. So it's going to be 100 billion. kr lower, and it is estimated to increase by about 20 billion. kr to this year. After Erna Solberg's eight years in government, the trade deficit is likely to double. That's the result. When the trade balance goes wrong, the Prime Minister must away from the celebrations that we have become less oil dependent. In terms of fees, it's not tricking with numbers, it's her finance minister trying to get away from that number. Under Prime Minister Erna Solberg, the fees have increased by 6.3 billion. kr, and it hits ordinary people very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1357	The two largest export industries in Norway are oil and gas, which are kept outside the export surplus or trade balance of mainland Norway, and the oil supplier industry. We had a fall in the 2014 oil price that stopped the production of oil around the world, which had great consequences for shipyards and shipping. As a result, shipyards in Norway are still struggling, which means that our trade balance is unbalanced. That's why we established security arrangements, which are still there. It's easy to mention numbers, but sometimes we have to go behind the numbers and ask, what industries? What's the reason? So it's about the trade balance based on mainland Norway, not a question of oil dependence or not, especially at a time when the service industries of the oil have also suffered quite a fall because of the oil price drop.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1362	The inequality of power and wealth is increasing in Norway, and one thing that this harvest has remained as a symbol of the government's policy of difference is the unsocial cut in support of glasses for children who need it. It is a matter that has been handled with errors on the part of this government – a false impression that the money went to expensive confiscations, the impression was made by the Prime Minister himself, a false impression that this had professional support, something the opticians had to say, a false impression that the new boundaries the government has set are actually adapted to the needs of the families. The truth is that many families are at risk of getting a huge bill, and that the cut has triggered great resistance. This government is the government of the economic elite, and I think that the inopularity of the sitting government can really be summed up well in the following questions: Why does Erna Solberg have such incredibly good advice when the upper class asks for tax cuts, while she has poor advice when the families of children who need glasses ask to keep the support?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1367	I am concerned that in the future there are jobs and jobs in Norway. That is why I am concerned that we have a tax and tax system that helps to stimulate new jobs. That's why we've increased the property tax on housing and property, but on working capital we've reduced it. It's one of the things we've done in this government to make sure we get more jobs. One of the wrong impressions that has been made in the spectacle lead battery is that there are some people who have received the state's spectacle support who are not going to get the state's spectacle support. Anyone who has previously received the state's support for spectacles will continue to receive the state's support for spectacles in accordance with these rules. But it's going to be a normal pair of glasses. Information has also been provided that if the glasses are broken, the parents must out with more. No, if the glasses get broken, you get new glasses. A normal system has been set up for this. For the group that is particularly weak and needs special glass, there is another system, which Nav supports. But the vast majority of children in Norway who need glasses do not get support at all and have never received it. The parents have to pay for that, and the representative Audun Lysbaken has never suggested anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1381	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1386	The representative Tajik gave a broad review of the Workers' Party's alternative budget, which has clear objectives: Cut climate change emissions and create new jobs reducing economic differences between people developing the well-being of all, wherever you live; Speakers from the Labour Party will elaborate on this in this debate. I would like to address a matter that has ringing effects in our country. The Storting is now dealing with a modern legal scandal in the Nav case. The aim of the Workers' Party is to help to get to the bottom of this matter. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has asked a number of questions. The question of trust will be settled when we receive an answer to our questions. But we make a big mistake if we isolate the Nav case for a misinterpretation of an EEA regulation, because the Nav case is at the same time a story about how too many people become powerless in dealing with a large system – about ordinary people who experience unfair rules, incomprehensible information and lack of follow-up. We hear countless stories from different sectors about people who don't get the help they need – yes, help and care that they actually need. We hear about parents who care for their own children and don't get the relief they're entitled to, families who have to fight to get good enough special education for their child, and we hear about patients who don't get drugs that will prevent the worst migraine attacks. At the same time, public sector employees in our great welfare society, those who provide the welfare state with security to ensure that they are deeply frustrated. Police say they don't get to do their job, they don't get to be out there close to people in the community, where the police have to be visible. Hospital staff say they spend hours per hour on reporting, and that they don't use the competence where it's needed the most, together with the patients. And Nav employees, to get back there, feel that they're tied to hands and feet, and that they lack time and space to find sensible solutions for the users. It was a Nav trust committee who said it this way: I have gone from being a professional to being a production worker. The most important thing is to make the most of the decisions. There shall be 8,5 decisions per day. Numbers, not subjects, are presented in the meetings. There's a pattern here that should bother us, for common to these stories are: lack of involvement of employees lack of the ability of professionals to exercise their profession and to express themselves freely; ever more reporting, control and paperwork Tripartite cooperation and involvement – which we are proud of in our business life – take place less in the public sector. And in sum, and most seriously: this provides worse services to people. It weakens the welfare state and increases the differences between us. It cannot be that those who need the most well-being society must have to fight hard — and in too many cases in vain — to get help. The system shall never become more important than the individual human being. The Government’s public sector plan, the so-called red tape and efficiency reform, or the ABE reform, is an action that does not deserve the word reform. It's about something as simple as cut in welfare, because it's not like there's a bunch of faceless and redundant bureaucrats out there that can be held away. ABE is flat, unpriority cut, to all – cut off services, cut off employees: judges, prison officers, nurses. For the sake of order, they have faces, and they have tasks in front of the people who need their services. We must take this seriously when we create budgets and plans. Norway may have the best public sector in the world, which is good for society as a whole and for the private sector as well. We need a new course. The Labour Party wants trust reform, public sector governance based on closeness to users, respect for professionals and involvement of employees. More time and trust in employees will provide better services, so that all users get the help they need, and perhaps increase the chance of getting better or getting a job. Yes, that must be a priority. Yes, sometimes it has to be cut. But this is about different social views, and it's about money and priorities. In our alternative budget, we show that we are prioritizing our common well-being. Those with the highest income and wealth need to contribute more, so that there are more teachers, more skilled workers, more nurses, more policemen and more judges – in order for professionals to have more room to do their job, and for people throughout the country to have a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1437	The representative Gahr Støre used large parts of his post to criticise the way Nav is organized, and that there was a lack of time for the users. Then it's a little funny that the Workers' Party is proposing to cut SEK 1.8 billion. kr in consulting in the country, where most of this goes to digitisation – a large part of it goes to Nav – to make work easier and to give more time to users. It's not on your fingertips. But there is also a lot of other things in this budget that don't. The working party says one thing and does another. They criticised, for example: that the unemployed are not paid the holiday money, but have not paid one penny for it in their own budget. They criticise the state for taking over the tax collection, but they use the 86 million we save. They're against the ABE reform, as we heard, but they spend all the money. In addition, we see that SV, MDG and Red will increase taxes by between 20 billion. kr and 40 br. kr, and the Working Party will increase by 10 br. kr to next year. How much are the taxes going to increase if Jonas Gahr Støre is going to form a government with the left side?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1444	We're answering for our budget. When we do not prioritize tax cuts, that is a priority. One, seven, bn. kr in consulting aid is about the government's entry into the ABE-cut. How much does the state spend on that kind of consulting aid? 28 B.C.E. kr per year. There's increased quite a lot under this government. They're using 3 billion. kr on information assistance in the ministries. Well, a cut of $1.7 billion. kr – you can do it. This government defends cutbacks to the weakest – those with glasses, those with dental regulation, those who become unemployed, those who are sick. They'll have to take care of that while they can't handle a 1.8-billion-dollar cut. NOK 28 billion. NOK in consulting aid. That's a priority. And then we don't hit the courts, we don't hit the hospitals, we don't hit the police with flat cuts – we don't prioritise them between them. It's cowardly to cut that way. That's Victor Norman's word, and now I'm making them mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1453	The representative Gahr Støre said in his post that he disagreed with the government's cut, but had to accept that it had to be cut occasionally. The government has proposed cutting the specific arrangements for refugees in this state budget and also increasing the requirement for living for some social security rights, for both refugees and immigrants in general. This is cut to strengthen the working line, so that more people will get to work, and that it will not appear more lucrative in Norway, that we have better arrangements than other countries, and the unfairness that people perceive that refugees will have access to rights that others must be members of the population for 40 years in order to get. Then my question to the representative Gahr Støre is: why is it so important for the Workers' Party to maintain special arrangements for refugees that are far better than anyone else can achieve, and also to ensure increased living requirements for immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1460	I say as it is said: I am pleased with that question. The reason why we do that is because we want to see these people one place – at work. These are people who, like the representative and I, have not had the opportunity to build up pension rights through a long professional life. They come from flight, war and misery to our country. We're going to get them to work fast. What the government does is not get these people to work, but to cut down the path of social assistance, to cut down the path of inactivity. If the representative is looking to do something that's fair on the pension, then vote for the pension from the first penny. If you are to do something about rights that are unsocial and keep people out of work: join in and cut the cash support, for which I understand the Progress Party is really for, but which they are in this government. We want refugees in work, we want to cut the time they have to be inactive, we want them to work, so that they can be contributors and taxpayers and live worthwhile lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1467	I am reasonably overconfident that the representative Gahr Støre has agreed that we are living at a time that requires more mandatory international cooperation, not less. He also called for – given that they receive multiples once in the future – a commitment to cooperation with the Centre Party and SV, two parties that cut the EEA quota in their alternative budgets, in the aid effort, to NATO. Today we have a political plurality and a Prime Minister who is just active drivers of more international cooperation, who does not want Norway to be himself enough, who takes international responsibility. Can the representative Gahr Støre confirm to me that the Labour Party and he agree that this work must be applauded is not actively countered?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1472	The representative knows the Workers' Party, he knows me too. The working party is on the EEA Agreement, is on NATO membership, is committed to cooperation. We were eight years in government with the two mentioned parties. We took the lead responsibility. But can I recommend that the representative go and see himself in the mirror? His party is in government with a party that has raised doubts about the existence of man-made climate change, which they must fight against every day in order to carry out the most important tasks of this society, namely to cut greenhouse gas emissions, create new jobs and implement the green shift, and which must be passed on in that respect. When the representative can stand in that spaghetti, I can tell you that the international agreements we have concluded, for which there is a broad majority in this house, and for which there is a broad majority in this people, I am very sure that the Workers' Party will also implement in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1479	The representative Gahr Støre has responded well to some of the more diffuse cuts that the Workers' Party has created. We could have spent more time on them, but I want to spend a little bit of time on one of the concrete cuts that the Labour Party has in its alternative budget, which actually shows a priority. It's that the Labour Party cuts down 260 million. kr in the one-time benefit. There is an aid scheme at birth which is not entitled to parental leave. Where others in society can be supported by the corresponding annual salary, they end up with a one-time benefit, which fortunately has increased over the last few years, and in which the Labour Party is now cutting. This is not just a cut that will affect those who have the least, this is a cut that will happen to some of the families that have the least. Why does the Labour Party believe that this is a right priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1484	The measures that get people, young people in different stages of life, to choose to have children, to be at home and to be safe with it are many. It's about good leave arrangements, it's about security of your own income. The Labour Party has entered into this budget in order to increase child-restraint. It's been silent for years. This government has taken the initiative, we've been involved in that promise. In addition, we have a wide range of schemes in which to help people to be flexible, so that they can cope with the years with young children, combine good care for themselves and theirs and then get into work. But there are others, more important, raising in this regard. An arrangement that the representative strongly supports, the cash support, withholds and makes the transition more difficult. It is more important to put the effort there, to get people to work, than to spend the money in the way the representative calls for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1490	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1495	It is a pleasure to be able to debate a budget submitted by a civil majority government. After a good six-year period of cooperation with budgetary agreements, we have achieved an offensive and good budget from a civil majority government. Following the presentation of the budget, the four government parties have captured recordings at hearings and agreed on some transfers of amounts in the Storting. For the right, it has been important that the Storting should not be a post office that only adopts the draft budget without changes, as it was for eight years under the red-green. So we moved almost ten times as much as the red-green used to move on. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. The availability is low, and jobs are created all over the country. If we are to maintain our high level of prosperity, we must also ensure high value creation in the private sector in the future. In the next few years, we will be entering a period of higher public expenditure as a result of our ageing. Therefore, we need to give priority to measures that facilitate the creation of more profitable jobs. We've reduced the taxes on businesses, so they can invest more and create more jobs. The traffic budget has now increased by 80 pst. since 2013. In 2019, 102 km of quadruple road will be opened, which is more than the total length of the motorway network in 1990, which was only 73 km. This helps to link the whole country together and reduce costs for business. And we've had a shift in research after the rest cut under the red-green. The Norwegian economy is within its third year of boom. Freedom goes down, and growth goes up. Activity is increasing throughout the country and in most industries. In the last year, more than 50,000 more people have come to work, 40,000 of them in the private sector. The registered unemployment rate has fallen to levels we have not seen since 2008. Several formerly out of the labour market are now at work, and the employment rate has increased. This shows that the government's policy is working. The last time we had an upturn, the jobs went largely to work immigrants. This time we want to use the good times to include more in the labour market. This is why the government has launched a large-scale inclusion process and developed a new integration strategy. When the proportion of the population who are in pre-employment becomes lower, we have to make sure that several of the people who can work get a job to do. When the oil price fell in 2014, the government was quick to take measures to support the industries and areas most affected by the downturn. Now that the growth of the economy has risen and we are in a period of solid growth in the Norwegian economy, the government has retained its fiscal policy, in line with the rule of action. Over the last three years, government budgets have been around neutral in the economy. In the conversion we're facing, it's not only important what we spend the money on, but also that we get the most out of each of the heads. That is why we are implementing the necessary reforms. New roads are created to build smarter and faster. It is expected to reduce the cost of the country by about 20 billion. kr for all projects in their portfolio. Outsourcing on the railways offers better offers to travellers and 8 billion euros. kr in lower costs for the country over the next 10 years. The ABE reform, which we have just discussed, has saved more than 10 billion dollars. kr since 2015. These are resources that we've been able to re-prioritize for other purposes. Our task is to give up the welfare society in better condition than we received it. We do that by focusing on knowledge and competence, green transition where we stop emissions and not development, and an industrial policy that facilitates job creation. That is why I am pleased that today we are adopting a budget that supports this. While government parties have agreed on seven consecutive state budgets, the situation is different among the opposition parties. They don't agree on anything, except that the taxes are going up. The centre party has gone high on the track and promised lower charges. The problem is that they're dependent on parties that promise the opposite. The Labour Party will increase taxes and taxes by 9 billion. kr, while the Greens propose a 22 billion increase in fees. kr. All in all, there's such a big gap in the opposition that it's going to be exciting to see how they can at all talk together and find common solutions. We've shown over the years in government that we're capable of finding each other. We are able to keep track of the Norwegian economy, and we are able to contribute to what is most important, namely to lay the foundation for a sustainable welfare state where everyone is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1525	Now I listened carefully to hear if the representative of Greece affected an important part of the welfare community, namely Municipality-Norway. He didn't, so I'll give him an opportunity to elaborate on it. In the state budget for 2020, the government has presented the worst municipal structure any government has made in the last 15 years. The government gives triple messages to municipalities – low income growth combined with non-funding extras and new tasks, and there are some limitations in the possibility of taxing property. We see the consequences across the country. Arendal municipality must cut by 100 million. kr in its budget, which affects important welfare services for people living in the municipality. In the newly established Kinn municipality, it has to be cut about 80 million. kr. There, they cut positions at school and postpone necessary investments, including an important welfare offer. In East Finland, municipalities have to cut to 110 million. kr, it affects the welfare of people living there. Why does the Right believe that it is right to feed Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1534	I had the pleasure of sitting with the representative Sivertsen in the municipal committee, and I think the Labour Party was in charge, and then I remember that there were a lot of Norwegian municipalities on the so-called ROBEK list. It was a bad community economy. It was such that even though the Workers' Party was overthrown, it was the Workers' Party rapporteurs who said that this is too bad, that more had to bet on the municipalities. We have had a strong commitment to the municipal sector for several years now, while we have managed to keep track of the economy. As I said in my post, the availability goes down, the tax revenue goes up, also in Norwegian municipalities. What's the result? Well, the result, as the representative Sivertsen can read out of the statistics, is that there have never been as few municipalities in the ROBEK register as it is now. We are doing well in Norwegian municipalities. It's a shame the Workers' Party is going to try and talk down that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1541	I am just as happy as the representative of Greece that there are record few municipalities in the so-called ROBEK register. I am also pleased that many municipalities in the last few years have had money left at the end of the year. What I criticize, or speak down, that the representative of Greece chooses to say, is not. What I'm talking about, to use the word of the representative of Greece, is the government's policy, because the results come despite the government's policy, not because of it. What has made large profits in municipalities are tax adjustments, pension costs lower than planned and costs lower for demography. So this is despite the government’s policy – things that the government has not planned. This has meant that you have had money left over at the end of the year because you could not plan for how to hire nurses. I will once again give the representative the opportunity to answer for the government's policy. Why does Helleland think it is right to feed Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1548	The government's policy is Norway's policy. It is the policy pursued by the government, which is adopted here today – the State budget – which is the starting point for Norwegian municipalities to deal with. So they've been doing very well in the last few years. Fewer municipalities have to be controlled by the County Council, in the ROBEK register. Norwegian municipalities are receiving increased tax revenue because fish farming is doing well, because the yard industry is doing well, because travel is doing well, because it is doing well in the industries that are district industries, which create employment, and which provide tax revenues to Norwegian municipalities. The representative Sivertsen would like to talk about his bureaucratic input into this. Our main point is to create a sustainable economy that provides welfare in Norway, and that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1553	One of the main tasks of the government is to ensure the security of people in Norway. Some of the things that are absolutely crucial to people's security is that the police come when you need help. What has been reported from police districts by police district is that there is a crisis. This also applies to the police district of which the representative of Greece is part. For example, in my own police district, East Police District, there are internal reports from the police saying that on the Nesodden, people can rarely or never expect the police to come within the scope of response time. This week the Dagbladet could reveal that while the number of police records has decreased, the number of orders with a lack of capacity has increased. How can the representative defend a police force where we do not provide for a strengthened presence locally, and where the officers of the police are warning the strongest against the police budget being presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1560	Next year, we will reach the target of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. The number of police posts has increased sharply during this government, and we have had a police reform. Of course, we should go through this police reform carefully and ensure that a follow-up is made to those points that are not on the agenda. But I want to add that we have seen a huge change in the crime scene, where much of the crime has moved into the digital world, and where abuse of children – boys and girls – takes place from their own nursery. These are things we had to deal with, which the red-green government had not taken hold of. At the same time, we have said that we need to strengthen the police throughout the country. We make sure the police patrols are on wheels more and more often than they were before. I believe that if there is a shortage here, we have to get hold of it, but the most important thing is to make sure that we have a police officer who can respond to today's crime scene.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1567	The representative of Greece says things are going well in the Norwegian economy. That's what he likes to do, but the question is, who's good for? The economic elite in this country may be doing well – it has become record billionaires, for example. – but for most others, the picture is different. For example, we have record numbers – 102,000 – of children growing up in poverty. A new SSB report shows that we have an increasing phenomenon with lonely dependants who are poor despite their being in work. Among the groups with the greatest decline in household income, we find families with children. And 130 occupational groups had a real wage drop last year, among other things. health professionals and kindergarten teachers, to name a few. So when the representative of Greece says that things are going well in the Norwegian economy, does he think that things are going well for the children who grow up in poverty, and for the families who have gotten less to walk with after this government took over?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1572	I used quite a large part of my post to talk about the development of the Norwegian economy. Last year, 50,000 new people came to work, 40,000 of them in the private sector. There weren't 50,000 billionaires, there were 50,000 ordinary people who got a job, which allows them to support the family, which allows them to lift children out of poverty. That is why inclusion and integration are now available, because we know that many of those who have come to Norway as refugees, or others, are struggling to get out of work. That is why we are focusing on a new introduction programme, which gives more language skills, which gives more professional competence, which allows us to become part of the productive and creative world of work. That's the way out of it: people have to get into work. That's what we're working on, and we're taking that job very seriously. It's not about the economic elite, it's about helping those who need it the most, and it does this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1578	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1583	A society in transition requires changeful politicians. I grew up at a time when we could only watch movies on TV on Mondays, when the Television Theatre was the only alternative on Tuesdays, and when fresh news only came on paper in the morning and in the afternoon – and on TV only in the evening. This is no longer the case – fortunately – thanks to courageous, creative individuals who dared to bet, new technology, enterprising companies and changeful politicians. Yes, not everyone has been as willing, but they have come later. The 2020 budget is a budget that facilitates people who will create values and new jobs. Norway is doing well, more people are coming to work, and investments are increasing. Businesses abroad with Norwegian owners move their business back to Norway because we have highly skilled and efficient labour, good quality of production and competitive conditions. At the same time, we have a record of the number of new enterprises established in different industries. We create more, and we treasure less. Together, the four parties on the non-socialist side have found solutions that are good for the country. The most important thing for most people is to be guaranteed equal opportunities for education, jobs and a social safety net if the need arises. This applies to everyone in today’s Norway, but at the same time we have to make demands for self-help and contribution to both our own and common benefit. This is why, among other things: the removal of special arrangements for refugees in the public interest. I grew up at a time when crime was tangible – when the thief was local, broke into the garage and stole tools, when they always brought money that was of paper and not on plastic cards, and cars could be stolen. It's not like that anymore. Crime has moved. It's better organized, it's going over the network, and it's going across national borders. Such crime is not combatable by small loner offices with limited opening hours. That is why we must reform the police and dare to give priority. A society in transition requires changeful politicians. My grandchildren will grow up at a time when cars will be self-propelled and emission-free. In Norway, we are the world's leading provider of new, zero-emission technology. The progress party has always been and must always be the party of the drivers. Premiering a vehicle with zero or low emissions is good for air quality and the surrounding environment. But electric cars also need roads. That is why we still need to build new, safe and efficient roads in combination with good collective solutions. New E18 through Asker and Bærum must be built as planned by the majority of Storting. It is difficult to trick drivers, businesses and residents in the Oslo region who have already contributed to funding for several years. The Workers' Party now has to decide: out-of-date roads or modern and environmentally intensive motorways that ensure good accessibility for public transport. It means who's in government. In this budget, the Progress Party is particularly satisfied with further cuts in property taxes and more towards road and transport. It also means who is not in government. Last weekend SV tried to invite to the red-green collection. The way in which the invitation was received, Illustrated first and foremost how small the overall opposition is. We see the same gap in the opposition's alternative budgets. The centre party will cut the fees by about the same amount as the Labour Party will increase them. SV will more than double the Labour Party's fee increase, and the Green Party doubles SV's fee increase. For most people and for business, this is more than twice as bad news. I became the parliamentary leader at a time when the Progress Party was in minority government, and when the memories we had of majority governments were from red-green time. At that time, Stortinget had to put itself firmly behind all the Councils' assessments and decisions in the budget. It's not like that anymore. Together, the four government parties have shown that we listen to recordings and hearings, we have made wise adjustments together and strengthened the police, the courts and the professions in a good budget adapted to the Norwegian economy and the challenges we face in Norway – just like the previous year – yes, actually for the seventh time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1606	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1611	The representative Limi talks a lot about everything that's going well, and how good it is that we have this government. One thing that was better before, when you had the red-green government, was optimism in North Norway. Norway is dependent on the resources to be used across the coast — yes, throughout Norway. But what's quite challenging is that in North Norway it's only in 11 out of 87 municipalities the population is increasing. If you want to develop, you have to have people to do it. Nor can it be decided that people should give birth to more children, or that people should move there. You have to wish that. The local economy is getting worse. The police won't come when you need it. The tools for business and in the study places in the districts are cut, and preparedness is weakened. It doesn't help you want to move to a place. My question to Limi is: What kind of grip does the government party want to join in to reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1622	The situation is that there's a lot of activity in North Norway. It's low unemployment. That means there's actually a lot going very well. I'm sure things can get even better. But what is important in any case for the development of that part of the country is that there is no uncertainty about what may be one of the most important livelihoods: oil and gas. It's important that we have investment in what we're going to live on in the future, which in turn attracts competence. Many of those who move are highly competent people, i.e., with a high level of education. Then it has to be organized for large activity and industrial development in the north that makes it interesting for highly educated people to both live and work in the country. But evenly, it's a very positive development. It's very low unemployment, and it's high activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1629	I'm a little bit unsure of what was really the answer here. It was just a little bit about oil and gas being important. I'm not sure if that's what it takes to get more people to North Norway. Low unemployment – yes. But the problem is that you also have a very high level of foreign labour because you have to fill the jobs if you're going to do development and growth in this part of the country. An example of the government's misunderstood understanding of North Norway and the districts is that of the district announcement to the government. They say that the wealth tax is what's going to help create growth in the districts. The last time I checked, it was such that those who enjoy a cut in the property tax live in Oslo and its surroundings. I'm not sure that's going to benefit the districts very much. So I ask again, what are the measures this government has planned to take to ensure that the population development we are now seeing will turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1636	I'd like to repeat a lot of what I said before, because the whole cloud is facilitating increased activity, creating jobs, to make it interesting for people to both live and work in the northern part of the country. And we do. We see that the activity is high, and we see that unemployment is low. The representative mentioned the readiness. Yes, a new helicopter base is being established for rescue helicopters in Tromsø. There are measures that benefit the rural community. But the most important thing for people in North Norway is that they have secure jobs, that they see new businesses set up and that they are willing to invest. I can promise that there are a lot of statistics that there has been a lot of capital moved from the districts to the central areas because it has given the best return, among other things. by means of real estate investments. A great deal of what we have done by changing the tax regime has just helped make it more attractive to invest in businesses in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1643	Government parties propose in the State budget that a clear signal be given to the closure of Norway’s largest emergency hospital. They also provide for the largest hospital investment ever in Norway — without adequate financial investigations and quality assurance of the project and for strong warnings, both from the professional community directly affected in Oslo, and from, for example, from other countries. The play association at Akershus and the play association at Ahus. The Center Party will maintain Ullevål Hospital, we will develop Aker Hospital as a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen, and we will go against the gigantic proposals for Gaustad that the government is now proposing. But we're not alone in that. At a press conference two weeks ago, three out of four government parties in Oslo set up together with a majority of the city council and said they were not supposed to be in favour of these plans. Why doesn't the Progress Party listen to its leading local health politicians in Oslo instead of overrun and commit to this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1648	We both listen and follow input from our local politicians, but at the same time we are in the situation that, as long as we sit on the Stortinget and in government, we have to make some decisions that are holistic and that benefit the entire development of Health Norway. This hospital case is not easy, and we've had many and long discussions about what's the best solution. At the same time, as long as we have the health business model, we also need to listen to the advice from our health companies who have made thorough assessments of the different options. It is not that there are only positive arguments for one or the other, but in sum we have fallen to the conclusion that the best solution for hospital provision in the Oslo region, including the least ring-fenced one for other health businesses, will be to follow the recommendation of the health company: to expand Gaustad. And what's inside the state budget is just a loan commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1653	In a financial debate, we're going to talk about money. In my field, that is, the transport sector, we manage a whole bunch of money. Under the key word "ferry-free E39", we're talking about 190 billion. kr only on these adventurous fjord crosses. The reason I'm addressing this now is that there are still new professional assessments – from the State Road Administration, from the research communities, from SINTEF, from TØI, and we're waiting for a very fresh report to be put on the table immediately. The left has signaled that they are now more or less on the SV line, with frequent zero-emission ferries as a solution to the fjord crossings. We've seen that the Center Party has begun to signal that Hordfast might need to be reconsidered, and that's a matter that's already spent almost 800 million. kr only in planning. I look at the representative Limi as one who can have a factual approach to this. Can the representative Limi answer if his party will now begin to reconsider the opinion of the Free E39?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1660	I don't think I can answer that right now, because we have a project that's adopted, that's in the NTP, and that's on the assumption that it's implemented. What I can recommend is that we should be more positive about important reforms in the transport sector, because then we can release large amounts, many billions – both through New Roads AS, where we already see the results, and through the railway reform. Only in the tender procedures that have been carried out, we might be able to save around 8 billion. kr. That means that we can take some steps that give more money to build both roads, tunnels and tracks. Whether the solution around the free E39 is mature to be reconsidered? Basically, we're not there. We believe that it should be implemented as intended. Then, of course, costs have to be assessed on an ongoing basis. There are also some delays in parts of the project, so it's a challenge. But we haven't turned around yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1668	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1673	The idea that carries the Central Party's alternative state budget is that popular governance is possible. It's that, as a big crowd, we have choices as to which direction we want the Norwegian society to take. At a time when too many people are trying to tell people that the main task of policy is to release the wheel and leave governance to the bureaucracy, the market or the EU system, the centre party stands at the opposite end. Political change can take time, and often it is faster to tear down than to build up, but political governance is possible. The main priorities of the Centre Party in this budget are clear. We choose a policy that helps balance geographical and social differences. We choose a policy that provides security in everyday life and services near people throughout the country. We choose a policy that builds up value creation across the country. And we're choosing a policy that helps to safeguard Norwegian interests in a world that's increasingly tense. All of this is because we think we have a choice, and because we think we can influence the development of society. The government seems to be of a slightly different opinion. Government parties almost seem to have gone a bit of a sport in obfuscating political choices, distorting political responsibilities, and misrepresenting the fact that the government either directly or indirectly agrees to make choices that increase social and geographical differences. In areas by region, this government centralises the public sector in Norway, but they often choose to do so through an alternate. In the closure of teacher training at Nesna, they chose to do so by decision of the board. They hid all their political responsibility behind beautiful words about autonomy. The same has happened in the police, where the whole process of centralisation has been left to the state administration, so that a political disengagement of responsibility can take place. Not a lot of imagination is needed to see that the same can happen when it comes to the hearing on putting down two thirds of the rights in Norway. Political responsibility for implementing changes is certainly transferred to others other than the government. The same is true when you centralize the ambulance service, and when you now want to lay down Ullevål hospitals. There it is the entity and the board that are given the freedom to investigate, adopt and implement as well. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the rest of the government have in a way chosen to abdicate a little political. They discharge their responsibilities and outsource the transformation and centralisation of the public sector to directorates, businesses and boardrooms. Tax policy has also been under discussion this autumn. It is an important debate. This government has made a change in tax policy by combining large tax cuts for those who have the most, with tax increases for the most part. It contributes to increased differences in Norway. In total, the government has increased the fees by 6.3 billion. NOK, and the electricity charge alone increased by 38,9 pst. since 2013. The centre party has received some criticism to raise this debate. The progress party is trying to misjudge it by constantly trying to talk about taxes and taxes, never about taxes alone. Today, even the Minister of Finance chooses to start looking at different definitions of taxes. She chooses to look only at the excise duties, not at the total fees. She suddenly chose to talk about paid taxes. At the same time, she talks about tax relief, and then she talks about tax reliefs adopted, because she knows just as well as we do that if she is to deal with taxes paid and taxes, the tax and tax levels under this government have increased significantly. Then the government can no longer talk about 25 billion. kr in tax bill. The reaction pattern when a person wants to start a debate on the effects of tax policy has been predictable and expected – and in many ways not impressive, I have to say. Both increased electricity charges, increased VAT on travel and transport and increased air passenger charges on the short-haul network are measures that are both socially and geographically distorted. Climate taxes cannot also be used in such a way that they can be overlooked if they are affected socially and geographically, because choosing such a line would weaken the legitimacy of the entire climate policy. Many suggest that several of the tax increases claimed by the government in the name of the climate do not involve a large, effective cut in climate emissions, but on the contrary it is to be seen as purely fiscal charges. The centre party is pleased that the debate on fees is stronger on the agenda now than before, but at the same time we see that there is a long way to go when the government continues to balance both the environmental profile and the budgetary needs of fiscal increases that affect everyone, regardless of their place of residence and income. After six years with the Right and Advance Party in government, we can see that the government project lacks internal cohesion and a plan for the road further, and that may not be so remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1701	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1706	From a Workers' Party point of view, there is a great deal to agree on in the Centre's budget. Although we do not always agree with the instruments, we are united in the goal of using the whole country. Cities depend on viable districts. It is in the districts we manage the natural resources that have made us such a rich country. The opposite way, the districts depend on our cities working, the cities have air to breathe in, and the bus to go. Working cities are good for the whole country. It is strange, therefore, that the Center Party cuts half a billion dollars in rewards for public transportation in cities. In Bergen, where I live, this would cut alone equivalent to 400 daily bus trips every day throughout the year. My question is therefore: does the Central Party believe that too much money is being spent on public transport in cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1713	People live their lives both in cities and across the country, and that's good; lives are lived in different ways. We want people to travel collectively, so we have e.g. also proposed to reduce VAT on public transport. We think it is important that it is cheaper to use public transport. Having said that, I must say that this government's arrangement of rewards and urban growth agreements must become a source of debate soon, for it has grown very much. In reality, the State has assumed part of the county's responsibility for public transport in a way that the centre party believes there is reason to consider. Those states that don't have a big city in their midst will be left with a much bigger bill for public transport in their area than the counties that have a big city in their midst. Public transport, including in cities, is largely a county responsibility, and I think that is a problem you have to look at further. In addition, the Centre Party believes that it is necessary to re-prioritise a part from urban growth to district growth, in order to increase rural development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1720	It's very strange in the Central Party's alternative budget. For example, they claim that they provide a tax relief where they are actually doing nothing. It was like a friend of mine said to me yesterday: that's just how you expect politicians to do. That's details. Marit Arnstad spoke in his post about social and geographical differences, and that's important. That is why I would also like to ask about the cut in the city packages of 500 million. I agree with Mr Arnstad that we should grant more to public transport throughout the country. But can the representative explain to me why inhabitants of Grorud, Åsane and Kvernevik will receive both poorer collective offers and more tolls? That is what is happening with the Central Party's alternative budget: some are getting worse offers, but at the same time they have to pay more in tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1727	I don't think it should be so much in the Central Party budget until the representative Heggelund thinks it's a little strange – so it's now his case. I believe there is a need for a debate on the urban growth agreements in the future, because this government has only chosen to cash into the urban growth agreements and said that now we, as a state, are going to take over 66 pst. the costs of urban public transport. I mean one then intervenes in a system where initially the county municipalities are responsible for public transport, and that one chooses a different line towards the big cities than what one does to the rest of the country. At least it deserves a discussion. In addition, the Central Party wants to take part in the increase in urban growth agreements – because we do not go down, we also have a large increase in urban growth agreements – and re-prioritises urban growth agreements, because we see that there is a very great need for this government’s centralisation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1736	It is with great disappointment that I have read that the Central Party in its alternative budget proposes to remove the National Older Ombudsman and proposes to wind up the scheme of state-funded care for the elderly, which has had great success in several municipalities. My question to the representative Arnstad is: What will she say to all the municipalities that experience good results with state-funded care for the elderly, what will she say to the head of the unit at Hobøl Senior Citizens' Homes, who says that they experience greater equality between users, what will she say to the head of the local government in Lillesand, who says that they experience increased quality of services, what will she say to the councillor in Os, who says that they experience greater equality between users, what will she say to the head of the Stjørdal department, who says that they experience professional development and greater economic muscles, and, last but not least, what will she say to the many older people who experience better quality of their services after they have entered this project with government-funded care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1743	We will tell all municipalities that we are going to fund the care of the elderly through framework transfers to the municipalities. And in the case of the framework transfers, we're at a level that's sky high above government; we're at 2.2 billion. kr over the government of framework transfers. It's within the framework transfers we want to fund the care of the elderly. As far as the state experiment is concerned, I believe that part of the municipalities involved in this experiment know that these funds are intended to be phased out towards 2023, and that they have also prepared for it. I know that at least my municipality of residence, Stjørdal, has prepared for it. That's why I don't have to tell the manager of Stjørdal, but I can assure my sister, who's in the presidency, that we're going to contribute to a good care for the elderly in Stjørdal in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1750	The centre party likes to represent itself as a district party and a party that stands up for a completely decisive district industry, agriculture – an industry that puts itself in charge of managing the garden and land in such a way that one leaves the use in a better constitution for the next generation than what was the case when one took over. Climate change and extreme weather make the important job that the farmer does, both harder and more expensive, and the changes escalate in strength to the worse of years. What is the answer from the Center Party to that? Well, a climate policy, or a lack of something like that, goes backwards into the future. For how does the representative Arnstad explain that reducing user charges on petrol and diesel, providing more industries with exemptions from CO 2 taxes and cutting reward funds for urban collective investment reduce greenhouse gas emissions and prevent extreme weather and make jobs easier for future farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1762	It's quite right that the Senterparte thinks food production is very important, and we want all of the cultivated areas we have to be able to use for food production. We also want Norway, i.e. grass production in Norway, to be strong in the years to come. We know that agriculture will be affected by climate change, and climate adaptation in agriculture is an important work. It is also the case that agriculture must take its share of greenhouse gas emissions. Greenhouse gas emission cuts are also very important. That's why the Center Party has, among other things, in this budget, a climate fund was proposed for agriculture, in order to convert agricultural assets and farming modes in a climate-friendly manner. We believe that this type of positive instrument is much more important than trying to increase fuel taxes in a way that is not known to have climate impact, but it is largely just acting as a fiscal tax increase to get more money into the treasury and try to balance the money needs of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1772	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1777	The most beautiful thing about Norway is small differences and strong communities. At its best, our society is built for the many and not for the few on top. That's how we got a working life where no one was supposed to stand in the hand, so we got a tax system that worked so that with the widest shoulders they would carry the heaviest burdens, and so we got a welfare state that would be a safety net for people, but also make sure that everyone's abilities could be put into use, and that everyone should have an opportunity to live out their dreams, not just the richest's children – a society for the many, not for the few at the top. Now, the question is whether we should build Norway for the future in the same way, or whether we should follow the course that the sitting government has set out, where you increasingly listen to the needs of the few at the top, instead of to the many. Is that how we're going to face the increasing inequality of power and wealth? Is that how we're going to meet the climate crisis? In meeting these two key issues of our time, it is more than ever vital to mobilise solidarity, trust and cohesion in Norwegian society. That is why, in the years to come, we must combine strong and radical climate and environmental policies with a solidarity and fair redistribution policy. In the SV's alternative state budget, we are starting work on a green new deal for Norway, a social contract that can make it possible to implement the climate policy needed in a fair manner. We're proposing 11.5 billion. kr more for climate and environmental measures than the government grants. We do so in confidence that the demand that is now emerging from below in the Norwegian society for action against the climate crisis will not be possible. We last saw this week that the voters are now saying that climate policy is the most important thing for the people. Migration must begin now, but Norway lacks a plan for how to do so. Green new deal responds both to the concerns of climate-stripping young people, which all those who want to act against the climate crisis feel, and to the concerns of workers who have their jobs linked to the oil – and to the concerns of people with low incomes who are afraid that the benefits will end up with those who have the most, and the bill goes to people who have little. We need a social plan to cut emissions, so that we can achieve the Norwegian climate targets in 2030, to preserve jobs through large-scale investment in green industry and industry, and for a fair transition, where, at the time of climate change measures, we can also turn off socially, make sure to compensate people through what we in SV call a 'green folk bonus'. In our draft budget, a 'green people' bonus means that, while some environmental taxes have to increase, we use the tax system to make it more widely distributed, so that ordinary people and people with low incomes get better. That's the opposite of the government that's rigged the tax system for the rich. We are proposing in this budget – and this will certainly continue to oversell the right side – strong tax increases for those who have the most in Norwegian society. It is necessary, because the wealth of those who have the most has not come of their own accord. It is built on the competence and efforts of workers across the country, it is built on the infrastructure and education system financed by taxpayers. No one becomes rich by himself. Norway is also built on work, not on inheritance. Norway is dependent on people who want to make their money at work, not just those who can make their money on having money. When the inequalities increase and the government at the same time leads a differential policy that sends parts of the bill to those who have the least, I think it more than anything else can answer why this government is so unpopular. That is why, in this budget, we are committed to reversing unsocial cuts, for example. the rather dirty cut in the child’s spectacle support and the cut in dental regulation. We are committed to strengthening the community economy, investing in hospitals, dental care, on a more practical day at school, in child welfare and in kindergartens, because we can afford better welfare if we have different priorities. We do that within a total framework where we spend less oil money than the government. It is possible to redistribute from those who have the most, to ordinary people, and from increasing private consumption to the community – if we want, and if we want to pursue a policy that is for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1796	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1801	SV's alternative budget cutters over 2 billion. kr for construction of new and better roads, or motorways, which SV like to call it. In the VG, the Lighthouse presented a 450-billion-billion cut list. for road construction – most of them in the districts. Of these, 220 billion is. Cut in North Norway. New E39 in the West, with mainland connections for the local population, often refers to SV as a senseless waste of money. In a few years we will have zero-emission transport in Norway. The climate argument goes away, but there may still be good reasons to reduce urban traffic. My question is: why does SV think it is wise to bet on public transport and subsidise increased mobility of people in cities, but it is not wise to bet on road construction that increases the mobility of people in the districts? Is SV no longer concerned with equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1806	That question is totally wrong, and I think the representative really knows that. SV is for a redistribution of means of transport, and the play that the representative mentions was about how we, by moving to a more sobering standard of road development than the violent investment in four fields that the government has gone through, can get roads where it is needed around the country, for a cheaper money than the government is in favour of. The government is now about to meet the wall itself with its giant E39 project, which people in the West do not want. There is now a growing alliance between nature conservationists, professional drivers and truck owners against, for example: Hordfast in my state. It's an unpopular project, which the government insists on spending huge amounts of money on. What we'd rather do is spend money on safe routes of use with racial protection around the West and North Norway. I think people agree more with me than with the representative Finstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1813	Think that SV will wind up Nye Veier, the company that has revolutionised the way we build our roads in this country, which ensures faster road construction, less tolls, and that – when the entire portfolio is completed – has saved Norwegian taxpayers for 28 billion. kr. Not only do they build faster and cheaper, they also take great social responsibility – demand that entrepreneurs have 20 pst. with apprentices, limited number of sub-contractors. Yes, they even have a LO coordinator out in every project to ensure that the employees get what they are entitled to. The Progress Party will definitely continue New Roads and give them more projects. It's about the security of everyday life for all those who can't go to work and can't go to kindergarten, all those who have to deal with the road – for the most part. What I'm asking you about SV, which will now strangle the allocations to New Roads by 1.4 billion. kr, cut a quarter of all the projects they have, are they doing it because they don't like companies that achieve success, or is it just because they don't envy us safe roads in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1822	I said in my previous answer what SV will do to ensure that we get safe roads in Norway, which is far more reasonable than the progress of the party on large motorways towards the big cities. We want safe ways of using yellow stripe around the country. If you distribute the money better, you can provide security for more people in more places than the government puts up to. There is no secret that the kind of dual organisation that New Weger involves has been skeptical of the SV and the rest of the opposition. There's something about this government's belief in creating many parallel structures, organizations and administrations that I think it's hard to imagine should be effective in the long run. We also don't know how it would have been if you, for example, had allowed the Road Service to use the same methods that New Roads have been allowed to use. Reconnaissance is good. There's certainly a lot we can learn from the way this is done, but we don't have to create ever-new organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1829	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1834	For the Left, freedom is a superior value; freedom to realize it defines itself as the good life for itself and its closest. Should freedom be real, one must also be free from poverty, distress and inequality. And if in one area the freedom of future generations is really threatened, it's in the climate and the environment. Man-made climate change is the biggest problem facing the world. Extreme weather is getting more and more normal, atmospheric CO 2 content being record high. Being closed down by reducing enough greenhouse gas emissions, and quickly enough, is entirely decisive. The left is fundamental future-optimistic. However, it requires that we make the right choices now: that we end up with what we're working on, that we're developing new solutions, and that we're strengthening, and that we're creating the changes that need to be made. increasing investment in research and technology development, playing with industry and using market forces to promote the climate that we reduce the price of what we want more of: climate-friendly choices in everyday life and in the boardroom that we set up the price of what we want less of: greenhouse gas emissions and impurities The left believes in anthropogenic climate solutions, and Norway, the Norwegian industry and technology and the Norwegian research community all have the will not only to take global responsibility, but to do so in a way that ensures and facilitates green value creation and Norwegian workplaces. For this reason, I am proud that the Left and the other government parties today adopted a State budget for 2020 that reinforces one that is already a major systematic commitment to climate action and technology. Major back-up schemes in the direction of Enova, schemes that hit both the big industry and the household, get record breaks. The new State Investment Fund Nysnø Climate investment will receive a total of 700 million. have, in record time, passed the billion in management capital. Nysnø has as its main goal the need to fill the existing industry has for a co-investor who has enough and long-term enough capital to ensure that green technology comes from the laboratory, the testing stage, to an industrialised, commercial product. It shall do so through a combination of direct investment and through fund-in-fund investments, as well as ensuring that we have several major investors competent to enter into often complex, long-term investments. In spring, there was an alarming report from the nature panel to the UN on a alarming pace in the reduction of natural and species declines. If we change nature so much that species die out, we also cut evolutionary lines – lines that are important raw materials for further evolution and future freedom. Therefore, the focus on classical environmental protection in the budget is entirely decisive. Taking me with migration, it represents together with climate and environment, three areas that require more international cooperation in order for the world to be closed together in managing them. At a time when major powers such as the United States and the United Kingdom have political leaders who are the drivers of unhealthy and directly dangerous nationalism, it is more important than ever that a rich, well-organized country such as Norway takes responsibility and is a driver of more committed cooperation, not less. If we are to prevent large-scale involuntary migration in the future, we are forced to close down quickly enough to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, the fight against poverty and poverty must continue and intensify. I am therefore pleased that the Left is part of a government and a collaboration with record bets on assistance and measures to raise more people out of life-threatening situations, including: a record high aid budget and receipt of 3 000 quota refugees. And unlike most of the opposition parties, the government parties have the power to finance the necessary investments through real re-priorities, a responsible use of oil money and a tax policy that prioritises them with the lowest wages, and to make Norwegian jobs cheaper. That's good for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1867	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1872	Prime Minister Erna Solberg claimed that she would make Norway less oil dependent, so-called convert the economy. But the freshest figures from the SSB show that our country is now getting the biggest deficit in trade with the rest of the world when we correct for petroleum, and the deficits have steadily worsened all the six years under Erna Solberg. Her answer is that it takes too long. It doesn't just take too long, it takes too long, and that's one of the reasons why we have to replace the government. It's a spectacular lifting breach, and the deficit this year is worth 270,000 million. kr. What is Terje Breivik's explanation of why the deficit has been steadily exacerbated every year, and how this spectacular lifting breach has arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1878	Perhaps the most important thing that happened when we got a new multi-annual autumn 2013, a completely different investment in this country in innovation, innovation, transformation and green growth. After the Left came to power in the autumn of 2013, by being a so-called constructive opposition party through a cooperation agreement, we have systematically contributed to a completely different pace of just bet on conversion and making Norway less oil dependent in the future. In my main post, I mention one of the last steps, Nysnø Climate investment, which is a completely new large-scale state investment fund that is just about to help secure also the supplier industry that works against the oil industry, faster pace in an already existing conversion to get more legs on, bones that have green signs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1883	The speech of the results, the official numbers, is clear, it's going too weak, it's actually going in the wrong direction, that's what's my point, and it's been going in the wrong direction for six years in a row. In Stortinget, we in the Labour Party have made concrete proposals on strengthening sea winds as a separate industry, which Norway can become strong on the supplier side of – that is what the right parties are against. We have proposals for the forest industry and a stepping-up plan for safe food production on Norwegian resources – all proposals that the right-wing parties are voting against. When the policy is only negative to all the good proposals that are coming, does the representative Terje Breivik believe that the deficits will continue to be even worse during Erna Solberg's coming year in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1890	I'm completely overconfident that there's a premise that this plurality will continue after 2021, just to maintain a perfectly necessary pace. Again, the representative mentions two sectors, the maritime sector — sea wind — and the forest industry, which now have completely different framework conditions than they were in the vicinity of before 2013. Take the forest industry, as the representative knows very well: thank you for a completely different objective, a completely different deliberate commitment to biofuels, has now suddenly been given a new gift in the Norwegian forest industry, in Norwegian biofuel production, and quite different prospects for very important forests. When it relates to the maritime sector, the last thing that happened was that Enova went in – I don't think about the sum of money, but it was well 2.2 to 2.3 billion. kr – just to build a new future offshore wind farm based on floating sea wind turbines, which can both be good for the production of new energy and on which it is not least crucial for the supplier industry to have a home market to drive technology development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1895	The representative, Mr Breivik, is talking about the government running a responsible economic policy. Yes, this is done, among other things. by adding a full levy on biodiesel. The representative Breivik also talks about the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions quickly, we are fully in agreement about this, but the government's tax approach is thus at risk of increasing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector by 700,000 tonnes next year. Now, Breivik will probably claim the same thing as the Prime Minister did earlier in this Chamber, that this is done to reduce the use of palm oil. But the use of palm oil falls already – two thirds down only last year. Why does the Left want to destroy the main climate action for the transport sector by charging biodiesel?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1900	Just to remind the representative Myhrvold a little bit about the history of biofuel investment: if it hadn't been for the left in the power situation that we came to in the autumn of 2013, it wouldn't have been the basis for the whole issue. One had a reversion and a long-term focus on biofuels, which means that Norwegian forest industry and Norwegian biofuel producers are now again able to make the necessary investments. I agree with the representative that it is clear that an ambitious commitment to biofuels has a problematic side as long as parts of the biofuel supply depend on palm oil. Now the representative also knows that the trade committees have not yet come with the budgetary settings. Without me being able to advance anything, it is not certain that the last words have been said in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1907	My question is also about biofuels. SV has rightly accused the government's climate policy of bathing in palm oil several times. Next year, the requirement is increased from 12 pst. until 20 pst. for the placing on the market of biofuels. What measures will the Left take to prevent biofuels from entering into this marketing requirement based on palm oil?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1912	The representative of the Haltbrecken knows the advice of the government that is currently handling this house, to introduce the full user fee on biofuels, which is an effective measure precisely to prevent a given too much palm oil from entering as part of the biofuel supply. Then, unfortunately, as I assume the representative Haltbrecken is agreed on, it can have the negative consequence that de facto can seem negative for emissions. This is a complex matter of matter that there are no simple answers to – so that not the best will be the worst enemy of good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1917	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1922	The budget for 2020 is the first government budget of the Christian People's Party to participate in the presentation as part of the government of Solberg. For the Christian People's Party, this budget deals with, among other things: to ensure the implementation of key areas relating to child-growth conditions and a safe and good school. The proposal we have for treatment in Stortinget clearly shows that the government is following up the efforts of the Christian People's Party over time on just children and young people. Providing children with the best possible start to life is the basis for a society with little differences and equal opportunities. If a real child's opportunities and prevention of poverty and exclusion are to bet on early efforts in a child's life, one of the most effective things we can do. And this budget does just that. We strengthen the educational cycle by raising the quality of school and increasing resources, so that each student is seen and followed up at an early age. The introduction of the teaching norm has been one of the main school policy priorities of the Christian People's Party. The reason is obvious: it gives teachers the opportunity to see individual students and to take appropriate action at an early stage. This past week, many of us have heard the strong story of the 13-year-old boy Daniel, a story he himself shared with his followers on YouTube. Daniel is a tough and brave boy and has experienced what no children should have to know. Daniel chose to tell his story about what it was like to be bullied, kept outside and go with those bad feelings all by himself for a long time until he finally could share it with someone. Daniel's message is that children who are being bullied should be able to dry up to an adult they trust. That's why it's so important that we have enough safe teachers in school who have time and opportunity to follow up the kids. I am pleased that the government is continuing through this budget the full funding of the teacher's norm. The latest figures from the Primary School Information System for the 2018/2019 school year show that there are fewer pupils per teacher than at any other time in the last ten years. This shows that the teacher’s standard is working and gives the individual teacher the opportunity for more customized training. We note that in the alternative budgets of the opposition, the main priority seems to be for a better school, for inclusion, and to counter exclusion being free school food or fruit. The introduction of free school food for all is expensive, but not least a low level of success. We think it's more important to spend money on more teachers. We would rather have more annual work into school than free school food. In order to balance social differences, we believe that the government's budgetary priority of improving school quality and increasing teacher's density is the best tool. Next year, we will mark the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Norway. It is important that we transfer the knowledge of what led to the Holocaust, to the growing generation, by being able to offer the schools class tours with White Buser using state resources. In this way, a lesson on important themes such as antisemitism, hatred, prejudice, human rights and human dignity can be learned. This is important in order to enable the students to understand the historical events that can form the basis for attitudes that may appear as important bulwarks against any of the things that rob human dignity in our time. Unfortunately, at a time when we are witnessing fear and hatred, this knowledge is very central. I am therefore pleased that the government prioritises this subsidy item of 15.5 million. kr, which will allow more schools to organise precisely this type of education journey. For the government, it is important that parents are guaranteed the right to choose education for their children. We notice that where some of the opposition parties choose to cut transfers to groups of types of fresh oils, the government takes a different value choice. I am pleased that the government through this budget ensures that it continues to facilitate fresh schools based on a pedagogical or religious alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1940	The representative spent time in his article talking about children’s opportunities, including children’s opportunities at school. In addition to school food and good teachers, it's a good contribution to success at school. But the government cuts into the arrangement of social security for children's glasses. In this pulpit earlier today, the Prime Minister has said that anyone who has received support in the past will continue to receive it. The problem is they get so much less, they don't get enough to buy the glasses they actually need. Then it is appropriate to ask whether glasses for children did not reach on the Christian People's Party's priority list when the budget was to be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1946	Yes, it did. Children with special visual problems, either less or more serious, shall continue to receive spectacles by means of State resources. One has chosen to make a distinction by what might be defined as smaller vision problems, where one has standardised the rates, but it still has to be supported. In particular, children with special needs, those who are weak or have long-term problems, shall continue to receive exactly the same support as they have received today. This is not the end of a scheme, but the standardisation of a system for some and still individual follow-up for those with specific, complex problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1951	The representative will have to explain this in more detail, because 122 million will be cut. kr in the scheme. At the same time, the impression is that a new system is to be established for children with special needs and that some are to be moved into another system. No more money is allocated to any of the new arrangements outlined by the representative. The problem is that there is a feeling that someone should be spared, while not being given money to do so. I wonder, how can you protect any child from the cut when you don't spend money on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1956	This is a scheme to enter into force on 1 March. We see that there is a need for a clean-up here between the different categories, so that the conversion does not impose extra costs on families with children who have particularly serious visual problems. For this reason, it is important that the government now takes time to get this scheme clearly in place, so that, for example: those with problems of scalability, the minor problems of vision, come in a separate standardised rate category, while with special needs they continue to be fully covered by the state to which they have been assigned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1961	This applies to volunteer centres and their financing. In its proposal for a budget, the government proposes to change the distribution from granting per volunteer centre to financing via community grants in the municipalities. This will affect volunteer centres in small municipalities. The centre party is for local self-government, but in some cases detailed permissions are best placed to ensure a level playing field throughout the country. The central party believes that the government's proposal is serious, and has suggested that today's distribution of the proceeds be passed on. The center part has also added an increase of 2 million. kr in its alternative budget. The case has quite clear parallels to the veterinary watch system, where the original proposal to the government would go hard on small municipalities. After the press from the Center Party, the government turned the matter upside down. It's not too late to turn this case around. The question to the representative of Gruvan is whether the Christian People's Party believes it is right that a decision be taken to finance the voluntary centres in smaller municipalities, or whether the Christian People's Party will take an initiative to change today's funding in connection with the municipal proposition of spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1968	Volunteer centres mean an incredible amount in the municipalities in which they are established. We're very happy with the work they're doing. With relatively small government funds, they are able to activate many people to make a very important job a pleasure for people who need a helping hand or an activity offer, or who otherwise need something more than what they get from the public. We're concerned that we're going to have a system, also in the future. The volunteer centres should be a permanent arrangement in each municipality, and we are concerned to see how this can be done in the best possible way in the future. This shall not be implemented in the 2020 budget, but only from 2021 onwards. We will consider how we can implement the incredibly good system as this is, even after 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1975	Many organisations and small groups in society need support, some need support more badly than others. If we look at anyone who gets support and who doesn't get it, it might be a bad idea to have a set of them up against each other. The Islam-critical organisation Human Rights Service will receive 1.8 million. kr in support of the State budget, while Salam, the Organisation for Lesbian, Homophile and Skeleton Muslims, is receiving nothing. Is the representative of the Countess satisfied that some who have a clearly Islam-critical point of view are supported by the state, while some of the most vulnerable minorities in Norway, skewed Muslims, do not get a crown and thus have to stop their work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1980	It is important to have the most predictable and transparent system of support to organisations. That means that we want guidelines that can be clear and verifiable. When we set up support schemes, it is in order to be able to provide an additional offer to people who need it and experience a very demanding everyday life, or there may be other reasons why a person wants to maintain a diversity, an offer in society that will make these people who benefit from the organisation or action simply not lose an important offer. We have to work all the time to make good arrangements that seem fair and transparent. Then we have to assess whether the arrangements we have today are good enough to meet the needs in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1985	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e1990	Global warming and loss by nature are the main problems facing the world, and it is a main task for the Left in the government to ensure that we reduce greenhouse gas emissions and that we facilitate more nature. It contributes to this budget. Let me mention some main stakes. Since the red-greens in 2013, the rail budget has been strengthened by 88 pst. This continues the government in this budget, with a budget of 1.1 billion. kr more for railway, including start-up and electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway. Plus $12 is going to be equal to $12. kr more for collective investment in the big cities. In the transport sector, we continue the green conversion, among other things. with a solid commitment to green shipping. Concretely, this shall apply to zero-emission speedboats and environmentally friendly cargo ships. We are strengthening the Zero Emissions Fund for Industrial Transport, and we are also increasing the turnover requirement for biofuels and continuing the electricity car benefits. Parts of the opposition here have now gone in so that this is the time to make it more expensive to buy an electric car. I think that's a bad idea. The green conversion of the transport sector must be reinforced and not weakened. If we're going to succeed in the green shift, we're going to be totally dependent on doing a green tax shift as well. It must cost to get out and pay to make green choices, both as a company and as a private person. Therefore, from this budget, the government implements a predictable and long-term escalation of the CO2 tax. We also remove exceptions for this one that has existed until now, specifically for the fishing fleet, and for the use of natural gas/LPG in some industrial processes. I could also have mentioned the strengthening of climate assistance, the commitment to climate research and much more, but let's move on to the results. The most important thing is, after all, not how much money is allocated, but what they give of results. Greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are now falling for the third consecutive year. Although they have to go down faster, they are now at the lowest level since 1995, and this is due to policies such as electric cars, biofuels, the ban on oil fires. In sum, we are now creating a sustained lower demand for fossil fuels and fuels. The sale of petrol and diesel now goes down faster than before and is 4.6 pst. lower in the first six months of the year than last year. Almost every other car sold is an electric car. The air quality in Norwegian cities has not been better and the overall level of CO2 emissions has more than doubled since the civil choice was won in 2013. However, the budget is not all that matters. The government is also doing a lot between each budget decision. Since last year I remember the following that have been carried out: We have concluded a climate agreement with the EU on common objectives in 2030. We have concluded a climate agreement with agriculture. We have established a green fund for the transport of food, and we have adopted a ban on the breeding of bogs. We have announced a ban on disposable plastics, we have established shore-side electricity in a number of new ports, and we phase in electric buses in several cities. And not least, as was also mentioned earlier, we are now building and supporting under the world's largest floating sea wind farm. Even more needs to be done. That is why we are also in the process of developing a 2030 climate plan, which the Storting will receive next year's treatment. There we will present the plans to achieve the 2030 climate targets, where the goal is to reduce emissions in the non-quota sector by 45 pst. We're going to achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2018	I think it was interesting to hear the contribution to the Minister for Climate and Environment, not least given that a fund for business transport has now been set up in Enova. The Council of State also said that you are very concerned about results, and I want to challenge the Council of State on what the results are so far. What kind of opportunities does the Council of State have to follow as concretely as possible that emissions go down to the level it has set itself as a target? How is this being followed up by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2026	In the case of the zero-emission fund, we have achieved results very quickly. This was well launched in August, and already three weeks later there were orders. I'll be careful to say numbers, but I think there were orders for over 2,000 electric cars, which are just a support to get a market where the technology is there, but where it's too low. It is also an aid to enable both the larger enterprises and, in particular, the smaller enterprises to make a transition to zero-emission transport. The whole purpose of this is to provide support where one needs to get a faster phase-in, but where it takes longer because the technology is only here now. It is within heavy transport, with biogas, hydrogen and electrification, and also within shipping, where this is one of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2033	I want to talk maybe a little bit on behalf of my own state, which is a very export-oriented state: Moor and Romsdal. There are a lot of products to be made out of the county. What we're seeing now is that there's been a decline in orbit from the Romsdals side, and we have challenges in finding solutions to renew the shortship fleet. There's something the Council of State has taken up by making a plan for it. Again to what goes on: I'm very concerned to hear what the Council of State actually does to renew this fleet, so that it might be positive to say that you're going to get more goods on the keel, because it's a green offer you have. Today, the boats being driven are, on average, 30–35 years old. Someone has to find a solution to this, market-wise, make it run, and we want to get a new system in place compared to what the government has done before, that didn't hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2040	Firstly, there is now a support scheme also within the Ministry of Transport to get goods from road to rail – I think it is 88 million. kr, but I'm not supposed to be sure of that. From my area, it's 20 million. kr to a green shipping programme to just look at how we can renew the coastal fleet that we need. There we see support within Enova, we have the NOx fund, and there are some great and good examples that one has not only electric vessels, which are on the way in, but also autonomous electric vessels. ASKO has one of these, and ‘Yara Birkeland’ is what appears all over the world. So there's a lot going on in this field. The reason for that is the 20 million. kr is there, just to get a better overview of what are the next steps to get to this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2045	It may be a bit funny to stand here in the finance debate and have to talk about the robberies deal, but we have to do that because the robberies deal assumes that changes are made through active decisions in Stortinget. However, in this budget proposal, the government is trying to put in place leadership to expand the area of brown bear – despite the fact that the settlement of the Storting assumes that insider withdrawals will occur when these damage and kill livestock in grazing priority areas. As you know, the predatory game deal is based on an area differentiation, and as I interpret it, the government can't just change the priority areas of bear by commenting on the budget proposition. So the question is, does the Council of State think this is in line with the robberies agreement, and in that case does he have the representatives of the Right and Advance Party behind him?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2058	There is no change in areas in this draft budget. There are two processes in progress. There is one in the Roof Wild Region of Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, where knowledge is gathered from predatory wildlife subjects to look at how the area of bear works. When we look at the Nordland management plan, there's a work going on in the ministry to see how we're going to make it work better in relation to the two-part objective, which is also about bears. So you have to include all the parts of the predatory game deal -- that you have the two-part goal at the same time you have to achieve the stock goals that we have. There is also a priority in the internal agreement, which is important in order to achieve the stock target of 13 juveniles, while the harvesting of male bears is often done and will be done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2063	In 2017, the government’s climate policy in palm oil bathed. Next year, the government has proposed the imposition of an user charge on the biofuels traded outside the placing on the market. I agree with the government that it will prevent the use of biofuels based on palm oil outside the market requirement. However, when the placing on the market requirement increases from 12 to 20 pst. and no instruments are put in place to prevent palm oil-based biofuels from being traded within the scope of the placing on the market requirement, the government is also at risk of swimming in palm oil next year. So my question to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is: What measures will he take to prevent palm oil-based biofuels from being traded within the turnover requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2070	Emissions now decline in Norway for the third consecutive year, and biofuels have also been an important cause for achieving this. And it goes down, from two years back, now it's probably 93 million. Lt last year, and expectations are that it will fall this year as well. One of the important measures is that there is good cooperation with the industry, with the industry agreements, and most operators do not now use palm oil. It is also important to ensure that the content of biofuels via the Environment Directorate is better informed, and also to advise on how to obtain public purchases without palm oil. So the expectation is that it will continue to go down, while biofuels are an important part to bring down emissions quickly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2075	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2080	The Norwegian community is built on the fact that we have a fair distribution, and that we make sure that those who need a safety net have it. The Norwegian economy is growing, and we still hear that our country is doing better. Then it's interesting to look at who's enjoying that it's going well. Are they the ones with a lot of capital, or are they the workers? Someone might think that being concerned about this is about envy. No, because the Labour Party is about justice, because when the inequality increases, we get a less fair society. An example of this is that in the last ten years they have 10 pst. the lowest income had a real wage increase of approximately DKK 1000, while the real wage has increased by over DKK 100 000 for the 10 pst. at the top. That should really upset the majority parties. In the period after 2013, the government has reduced the value of the trade union deduction. But an important and active tool for fairer distribution is to make sure that many are organized, because we know that it works. Therefore, the Workers' Party was pleased that in January 2018 the majority asked the government to promote a case with proposals to contribute to an increased level of organisation. The proposal is now being written off with a bureaucratic justification that does not meet objectives. The case is pushed over to the parties, and the third leg of the Norwegian model abdicates. The Labour Party believes that it is important to provide strong employee organisations, as it helps to ensure a fairer distribution. That is why we propose to double the trade union deduction. Why wouldn't the employees, just like the companies, be able to deduct their expenses from being organized? Increased deductions from the union quota will bring workers beyond 0.5 billion. kr in tax bill – a tax bill for most people. The working party has never understood the idea that people are getting healthier and more laboured by losing income, while those who are rich are motivated to provide more just the wallet gets thicker. In this year's budget, there is a new variant of this ideological short-circuit. Young people on redundancy pay need better follow-up, but they have to pay for it themselves. The Labour Party very much agrees that young people need to be helped to get into working life if they are facing challenges. But the fact that they have to pay for it themselves is unheard of. More attention needs to be paid to measures and offers for young people. It is alarming that so many young people end up in dissatisfaction early in life. Someone should, of course, but would more people be able to work if the support had been better in the past? We are sure that the answer is yes. That's why we're increasing the effort in the field by almost 700 million. NOK 83 million. kr separately for the youngest. The Nav scandal has shaken us all, and the Control and Constitution Committee is doing a good job of finding out what went wrong. But too many people don't get the help they need from the system. The system is hard to understand. The system writes letters that one must have worked in the system to understand, and the system has removed itself from the people it's supposed to help. The system sends one through an impermeable wall of keystrokes and new case handlers. The hub's purpose was one door into the services. Now there has been a telephone queue and a round dance between case handlers. That's not what Nav we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2095	The Norwegian economy is now in an upturn. The activity is increasing throughout the country, and the registered unemployment rate has fallen to levels we have not seen since 2008. The debate on inequality is important. We in the Right would like to welcome it. The main difference in Norway is between those who are at work and those who are outside, between those who are in a school course and those who fall out. This is why it has something to say that growth is on the rise, and that over the last few years, there have been 50,000 more jobs – 40,000 of them in the private sector. Therefore, it has something to say that the government continues to invest in inclusion, knowledge and competence to include more people in the labour market and reduce exclusion. The government provided a budget to solve important tasks for today and to equip Norway for years to come. At the same time, I have followed the opposition with great wonder during both the autumn and today's budget debate so far. What's the glue in the opposition? What is it that binds the opposition together? Well, they've put forward their alternative budgets, which crack in every direction. What the parties really have in common, if you look carefully, is that they increase taxes and taxes. They're going up -- it has the batches in common. Furthermore, they have in common that freedom of choice should be reduced and the private should be removed. That is what so far in the debate today binds the opposition together. That's okay, but then we got it on the table. But there's also another thing that I've discovered lately – one, what to say, new and worrying agreement that has now emerged between the parties Red, the Green, SV and the Workers' Party. Let me introduce this consensus first, by reading out a short and very precise note in connection with the treatment of the fund announcement, which was dealt with earlier this year, and on which the Workers' Party and those parties were also involved. It sounds very short and simple: ‘The Fund shall not be a political instrument.’ I repeat: ‘The fund should not be a political instrument.’ But during this year's Zero Conference, the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, came with a quite perceptive opinion. He then meant that we had to get used to saying that our pension fund is a political tool. That is the opposite of what the Workers' Party has meant in connection with the Fund Communication and, in fact, in all years until now. Now the head of the Workers' Party has rowed in all directions after that statement, so you can think: Well, then it wasn't that careful. But that's it, for what happened? Well, the problem is that SV, Red and the Green Party have been throwing themselves over it and being quick out and saying that they will go even further than Gahr Støre would. And then there's another group that's been completely silent. It's the Workers' Party's financial fraction. Where have they been in this debate? They're completely quiet. They are also sitting in the hall here today. Do they still agree that the political priorities are done in the budgets, as we do in today's debate, and not through the fund? Or is it that the party leader has spoken, and we can expect a new line? I want to challenge the Workers' Party's financial fraction to clarify whether they still stand for the fund not being a political tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2113	I can't quite humiliate myself. Now we have heard from representatives from the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV about the greatest decline of the time in the domestic economy. We can discuss that, but we can definitely not discuss that more wealth taxes, the decline of people who create jobs and people who want to be entrepreneurs and start businesses, absolutely is not medicine to get the domestic economy moving. It's just an invitation to flag jobs and businesses out of the country. At least it seems that the Progress Party is an incredibly bad idea. I'm glad that there's a difference between a government and a government without the Advance Party, because we've had an impact on a number of things that are important to our great voters. We have got in place and continue to work to strengthen a good, safe and dignified care for the elderly, which is important for the Progress Party. All those in need of care should receive good, secure services. I am very pleased that the scheme of state care for elderly people is going to several municipalities. Then, of course, I have to travel. This is, of course, an area where the Progress Party has really achieved success together with the other government parties. On Monday, we're going to open up a new E18 in my municipality of residence, Bamble, which I find incredibly enjoyable. We've been on for almost 25 years to get that road in place. Now it opens on Monday, and it happens with the fantastic new road company Nye Veier, which makes sure to build faster and more efficiently and makes sure that the costs go down for the drivers in this country. I am very proud of the fact that the Progress Party has been created in government. But then: I have to go back to the party leader in the Center Party in the line change a little earlier today. The husband of eel noking I think you should look for a long time, at least in this room. I understand that the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, has had serious problems responding to the 999 million. kr that the Centre Party has removed from state-funded care for the elderly and removed from the four municipalities that are now involved in the State experiment. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum spoke warmly about his standing up in the morning – I have also stood up in the morning, I have traveled around and visited these four municipalities to see how it goes with the care of the elderly, how important care for the elderly is, what it means for the employees, what it means for the management of the municipality, and what it means for users to get really good care for the elderly and care services. That is what the State Test Scheme is all about. Then it's tragic to have a party that takes away the order and says we're going to give 2.5 billion. kr extra for the local government sector. The reality is, they cut 1 billion. kr in Lillesand, Björnafjorden, Selbu and Stjørdal, which are run by the Centre Party with the Central Party rapporteur who has carved this project into the clouds. The funny thing is, when you're trying to spin around, it's actually just going into the Center Party's own proposal and seeing what's in the city hall. And what was the municipal council in 2015? Yes, it was over 1.1 billion. kr. What is the Municipal Council of the Centre Party's proposal? Yes, it's 1 billion and 16 million in 2019. So that means that in 2015, in relation to the ramma municipality, including care for the elderly, it actually has 85 million. kr less now, with the new proposals of the Centre Party. It actually shows that the Centre Party has taken from the care of the elderly in the four municipalities and moved it out to the other municipalities in the country. But in reality, they're almost 1 billion missing. kr. I now expect, since the representative, Mr Gülsvik, will be in the chair afterwards, that he will explain to me where this money is and how his own party trap – the rapporteur, Mr Vigdenes in Stjørdal, will provide care for over 1,500 users who receive home services from the municipality every day, and that for 8.9 million. kr. It's going to be an efficiency we've never seen our husband do. I am happy to hear how to provide care for so many people. This is about people's everyday lives, so I'm very happy that the Central Party does not get a majority for its proposal today, because it would frustrate the care of the elderly in these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2124	The President is somewhat uncertain as to what "hooligan" means, but it doesn't sound very well, so it shouldn't be used here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2129	I notice that the representative, Hoksrud, once again feels the need to use speaking time on the Spokesman's chair to show that he has not read the Central Party's alternative budget and what it says, rather than actually spending the time doing just that. In our alternative state budget, we have a strong strengthening of the municipal economy – 2.5 billion. extra to municipalities, which are likely to benefit from the provision of good services near the whole of Norway. In addition, we have the means to liquidate the scheme of state funding for care for the elderly. It comes to the top of the 2.5 billion. kr. And on top of that again, we return money to the municipalities by not centralizing the municipal tax collection, but retaining that competence in the municipalities, so that the municipalities can carry out their tasks in the community that they have had in the past. We make sure to listen to the municipalities, make sure to listen to those who work with these tasks in their everyday lives, who strongly warn against the centralization to which one puts up, which will both weaken the work against the crime of working life, which will weaken the professional environment in the municipalities, and which will provide worse services. And one also risks getting lower incomes into the community. But to the representative Hoksrud, it was interesting to hear Hoksrud's comments, where he also talks about how to convert the Norwegian economy. Firstly, one must recognise the challenge that exists. The trade balance has weakened year by year, from about 152 B.C.E. DKK to 252 billion kr, i.e. approx. 100 B.C.E. kr in five years. Some of the things that worry me almost more than the fact that the trade balance has weakened so much, for some years also with the developments in the krone price that have been, where there should have been things that had pointed in the opposite direction, is the disclaimer and exodus that comes from representatives of the government parties in this room. Instead, a person should be serious about himself and say that now we have to take action, now we have to take care to strengthen business in Norway, now we have to make sure to build jobs throughout Norway, build new industries. But what do you do when someone likes to talk about strengthening business in Norway? The representative Hoksrud does not have to go further than approximately to his own neighborhood, when the government overnight is going to increase the fees for Yara's ammonia production, a company that is heavily competitive. One is talking about green shifts, but it seems that the government parties have lulled into a notion that green shifts are equal to increased fees. But what is important is to ensure a policy that works, that contributes to green transition. There is little to help if the ammonia production of Yara disappears from Norway with higher emissions somewhere else because the fees have increased so much on the holding. It's the exact same one that also looks at the discussion about biofuels. This introduces a full user charge for biofuels outside the scope of the turnover requirement. There are strong warnings from almost an overall business life – from the NHO, the Lastebileier-Verbundet, ASKO, Tine, Posten. A lot of people who have just invested in and want to convert into biofuels say that now it won't be profitable anymore. One says it could increase emissions by 700000 tonnes. Then it is much better to do as the Centre Party does, reduce taxes and reduce emissions, instead of the opposite. Similarly within fish, where one now adds an increased CO2 charge to the fishing fleet, which can help to drive forward structural changes. One should do as the Centre Party proposes in its alternative budget, have a grant for conversion into the Starfleet, so that one actually makes changes, instead of simply increasing the fees, so as to reduce the possibility of conversion. Equally, when one is also going to have a shift in ferry transport, as the Minister for Climate and Environment was in the process here. The most important measure there is to strengthen the economy of boat and ferry companies, so that they can contribute to and be the engine of the conversion as it should be. And then to the seventh and last in terms of the CO2 charge for the commercial transport. Once again: instead of choosing measures that an overall business life together with environmental organisations says will work, a CO2 fund based on the NOx fund model, the government chooses another solution that increases fees and does not reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2150	Yesterday the news came from the United Nations: the world is by no means close to achieving its climate goals. We are moving towards a climate crisis and a warming of our common future between three and four degrees. The message from the UN was clear: we have to cut emissions in the years to come in a way that makes the emission graphs look like the outlets in Kitzbühel. Such cuts are the sitting government far away. Instead, the government chooses to pursue a policy that violates Storting’s 2012 climate targets. The government has been aware of this for a very long time, because the forecasts have shown us for many years that the government's climate policy is completely inadequate. In addition, the government's climate policy risks once again bathing in palm oil. The requirement for the placing on the market of biofuels in Norway is increasing. That's good. However, there is no requirement for this biofuel to be free of palm oil. This biofuel is not required to contribute to increased deforestation, rainforest destruction and increased greenhouse gas emissions in other parts of the world. And not enough – the imposition of the user charge on biofuels sold in addition to the turnover requirement shall be implemented for all, including those who can guarantee that they run on an environmentally friendly biofuels that do not contribute to the destruction of the rainforest. Therefore, SV has proposed two things in the treatment of this State budget: one is that it should not be allowed to count biofuels based on palm oil or other biofuels with a high deforestation risk under the marketing requirement. Our second proposal is that those who can guarantee that they run on a biofuel that does not contribute to the deforestation of the rainforest should be compensated for it when they use more biofuels than is provided for in the marketing requirement. This is a proposal which has also been supported by industry. This is a proposal that ASKO, which is currently running on large amounts of biofuels, has even thought to be the right one. It no longer lasts to make each government budget marginally greener than the previous one. We need a green new deal, a green new deal that cuts Norwegian emissions, which ensures a fair distribution, which ensures that it is not the poorest who have to pay the climate bill and who secures and creates new jobs in this country. We all have opportunities to start that conversion today. Instead, we see the government present a government budget that continues to make us highly dependent on the oil industry, which is still to pump up oil and gas for decades to come when Norway and the world are going to move towards zero in emissions. It's not just the recipe for climate disaster, but it's also the recipe for an economic disaster. For what happens the day when the rest of the world doesn't want to buy these fossil products? Through this state budget, we have to give people the tools they need to cut their emissions and cut the emissions of society. Therefore, SV also proposes a strong commitment to Enova, which will be important in the transformation of business and help make people's everyday lives more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2165	The Labour Party will create a more fair and climate-friendly society, where more people will have the opportunity to work. We have a responsible budget, where the ordinary lady and husband and family are the winners. We're reducing the economic and social differences, which makes confidence grow, and people with ordinary incomes and pensioners get a easier life. For this reason, we have a more demanding tax scheme, where anyone who pays 750,000 or less gets tax relief with the Workers' Party, while those who tend more have to contribute more to taxes. It also applies to those with large assets; they have to contribute more to the community, but we protect houses and homes. With our property tax plan, a family can have a paid-down house of $12 million. kr in market value before they have to pay taxes on wealth. For example, I would like to use a family from Hoeanger. Both parents charge 400,000 kroner, one of them commutes to Förde, it's 50 km one way, they have one child in kindergarten, one in the first grade and one in the 17 year old bonus. Both parents are, of course, professionally organized. With the Workers' Party's budget, they would get about 13 000 kroner more to spend each year. It's a lot of money. And then I don't know if the kids need to customize glasses or dental regulation, or that the youth gets a free dentist and drop an asset to both a doctor and a physiotherapist, or that they can borrow leisure equipment free of charge in the BUA equipment library. Property taxes – no, they don't get away, so much they don't have in savings, they have loans on the house, and the market value of the house in Hoøanger is well under 12 million. kr. The working party's budget is for ordinary people to get better whether they live in town or built. The labor party will cut emissions, but at the same time create jobs. Greenhouse gas emissions are going down without people having to fear their jobs. Then the transition to a more climate-friendly society must be fair, and then those who have the most must do the most. Until now, too little industrial policy has led to climate change and too little climate policy has led to economic development. This will change the Labour Party. Therefore, we will enter into a binding agreement with industry and industry on greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we are giving industry time and support for conversion. Nor will the Labour Party accept that people are being pushed out of the working community because qualifications are increasing or changing. For this reason, we have a billions of skills – both for those who are already at work and for those who want to work. The new West is now facing a number of demanding challenges. The state is larger, but the economic framework is in need. Necessary investment must be postponed. The health service provider must cut, and a number of state services and workplaces are now at risk. If it's to you people in the whole country, people must have good services near those people's cages. This is not about ‘abuse’, which the right-hand side likes to call it. It's about justice. The right-hand side's ideological belief that only the richest get more, the rest is to be arranged, doesn't hold water. This is not how the real world works. If you cut in the districts, you weaken the districts, that's easy. If you give the richest, the richest, the richest. When low incomes are not taxed, they are less frequented. The differences are increasing, so simple. Decentralized Norway is a success story. Our wealth and well-being is the sum of what we create in the whole country. A country with work and settlement in large and small communities is the foundation of strong community and common identity. The future wife locally makes Norway better national. For this reason, the Labour Party is its party, both in the cities and in the districts. For generations we have shown that Norway is best closed when we stand together – city and country. I have noticed that the government party is excited that the opposition is some about the direction of policy objectives that are less different, that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced, that there is a ring of welfare. Well, I would wish the government had soon decided for one direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2199	At a time of growing economic uncertainty and low growth both in our neighbouring countries in Europe and globally, the Norwegian economy is still in very good development across the country and in most industries. We are in the third year of economic recovery, and positive developments are expected to continue growth over the trend also next year. For the government's policy works well. The employment rate is high, the unemployment rate is record low, on about 2 pst. – the lowest level of 10 years. The level of investment in enterprises is at the pre-financial crisis level. The low krone price has given export companies a competitive advantage, and the oil price has stayed up, with the positive ringing effects it produces. Some enterprises and industries now have difficulties in providing skilled labour. As many as 50,000 more have come to work in the last year – four out of five in private enterprises. Why is it so important that job growth comes right in private businesses? Well, because it's these jobs that pay for well-being. Our greatest wealth is the value of the work of all those who go to work every day. Then it is wrong to tighten up towards businesses and threaten the jobs people depend on for their homes and homes, as is done from the opposition to varying degrees through strong tax and tax tightenings. We have to find out that there is a full speck on the red-green side. The only thing that unites is a taxpayer that surpasses most, on a 40-billion-dollar scale. kr and downwards. Also, the Centre Party, as we heard instead, which, according to the representative, Gülsvik, is committed to strengthening the business sector in Norway, will increase the tax burden on jobs and favour foreign ownership over Norwegian-owned family businesses. When economic development is so good, it is the result of a responsible economic policy and good, targeted framework conditions. It is about holding back fiscal policies and preventing the pressures in the economy from becoming too high, and about safeguarding the growth capacity and competitiveness of business. The budget reduces the use of oil money to 2,6 pst. by SPU, in line with the rule of action. It is also about investing in commerce, in research and education, in technology development and in growth-promoting tax incentives, which are now summarised to 25.5 billion. kr since 2013. It is a tax reform supported by the OECD and the IMF. While there are good times and growth, we have to use the possibilities to include more and let the businesses get involved in that hard work. We need to further facilitate the necessary conversion, so that the Norwegian economy gets more bones to stand on. We must succeed in ensuring sustainability for future well-being. Demographic developments with several older people per person employed in combination with decreasing oil revenues challenge us. This is why the government prioritises measures for the success of more young people in school and education, and for the renewal and enhancement of their skills. Several have to go from passive action to activity, more have to be included and integrated into work, and more have to stay longer in work than today. Then it must pay off to work. A vulnerability factor is the worryingly high level of household debt. It makes people's private economy more vulnerable to change, which may affect demand and economic activity. The fourth quarter forecast barometer now indicates that there are more people who want to save and pay off loans than today. That's good – it'll be stabilizing. So there are also conditions outside our control that affect our open economy. In particular, it is linked to increased trade barriers. Increased protectionism, less belief in multilateral solutions and reduced transparency weaken the driving forces that over time lead to conversion and productivity growth in the world economy. Not least, the concern is linked to the impact of brexit in our largest single market in the EU, the United Kingdom. It is reassuring that the government is following developments closely and that we are prepared for all scenarios, deal or no deal. So far, estimates suggest that the negative impact of brexit will be greatest for the British themselves, not for the trading partners. Then it's the climate challenges, that have to be solved within a framework that doesn't give red numbers on the bottom line of businesses. We're going to reduce emissions, but not growth. With this hindrance, we see the importance of investing in the future, conducting a responsible economic policy at home and standing by our commitments in arenas and in areas that matter to our own security. The 2020 budget is a recipe for a greener, more modern and safer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2224	The Norwegian economy is within its third year of boom. The activity is increasing throughout the country, and the registered unemployment rate is down to levels that we have not seen for more than ten years. It's good news for the individual who's out of work and into the work community, but it's also good for us as a society. We're going to use the good times to include more people in the world of work and reduce exclusion. We're going to build the country closer together and reduce travel time, and we're going to keep cutting emissions and promoting green growth. In school, we see that a lot goes in the right direction. The students learn more, they are more present, and more complete and survive higher education. In the student survey, we see that the students report that the bullying goes down. It's important. Safe students who thrive learn better. But there are still challenges. Many students experience that small problems get bigger. Competence is not tight enough for children and young people who are struggling. Those with the greatest challenges often meet unskilled assistants rather than adults with relevant competences. For this reason, we have presented 60 actions in the ‘Purpose — Early Efforts and Inclusive Communitys in kindergarten, school and SFO’. We're going to move the competence from meeting rooms to sandboxes and classrooms. We will carry out a large and lasting level of competence in order to ensure more specialised pedagogical competence in kindergarten and school. We are already taking the first steps in the 2020 budget. Last week I presented the new curriculum, the Knowledge Lift 2.0. That's the biggest change in Norwegian school since 2006. We are now renewing the content of the school. We're doing a valuelift, and we're helping more students learn more by learning better. New curricula also require new learning resources. That's why we've done 250 million. kr for 2020. It is in addition to significant funds allocated in 2019. Another main challenge is that a large group of students leave primary school without being able to read, write and calculate properly. It increases the chance of dropping out of high school, and the path of leave may be short. That's why it's a top priority for the Right and the Government to ensure that everyone learns the basic skills. Reading, writing and calculating are fundamental to other learning. In the new curricula, we make clear the basic skills that we have put in place for the schools to give students who are going to attend intensive learning in reading, writing and billing, and we're going to ensure that all schools have access to teacher specialists in early education by 2025. Someone will probably claim that this is what everyone agrees with. If only it had been so well. We see from the Workers' Party's alternative budget that they are actually terminating the teacher's specialist scheme. When we promoted the proposal on the obligation to provide students with intensive training, the Workers' Party also voted against it. This makes a significant difference between the Right and Workers' Party in school policy. Where we give priority to initial training and basic skills, we see that the Labour Party prioritises everything else. The government is well-informed about the reform of competence. Learn your whole life. We have launched industry programmes and flexible training provision in digital literacy. Next year, we will make important adjustments in the Loan Fund, so that it will be better adapted to adults who need to fill their skills in order to be able to work longer. Norway is one of the best starting points for creating an education system where everyone masters, teaches and thrives. We're going to catch up with the students who think it's a little bit difficult, and give them the help they need. We need to invest more in knowledge because it gives people opportunities and businesses the skills they need. A good school is the key to social mobility for individuals, small differences and a sustainable welfare society. Finally, I noticed that the representative Gülsvik made a big point that Norway has a trade deficit with the rest of the world. It is interesting that it comes from a lot that is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Looking at the trade balance including oil, there is a surplus, and as long as we use the real return from the pension fund in the Norwegian economy, it is clear that it will also increase imports of both goods and services from abroad. That explains the deficit that Gælsvik was so worried about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2257	I will again challenge the Council of State at the Evening Post's revelations on the Right Sneezing Privatisation of School-Norway. I also notice that the Minister of Knowledge has not yet asked for an interview with the Evening Post, and that there are still many unanswered questions in the matter. In fact, I honestly wonder what is behind the Ministry's justification when a political disregard for the technical advice on negative local consequences. I have had time to look at the ministry's discussions about this when the law was passed. Looking at what is written about the documentation and the extent of the seriousness and the negative consequences, it is clear to me that it should be relatively little to the visible disadvantages of a host municipality in order for an application to be rejected. In practice, the list appears to have been slightly higher. The closure of schools, the weakening of public school provision and the economic disadvantages are not to be counted as serious consequences, it seems to be on the examples we have received. So when the Council of State has added the list higher, where is the limit for something to be considered as serious consequences for public school provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2266	There were a lot of claims here. First of all, there is no snuff privatisation. My main concern is to ensure a good public school. All my work is going to ensure good quality. At the same time, we are concerned that there should be real diversity, an opportunity to choose an alternative. It is a real political debate. But all the assessments made in the ministry when dealing with complaints are thorough, and they are under the law and according to good administrative practice. All questions asked from the Evening Post will be answered. The evening post lamented parts of its first look, to which it refers. We are dealing with the proposals under the law and under the pre-worker of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2273	I look forward to the Council of State taking the time to meet the evening post, and I would like to remind you once again that the only thing they complained about was that the Council of State was not provided with all the information in advance – they are behind everything that has been presented in the matter. The reason why I dig into this and ask about it is also a little about how all municipalities in Norway should understand the practice of the Ministry of Knowledge and the interpretation by the Ministry of Knowledge of the negative local consequences. Take, for example: The example from Flekkefjord, where the municipality said clearly that this was going to have negative local consequences, with a councilman saying clearly that a primary school had to be set up here. This ignores the department. The reason why I wish the Council of State could respond to what lies behind this practice is precisely to make it easier for municipalities to understand what lies behind the assessments of the ministry when one ignores the negative local consequences. I had hoped that the Council of State could answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2283	I've read that complaint from the Evening Post. It seems that the representative Tvidt Solberg knows more about the inner thoughts in the evening post than I do. I deal with my office, and I think it's quite a rough statement from the representative. There is thorough treatment here, carried out by competent lawyers who deal with each complaint under the law and under the law. It is true that in six years there have been 14 cases in the ministry. Under red-green rule, six cases were converted. Then you can discuss the size of this transformation room, and you can discuss who will be involved in the appeal proceedings. But as long as the law of the day applies, we relate to the law and the preprocessor of the law. Of course, we focus on the views of the municipality, but they need to be balanced against the elements of the law and the preprocessor of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2290	It's time to discuss the EEA, but I signed because I wanted to take a line on the Council's articles related to new curricula, which have now been presented. From the autumn of 2020, the trade renewal will be rolled out in all schools and in all classrooms throughout the country. There is a comprehensive reform that will require a great deal of cooperation and other ways of working in order to achieve the objective of multidisciplinary and deep learning in practice. We should think that the government would provide the necessary development of competence in schools, so that the individual teacher and the colleges were prepared, but no. The government's budget lacks measures to prepare for those who are going to undertake the professional renewal in classrooms. Why does the government want to spend 1.5 billion? kr to charge experienced teachers with further training, but NOK zero on the development of skills that all teachers need when implementing the innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2299	What's said here is not right. When we add another and a half billion dollars to the further education of teachers, it's about teachers having professional depression in reading, writing and calculating, Norwegian, English and mathematics. These are basic subjects which are also strengthened in the new curricula. In the context of the training pot, there is also money for e.g.: programming. Programming is one of the priorities of the new curricula. Programming and algorithmic thinking has become part of several disciplines. We also set out several hundred million dollars for the decentralised model of competence, and there is precisely the individual school and school owner who prioritises the funds for the needs of the school, for example. related to the specific needs of trade renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2306	Every classroom in the country has students struggling with reading, writing and billing. The councils are talking about competence closely, and he's talking about many people leaving school without learning to read and write. He boasts of a big message, which is ten birds on the roof, while SV has one bird in his hand, which we're burning for, and it's that we're going to charge all the municipalities and all the schools that they're going to have competence to help these students in every classroom, because there's these students. The government responds with municipal freedom and freedom for teacher training. Why is it more important for the government that there should be a choice in teacher training to be able to do something about this, and no clear obligation or deadline for municipalities to be dyslexic and dyscal, as SV suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2313	The bird that SV has in his hand, it flies quite quickly. As far as I have understood from the SV's alternative budget, one wants to wind up the system of teacher specialists. We want to ensure that all schools are a teacher specialist in initial training by 2025. We have introduced an obligation for the schools to provide students who get hung up on in reading, writing and billing, intensive training. As far as I understand, SV is also against this. Here's a different view of what you prioritize. We believe that students should be able to assess their Norwegian skills in good time before they start school, so that they can get the help and support they need to have good Norwegian skills when they start school. We'll give students intensive training if they get hung up on, and we'll make sure there's more special pedagogical competence where the kids are, in kindergarten and in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2325	In Norway, there are small economic differences between people. It enables us to create more values and make sure that we trust each other. Still, we've seen that the 30 pst. with the lowest income has received less advice in the years with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. The rich at the same time become even richer. Differences are now increasing in Norway, both in income and in wealth. Reducing these differences permeates all policies of the Workers' Party. The welfare must be strengthened, more must be included in the labour market, the tax system must be redistributive, and not least we must ensure that hospitals, municipalities and counties are able to provide good services. To take the latter three – hospitals, municipalities and the counties: It is an improper paradox that in Norway we have a super rich state and an increasingly rich upper class. Only in 2018 there were 33 billionaires in small Norway. While wealth accumulates in some, hospitals, municipalities and communities are preparing for cut budgets for 2020. Even the statutory services are in danger in many places. For the municipalities, the government proposes the weakest municipal structure of 15 years. With a free income growth of 0,3 pst. you are miles away from being able to prepare the municipalities for the increased needs we know to be coming. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to read a reading article published in the nation on Tuesday. The name is as much as "Responsible to the government from a very common municipality": ‘We want to be at the limit of the lawbreak with further cuts. We in Osterøy are now in the leadership of the Union and are going to deal with the budget for 2020. A slightly stated, frustrated and despondent councilman presents the budget. Year after year we have worked well and provide good services to our residents. We've turned every penny and driven well from KS's figures, and we've managed to keep the budget for the last few years. But this year it looks darker than anything. Because of new regulations, such as the new standard of teachers, increasing the standard of staffing in kindergartens, and the fact that the costs of health and care are not included in the budget, it seems this year that we are not able to balance the budget and we are very close to not even doing the statutory tasks. With further cuts, we will be at the limit of crime in several sectors. Our adviser, through his or her trustworthiness, has good contact with other advisers, both regionally and nationally and ‘tired’, is that this is not special for our municipality, but something very many small and medium-sized municipalities are struggling with. [[...]] From a central point of view, the municipalities will hear that they have never had more money than they have now. But the municipalities have never had bigger tasks than now. We would like to point out in particular the statutory costs, but not the costs that can affect a municipality in terms of health and care. For Easter Island's part, such expenditure was suddenly $17.5 million higher for 2020. Here, something must be done from a state standpoint, either by the state taking all these costs, or by a reconciliation between municipalities. We also ask that they do not adopt reforms and other good measures that result in higher costs for municipalities without enough government money. What does our local democracy do when, year after year, the task of the district government is only to deal with a deficit of millions of people who give a powerful cut in the services of our inhabitants? How do we pass this on to the inhabitants, users and add them? Finally, what is the motivation to engage in local policy?’ This was an emergency call to the government from Osterøy in Hordaland, and it was signed by a collective municipal government, including the government parties – Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Our municipalities have huge unsolved tasks today, and in the years to come, there will be even more older ones. This is why a strong and predictable municipal economy is so important, and therefore the Workers' Party strengthens the municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr in its budget. We do that because we want to balance the differences and ensure that the municipality is ready for an offer on the day they need help. The government budget adopted here today is going in the opposite direction. Municipalities must cut welfare, which in turn will increase the differences between people and increase insecurity. If the representatives of the government parties do not believe in me, at least I hope that they will listen to their own local politicians, as this week saw it necessary to send an emergency call to their own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2363	It is stated in Storting's Rules of Procedure that quotations are to be used to a limited extent, but at least they were in new Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2368	Today we are adopting a budget that is good for the country. Through all the budgets that the majority has provided, we have made it better to be a businessman in this country, and we have made it better to be a normal family. Among other things, we do. made by cutting the taxes by 25 billion. kr since 2013. In total, since the accession of the Solberg government, an average family has retained NOK 48 000 more than they had when the Workers' Party ruled the country. It means some to ordinary people out there. The most important thing we do as politicians is to ensure that jobs are created in this country. The main action to combat inequality in society is not to tax entrepreneurs in their entirety. It is to ensure that they retain more of their own money, so that more jobs can be created. When the left-hand side proposes to increase taxes and taxes by anything from 3 billion. to 40 billion dollars. kr, it is an expression that they have not understood that it costs money to invest in the green shift, in new jobs and in conversion. I would much rather that there should be company owners along the whole country with the possibility of turning to new markets, changing over in a digital time, and not least employing more people in the job, than that we should use them here from Stortinget. In my opinion, levying taxes at the level of the left-hand side is one of the largest centralisations. The district does not live on public jobs. The district lives from private jobs, which contribute to the local environment, create values and invest. When you take their money from these businesses and owners and move them here, to the center of Oslo – that's when we talk about centralisation. Having more faith that an office here in Oslo should do a better job than local business owners in deciding where to use the money is not possible for me to understand. As politicians, we must ensure that the forces of business do not fail, we must regulate when we have to, and we must let go of the good innovative forces as much as we can. I would like to see that we had room to cut taxes more in next year's budget. When there was no room for it in this budget, it is precisely because the defence's long-term plan is now fully funded, because the transport budget has increased by 80 p.p., and because we put large sums into climate action. We have to hold money in good times, and we have to do that without reading the burden on businesses and ordinary people. It is not possible to escape the fact that the Centre Party will withdraw Norway from an agreement that not only takes the whole country into use, but that the whole country has put it into use. We are an export-oriented nation. We have an export-oriented business. It's not the EEA agreement that I defend, but I defend the industry's unhindered access to the customers they live on. That's what we're going to live on. So we have to have more jobs that contribute to the welfare state, and cut red tape as much as we can. That's just how we can maintain the sustainability of the years that are coming. I fully support the Svein Roald Hansen of the Workers' Party, who earlier today asked for answers on how to interpret the rest of the Stortinget's cut in the EEA funds, if we are obliged to pay through international agreements. Should we break an agreement we have entered into? Or are we going to draw Norway out of the EEA Agreement with a pen stroke? Even the party leader did not have an answer. I understand that this is difficult for the Center Party. I understand that it is difficult when there is a majority of their own voters to remain in the EEA. I understand that it is difficult to go out to the business community in the district and say that you want to break the agreement that gives access to the customers. And I understand at least that it's going to be difficult when, at the top, targeted and systematic, taxes on Norwegian-owned companies are increasing in Norway. The centre party, which is otherwise so afraid of the rest of the world and in rhetoric will put Norway first, does not seem to care so much about putting Norwegian business owners last. To top it all, there is no great interest in making the paper mill less for business when the appropriations for those who work with digitisation in the state are cut by 1.7 billion. kr. I guess digital solutions have never been the Senterpartie brand either. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. The government of Solberg, with its four parties, rules the country with a steady hand. This is not the time in another uncertain world to test out what a red-green cracking government project will lead to for Norwegian jobs and people's wallets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2397	Freedom of individuals is a fundamental value of the Advance Party. Freedom of choice and dignity are important for individuals. Here there is a clear distinction between the Progress Party and the Left in Norwegian policy. Where we think that each person is best able to make choices on behalf of himself and his family, we see the left-hand side thinking that they're better at making these choices for people. Freedom of choice is a fundamental value for most people. Every day, we get to make small and big decisions. We believe that this freedom of choice in the Progress Party should be extended to include the services received from the public, whether it is a matter of choosing kindergarten for their children, the hospital in which you are to be treated, or the hospital in which our elderly people are to live and live. The ability and desire of ordinary people to decide what is right for themselves and their closest ones does not change when you get older and needy. In 2016, only five municipalities were allowed to choose a nursing home for the elderly. 26 municipalities have introduced free user choice in their home health care. This means that almost all municipalities in Norway today do not get the older freedom of choice. In Oslo, the left side's witch hunt for private operators has gone so far as to alert Unicare yesterday that they are now giving up. For many years they have operated five nursing homes in Oslo, nursing homes with which the elderly have been well pleased, but the socialists, with the Workers' Party at the head, have frozen them out. I think that is very regrettable. The Progress Party will see more municipalities that give older real freedom of choice, not fewer. Therefore, it has been important for the Progress Party to establish a reward scheme in which the municipalities that introduce freedom of choice in the care of the elderly receive NOK 500000. Indeed, the Advancement Party believes that our older ones deserve dignity and freedom of choice. The free choice of users is that older people who are in need of help are able to choose for themselves which actor to deliver home care to them, whether public or private. The Progress Party has been fighting for years to strengthen patients’ rights and freedom to choose which treatment site to use. This has been introduced by this government. Many patients have been waiting for treatment for too long while there has been a lack of capacity in both public and private treatment sites. Through free treatment choices, patients decide by whom they will be treated. In fact, hospitals have gone down under this government. From 2013 to 2019 the waiting time has decreased by 11 days, and there are 63 000 fewer hospital queues now than when we took over in 2013. It is precisely because it has made use of the capacity that has been available. The progress party would have liked to have seen that the hospitals were even better off buying free capacity from private operators to get the queues further down. This government will treat several patients in hospitals, improve the quality of treatment and reduce waiting time. The government has achieved good results. Our choice of solutions actually works. But I'm worried about the future when I see what the Workers' Party and the Centre are proposing in their alternative budget. Both the Workers' Party and the Centre are choosing to abolish free treatment choices and will thus strangle people's ability to decide for themselves where they want their health services. Free treatment options were introduced for the benefit of patients. By the end of the second tertiary in 2019, over 25 000 patients had come to health care more quickly or had their own choice of institution with the best offer. More and more people are using this scheme. The number of persons using the scheme has almost doubled in the last year only. Several patients have become aware of the scheme and take advantage of the freedom of choice that we have introduced and that the Workers' Party and the Centre will remove. Most people actually don't like being told what's best for them, as the Workers' Party and the Center Party seem to believe. Most people can and will decide for themselves. We know that more than 30 pst. by its older beneficiaries of municipal health and care services are undernourished or at risk of becoming such. We'll do something about that. In the state budget, the government is adding up to a commitment of 400 million. kr for the period 2019-2023 to be used to bring the kitchen back to hospital. The party of progress is not only concerned with good, nutritious food for the elderly, but also with the fact that our older people will have a safe and worthwhile old age. Everyone deserves good and worthy services, no matter where you live in the country. Therefore, we are now extending the state-funded elderly care experiment to a further six municipalities from 2020. It is alarming that the left side does not appear to be equally concerned with the quality of the services offered to our older people. Through its alternative budget, both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party propose to abolish state-funded care for the elderly. I do not want politicians who will decide on people's lives and how ordinary people should live their lives. Therefore, I and the Progress Party believe that freedom of choice for people is most important, and the continuation of free treatment choices, the extension of free choice and freedom of choice in the care of the elderly is essential for us to live our lives as we want, and not as best suited to the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2423	In Norway, people live everywhere – fortunately. We're a country with work and housing all over the country. It is the foundation of a strong community, and it is the foundation of our common identity. Future faith locally makes Norway better at national level. That is why the Workers' Party is both a party of cities and districts. For generations, we have shown that Norway succeeds best when we stand together – city and country hand in hand. All residents of Norway use municipal and county welfare services every day — children in kindergarten and school, young people in secondary education and new parents in the health centre. We have older people who need hospitalization or care at home. Otherwise we all drink clean water supplied by the municipal waterworks. In the Workers' Party, we believe that there are still major unsolved tasks in key welfare areas for which the municipalities are responsible, but this government has a different policy. In the government budget for 2020, the government presents the worst financial situation for the free income in the municipal sector we have seen in the last 15 years – a real growth of only 0.3 p.m., according to the government’s own figures. The government does not equip the municipalities for the changes they face in the next few years. In order to strengthen the well-being of the country as a whole, the Labour Party believes that we need a strong and predictable local economy. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we propose to increase the free income of the municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr in relation to the government's proposal. We will strengthen the ability of counties to provide secondary education and to provide good collective services. That's why we're increasing the frame by 500 million. kr. We will protect the weakest and most helpful by strengthening the top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services of 350 million. kr, as opposed to the government, which weakens it. Not least, we are committed to facilitating further value creation and use of resources across the country. That's why we're going to increase regional development funds by 200 million. kr. This year it was local. All over the country, new people elected to the task of ambitions, ideas and projects for the benefit of the citizens they represent. Unfortunately, many of them feel that the government framework for the local economy does not allow the measures to be implemented. On the contrary, we have heard many examples here today. Let me add to my own. In Arendal, 100 million must be cut. kr, which affects important welfare services in the municipality. In the newly established Kinn municipality, it has to be cut about 80 million. kr. There they cut into positions at school and have to post the investment needed to provide better welfare services. In East Finland, municipalities have to cut to 110 million. kr. And the list is longer. Nevertheless, we have heard time and time again from this pulpit so far today – and we are sure to hear it several times – that the local economy is better than ever. The high and clear impression is that this is the government's profit. What's right is that a lot of municipalities have had profits in recent years. Extraordinary non-recurring income, inter alia: as a result of tax adjustments and lower pension and demographic costs, the reasons for good economic performance are: We are all pleased that several municipalities have come out of the ROBEK list and have paid off debts, but this is not because of the government's policy. It's despite the government's policy. These are incomes received by the municipalities for which the government did not foresee or plan. When we dealt with the state budget for the current year, the government's policy was to give total growth in the free income in the municipal sector estimated at minus 0.2 pst. on average for 2018 and 2019, as a whole. But the government is grossly blaming the tax estimates and is rescued by the fact that municipalities receive extraordinary one-off income – not because of, but despite the government's policy. And that's the problem. As a community elected to a municipality or county, you can't plan people's operation and employment to provide services to the population based on money you don't know if you get it. It is directly illegal and contrary to municipal law. You can't recruit teachers and employees in kindergarten or start activities for the elderly with money you don't have. We have more ambitions in the Labour Party than the government – for better quality in welfare, care and school in the municipal sector. This is why we have a sharp increase in the growth in the income of municipalities and counties. With our approach, municipalities would have the opportunity to invest in several kindergartens, improve school quality, provide more teachers and early work, strengthen care for the elderly and carry out preventive health work. With our scheme, we would strengthen, not weaken, the community across the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2440	This is the first budget in many years that the Christian People's Party has presented as part of a government, and therefore it is extra happy to raise the government's strengthened efforts on the families and to highlight just why the Christian People's Party's policies for children and families have been shaped by this budget. Investing in children and families is investing in the future. Child welfare is the single social welfare that is likely to be most important for fewer children to grow up in low-income families, and here the Christian People's Party has been given an impact of historical character, because in March the families experienced the first increase in child welfare of over 20 years. Not enough – in this budget, we are following up on a further increase, so that families with children up to six years of age now get $3,600 extra a year. That increase will be very dear to those who experience having a stressed family economy. Children in Norway shall not be excluded from recreational activities because of the size of their parents’ wallet. Times have changed, and children’s leisure and social activities have been organised. But when we know how important participation in leisure activities is to their experience of community, mastering, joy and belonging, we must make sure that absolutely everyone can participate. That's why I'm proud that we're in this budget of 60 million. kr to launch more pilot schemes for the leisure card around municipalities in 2020. It'll mean a lot too many, and I'm glad to see the results of that bet. We also see that the pressure on families is increasing from the community around them. Recently, we've seen games that encourage women to work during leave. This certainly does not help many political parties to send strong signals that women should get to work more quickly, that families should not be able to avail themselves of schemes that increase their freedom of choice, and that the State and the public should take on important tasks for families. This pressure is what the last families need. Here, too, there is a clear ideological difference in the view of families, because when the other parties in their alternative budgets propose to remove the cash support on the grounds that it hinders the working line, the families are only reduced to a means of achieving the opposition's objectives. Rather, the Christian People's Party will remove obstacles that stand in the way of building strong families, for families are an end in themselves. We want to strengthen the families, not control them. Those of us who have been so lucky to have children know that it is perhaps the most amazing thing you can experience in life. At the same time, we are many who can sign that infanthood and baby life are not necessarily a history of sunshine. You get your life turned upside down. With nightstands, breast-feeding, maybe colic gray, root, new family economy, much more tasks to cooperate on, and much less time together as a couple are many who feel that the first time with children is the biggest test pair relationship going through. That is why I am pleased that the government through this budget is offering all the first-born offers of a course of life. Some claim that offering such a life course is moralistic, but I don't understand that. Why shouldn't we try to give people the tools they need in a vulnerable phase of life? Both in society and at times a breakup is a fact, children will benefit from parents ’ ability to communicate with each other. Therefore, it is not moralistic, but rather very wise to support a good life for newly-baked parents. This is precisely what the Christian People's Party's family policy is about – strengthening families and parents to be there for the children as safe and good support players. Through our policies, we will give priority to families. We want to talk them and family life up every time we get the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2461	Social health inequalities are increasing during this government. We are facing elections in health and welfare policy. One can choose to go in a direction where the educational level of parents and the wallet will determine more and more the future, health and freedom of children. A person may choose to go in a direction that makes mental illness more likely to be felt in the lower income or that people with lower education may not experience being as healthy grandparents as those with high education. The list is long, but fortunately also the list of solutions is quite long. For they exist – they exist in all parts of our society, both inside and outside our common healthcare. The working party will fight against increased disparities and Community solutions. Differences in health and mortality increase daily with this government at the wheel. We refuse to accept that, we choose differently. Health is created where people live their lives – in schools, in the workplace and in the community. We need to prevent and repair, but always – always – with an idea of equality and justice in everything we do. If you get sick, you should be able to rely on the community to set up. That's why we're putting a total of three billion. to hospitals in 2020. That's $1.42. kr more than the government, because that's what it takes for us to, among other things. be able to invest in strengthening ambulance services, ensuring food supply throughout the country and providing sound mental health protection to those who are struggling. When the number of patients in need of good care in our hospitals grows at a higher rate than the appropriations, it leads us towards a more two-part healthcare service where the wallet determines who gets the best health. The fixed medical system is the very foundation of our common healthcare system. The scheme was introduced by the Workers' Party and gives all the inhabitants of the country their own doctors their lives through. Half of the municipalities now have difficulty recruiting and retaining permanent doctors. It hits both in the village and in the city. The government has brought the system into a deep crisis. Local communities around the country are shouting warnings, and the Workers' Party is listening to this. Our option is to double the government's efforts: 200 more specialist general practitioners, 100 more turn positions to increase the number of qualified doctors, and 100 million. kr more to reduce the list length for doctors with particularly challenging chronic patients. We also want to organise a video consultation for fixed doctors and better financing of the more complex tasks transferred from our hospitals. We face two key challenges in future health and care services that are a demanding match: the ageing wave – the growing number of good adults – and the simultaneous lack of enough people to take care of these older people. In 15 years we may lack 18 000 health professionals and 28 000 nurses. We are already seeing a sharp increase in temporary farming. A full With $2.50 a.m. In addition to earmarked resources to train more people and to employ them in full positions, we are putting real solutions on the table for the future care of the elderly and the health care of the future. We have a choice. The Workers' Party selects the balancing of health differences and equal access to the service over tax cuts, thoughtless efficiency and cheese requirements over public budgets. The Labour Party chooses to invest where we need to ensure good health and quality of life for everyone – regardless of social status, income and level of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2477	Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in, with little differences and high trust between people. We must never take that for granted, and in order to ensure the well-being of the future we must create more – behind the cake bigger. This is why it is good that over 50,000 new jobs have been created in Norway in the last year. More and more people are coming to work, both in number and proportion of the population. Unemployment has not been so low in ten years. That more people contribute to our common well-being is a sign of health. The Norwegian economy is going well, both in the city and the countryside. At the same time, it is important in good times to show accountability. That's why we're holding back the use of oil money and using the tax money more wisely and smarter. With the Right people will get more creative, not taxed in the heel, and Norway will be one of the world's best countries to start and run business. We are well in the process of closing down the wealth tax, because it is quite unreasonable for local fire companies, such as Bryne incubators and hotels and the industrial companies on the Jären, to have to pay a penalty tax that the foreign competitors avoid. We also remove the unforeseeable machine tax and can already see the effect – with large investments and new jobs in the districts. We continue to press full pressure on sea wind and carbon capture to create new jobs offshore on the shoulders of Norwegian oil and gas, and we are increasing the investment capital of the renewable Nysnø fund. The founding company Justify in Stavanger digitises and simplifies the access of ordinary people to legal services. They started a year ago and already have nine employees. When the government budget came, they could cheer, for once again the government is expanding the option tax system. This means in practice that several employees can become co-owners in their own company. Not least, this means that entrepreneurs, which rarely can offer the same wages as large, established companies, can still compete, grow and attract the best employees. The other day, I also visited the Depro industrial company, which told me how important the TaxFunn scheme was for increased competitiveness and for developing new products. Now we're strengthening the order by 150 million. kr, which will provide even more research and innovation in enterprises. Visiting the business community Innovation Dock in Stavanger, several entrepreneurs also highlighted the importance of Innovation Norway's Innovation Fund scheme. The government is now strengthening this scheme by 200 million. kr, and it will contribute to more innovation and mobilisation of private capital. We have to create more, not just more treasure. That is why I am very pleased that the government shows that we are holding back money and prioritizing job creation first. For this is the only way to ensure a sustainable welfare society for both the present and the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2493	A strong public health service is a foundation in the welfare state that makes Norway Norway, from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. It concerns the security of communities, the proximity of food departments, the determination of all, ambulances coming, and quality care for the elderly. It is about a public health service that is present for people, close to people, who have confidence, provide security and is a guarantee that the welfare state ensures equivalent health services regardless of whether one cage, south or north, whether one is rich or poor, and that is a guarantee against the development of a two-part healthcare system. 62 pst. of the population think that today we have a two-part health care system, that the personal economy has a meaning for how good treatment is. The government’s policy of centralisation and privatisation of healthcare services is a driver for this. The center party will reverse this development, and we have the people with us. Many fight with us for a well-publicised and decentralised health care system, which does not accept that sick children in the north have to wait because the air ambulance is standing, which does not accept the closure of maternity wards, which beat the dressing gowns to win the fight, and which does not accept billions of investment in new hospitals in Gaustad, a hospital that the professional community does not want. Soon the torch train comes up Karl Johan, towards the closure of Ullevål Hospital. The centre party's alternative budget is a budget for a strong public health system. Our goal for health policy is to create health-promoting societies, prevent disease and reduce social health inequalities. It is a budget for a preventive health care system, where the most important thing is to avoid people becoming sick, where we prioritise money for activities such as physical activity in the school, free fruit and green to students, health centres and increased outdoor spending. The Central Party's alternative budget is a budget that strengthens public hospitals by 1 billion. kr. We want to stop the centralization and closure of ambulance stations, increase the staffing of the maternity wards and ensure the follow-up service. Ensuring Norwegian women a safe supply of birth and maternity is a political responsibility. The government’s tight hospital economy – with a high level of price financing – contributed to the opposite. This cannot continue. The Central Party's alternative budget is a budget for a better mental health protection, which is the loser in the government called the patient's health service: more resources for district psychiatric centres, for child and youth psychiatry, and for a long-term commitment to a mental health service for children in child protection and mental health care for prisoners in Norwegian prisons. This is the great need for us to give priority to the most important thing. The stipulation is the root wall of the healthcare system. She stands for 90 pst. of all activity. Now, the system in Norway is in crisis. Scratch the medical system, also rakes the health service in the municipality. In municipalities all over the country, there is now a warning, because they do not get searchers for free homes. Experienced individuals quit – or evaluate it. This situation requires action. Unfortunately, the government does not take this responsibility seriously. The government's proposal for a government budget is suspended most of the action until 2021. There will be an action plan for this first spring, but it will be too late, it will need action now. A fixed job averaged 55.6 hours a week. To site Marit Tuv, set up in Valdres, in the newspaper Day 29 August last year: «We are not burdened by you and your troubled everyday life, your quarrelling back, your increased blood sugar, your growing stomach or your need for safe contraception and cell test. We are congested because we are responsible for a lot of things like you." That's right. For this reason, the Central Party has taken action in its alternative state budget. We'll bet on the real estate. We are giving priority to 400 new generals in specialisation to strengthen the fixed medical system next year. If we are to secure a strong public health system, and the fixed system, we need a completely different political priority. The central party is showing the way for this in its alternative state budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2513	It's exciting times for Norwegian school. Professional renewal is to be rolled out, curricula are to be new. Even the Supreme Minister of Knowledge is cheering for more play and more practical school. I'm also happy, the innovation will give us slimmer curricula and fewer skills goals. There will be more time for in-depth learning, and multidisciplinary work will raise democracy, citizenship, sustainable development, public health and lifelong learning. This might be good. But there is also cause for concern. I'm worried that the good intentions are actually going to mean changes for students and teachers in the classroom. This government must stop believing that it can bring about such great changes for the school without paying for it, and the state budget is unfortunately gloomy reading. Schools get enormously short time to make big changes, without money and time to do the necessary job. There is not enough funding available for the purchase of new learning material, there is no time for training and preparation for teachers, and there is a need for a change of pace to get a good school digitisation. It is a pity that the good, comprehensive proposals of the Workers' Party on this subject are being voted down today. The consequence of this, that the government doesn't give priority, I think there may be greater differences between the municipalities and between the schools in the extent of the changes in trade union renewal. For many years, the Labour Party has fought for a more practical school with more games for the younger and more practical learning. Slimmers and more clear curricula are good, but if students in classrooms around Norway will notice the difference, it remains to be seen. This government must stop believing that it can introduce major changes in the school without paying for it. New curricula are only an important first step, and it is even more important to have enough teachers, proper equipment and up-to-date teaching materials, as the Labour Party proposes in its budget. We want a massive effort to recruit new teachers, a boost in the local economy that had enabled one to employ more teachers, introduce our early-action reform – a read, write and calculate guarantee – to ensure the youngest children who are on the job, the help they need. We also want an equipment promise both in high school and in high school. These grips have never been more important, because there are clouds in the horizon. That's when we have to take the necessary steps to reverse the trend one sees in school, because Norwegian school is facing a serious shortage of teachers, and the problem will only increase in the years to come. Too few apply to teacher training, especially in the early stages of their childhood, and the teaching standard reinforces the challenge of recruitment, especially in the districts. Recently, the Khrono website reported that there are 349 empty study places on teacher training. These are just the symptoms of something bigger, because we're expected to lack 5,800 qualified teachers in 2040, according to the SSB. The proportion of unqualified is now the highest in over 15 years — an increase of almost 50 pst. since the right took over the governance in 2013. In recent years, several unqualified people have been involved in teaching to cover their teaching shortages. Half of the hours of special education in primary school are now carried out by assistants who are not qualified to teach. Fortunately, the Workers' Party controls most Norwegian municipalities, and a large number of Workers' Party-led municipalities now employ more teachers, as in Ålesund and here in Oslo. But the local government economy is so tight that there's no room to hire enough teachers. It is a pity that our alternative municipal structure is being voted down today. I would also like to comment on the statements made by the Minister of Knowledge. Right try to draw a contrast between learning and well-being, but there's no difference here. Early school effort has been one of the main issues of the Workers' Party for many years and still is. Our grip is a solid read, write and calculate guarantee. The working party has never voted against prioritising reading, writing and billing; that claim is directly incorrect. One can turn it around a little bit like that, because the bourgeois parties have, on the other hand, six times voted against our proposal to introduce a read, write and calculate guarantee. That criticism is a little bit like throwing a stone in a glass house. The councils themselves welcomed the renewal of the trade union and said that now there is more play and more practical school. But it wasn't even 24 hours before the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde let it eagerly die and demanded a more one-sided bet on learning from the Workers' Party – a play that perhaps most of all seems to be a disappointment that the Right lost the election. But it also reveals a fundamental difference between the knowledge view between the Right and the Workers' Party, between the Right's narrower dorm and the Workers' Party's broader knowledge view, where one will see each individual student. I believe that there is no contradiction between school food and learning, between well-being and knowledge, or between more trust in those who are going to do the job and good school management. We in the Workers' Party have brought the best from both sides, and we can afford to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2532	When the government of Solberg took over in 2013, then Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and the head of defence started a full review of the state of things in the Defence. The result was discouraging. There was an unpaid bill of $180 billion. NOK, without a plan to pay it. The time of fortifications and displacement of the situation in the defence was definitely over. The government took hold of the situation, and step by step the defense is now restored. The head of defense says in his professional counsel that the defense is now strengthened in several fields and will be further in the years to come. The Workers' Party's alternative budget in the defence sector is a foment of broken promises. There is no agreement between what the Workers' Party has promised in advance, and what the Workers' Party actually does in its budget. In 2018, the Workers' Party came forward in the VG with a big look-up – they were going to go into the second-hand market and buy new Bell helicopters. Then came the budget for 2019 – no sign of Bell helicopters. Then there will be an election campaign in the year of the Lord 2019. The working party is still out and says that now you are going to buy Black Hawk helicopters. Then comes the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2020 – there is no sign of investment for Black Hawk helicopters. The working party has made it its parade to criticise the government for not accelerating investment into tanks. That's what you've been doing for three years. Then came last year's budget. That's where the Workers' Party put $70 million. kr for tanks. It went to a 3⁄4 tank. This year we have completely capitulated: there is no means for tanks. The positive thing is that the Workers' Party's alternative budget in the defence sector is – for all practical purposes – a total commitment to the government's budget. Let me illustrate: the Labour Party has criticised the government for not reaching the 2-percentile as quickly as the Labour Party seems to want. Then the budget comes to the Workers' Party. A defence budget with a share of 1.81 pst is presented. of gross domestic product, i.e. an increase of one hundred percent points in relation to what this government has. It really promises well for the time we have ahead of us, when we're going to start negotiating the long-term plan for the next period. When the Workers' Party is so close to the government in defence policy, there should be hope that we will be able to do something when that time comes. Both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have proposed cuts to Defence Building. The consequence of this is that work on object protection will be directly affected. It criticized the Workers' Party – and almost to an even greater extent the Center Party – the government for, even the party leader Schlagsvold Vedum spoke about mistrust proposals against the government. The consequence is that social security is weakened by this cut by the Workers' Party. Then I have to say that the most real-world cut opposition does in the defence budget, it's the center party that stands for. The center party is proposing to cut 337 million. kr in the extension of Evenes. The natural, logical consequence of this would have been to set aside about the same amount of liability that the state would incur by breaking contracts already entered into. At least some funds should have been allocated to Andøya to receive and operate the new P-8A Poseidon aircraft. This government has increased the defence budget by 30 pst. since 2013. It is recognised that the security of the inhabitants and the security of the country are the most important task of the country. It is a little timely to recall that in the financial debate, which could in many ways have changed the name of the welfare debate, because there is an ongoing competition to grant the most for all kinds of welfare purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2551	Speaking of the representative of Rivers, it may be difficult to see what is the government’s paradigm — at least if you are studying the budget. At least it's not defense, but it's not the ability to create jobs either. The goal of the Labour Party is very clear: we want to create a more fair and climate-friendly society, where more people are given the opportunity to work. We need to facilitate the development of future-oriented and climate-rich industrial enterprises, but also industrial enterprises that can produce goods and services that will increase export revenue and stabilise the foundation of our welfare society. Erik Brofoss, as Norwegian Minister of Finance in the 1940s, said: "Let us always bear in mind that we live by each other's work, and I underline each other's work, not others'." With a falling employment rate, we now lack 50 000 employees to be on average in the last ten years. In other words, more lives on the work of others than on the work of each other. And there's reason to be concerned. The government's industrial policy is almost absent. Where efforts should be stepped up, efforts, for example in the case of the Investinor, are weakened, where the government proposed to change the mandate for direct investment – and to prevent direct investment. Where the government should cooperate with the industry, they push the industry away. We must have a dialogue with the industry, said the representative Asheim at the outset in the debate today, while his dear right-wing government is doing the opposite. When the government now proposes to wind up the exemption from the CO 2 tax for a number of important industrial enterprises around the country, they make everyday life more difficult and the prospects for the future more demanding. Many businesses and hundreds of employees face unsafe times. As a contrast to the government, the Workers' Party will invite to an agreement with the same industry. We believe that the state in partnership with industry will just be a good solution and could reduce greenhouse gas emissions through agreements. Managing Director of Norsk Industrie, Stein Lier-Hansen, wrote the following about this: ‘The consequences can be so dramatic that industrial production as we need for the green shift will not be able to develop further in Norway. This is a hopeless climate policy and a miserable business policy.’ 'Hopeless climate policy and poor industrial policy' is a relatively sharp but striking description of what the government actually does. Metallco Aluminium is located on West Toten and has 24 employees. The company produces secondary aluminium and casting alloys from aluminium scrap. This company's going to have $3 million. kr in increased expenditure. In the case of Benteler Automotive on Raufoss, world leader in lightweight, safety and collision protection of cars, the new CO 2 tax will apply 5 million to the company. kr in increased expenditure. The whole foundry activity based on the recycling of aluminium. Figjo is a family-owned porcelain producer, located on Figjo outside Stavanger: 85 employees, 850 000 kroner in extra costs due to the CO 2 tax. These are enterprises that live their lives in the circular economy, businesses and productions that are now penalised without the option available. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get Yara's ammonia production on the island of Porsbön gets, with its 65 employees, maybe as much as 25 million. kr in increased expenditure each year. To Telemarksavisa, the Minister of Industry said something very alarming when he was asked about this. He said, ‘Industry is part of the future and I am not concerned about closures because of precisely this change.’ «Precisely this change», it sounds as if he were de minimis of 25 million. kr on the bottom line of an industrial holding employing 65 persons already living on the margins. Does the Minister of Industry realize what $25 million. kr is? And does he understand what he's doing when he makes such statements? He realizes what $25 million. Is there an increase in Benteler's costs, which each day struggles with the margins of its competition for market shares in Europe? Did the Minister of Industry put in budgetary negotiations when the government adopted this? Did the Minister of Economic Affairs say he wasn't worried at the time? In that case, the Minister of Industry is in the wrong place. He then lacks a complete understanding of the needs of industry and industry. Similarly, the Prime Minister said earlier today that ‘we have a range of instruments’ — very proud, apparently. It helps little with pious words and fans as long as the will and understanding are not present at all, at least not to the industrial companies. That's why we live at a time when more people live by the work of others – unfortunately completely unnecessary – but because of government policies it's not to be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2592	We live in a safe and good country that goes well. The total number of unemployed is 2.2 pst, which is lower than when we took over the red-green parts. Norway is doing well — both in central and districts. We have municipalities that introduce property taxes or increase them, and we have municipalities that reduce or liquidate them. And even better: We have many municipalities that agree with the Progress Party that your house is a home and not a tax item. Therefore, for the Progress Party, the impact of a reduction in the maximum property tax rate is very important. The economy of municipalities is better than it is for a long time. By the end of 2013, 46 municipalities in Norway were on the ROBEK list, against only ten municipalities now. While the number of full-time peasants under red-green rule sank by nearly 50 pst., the number under this government has increased by nearly 5 pst. Over our period of government, there have been averages of eleven small cross-border schools this year. Under the red-green government, the number was more than twice as high each year. There were twice as many hospital emergencies and three times as many maternity wards under red-green control as under this government. The figures show that this government is taking the whole country with it. With this budget, this government has made sure that the municipalities have a total of 30 billion. kr more. The red-green government also had its annual review of various welfare schemes. They discontinued grants to PCs for children with learning disabilities, stopped indexing housing support and discontinued the tax deduction for them with special large costs of illness, to mention something. Did they do so because they were an unsocial government? According to them themselves, it was completely different. But when this government puts its foot down and says that opticians can't have suction pipes down into the treasury, to stick to the socialists' own language, this is consistently unsocial. For me, good economic policy is to have minimum bureaucracy, fair arrangements and a favourable tax and tax profile. This gives growth to businesses, and more employees. This in turn brings increased taxes and a people who participate in society rather than standing on the outside and raising unemployment. Low taxes also provide the individual with the opportunity to obtain and maintain owner-occupied housing, make their own choices for their own life and security in everyday life. All in all, I am grateful on behalf of our citizens that over the years we have been able to make the municipalities stronger and the hospital cows shorter, closed the payroll queue, got psychologists, physiotherapists, health nurses and ergot therapists out into the municipalities and provided low immigration and low unemployment, while the taxes are cut by more than 25 billion. kr. By 2020, we will reach the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants, and the transport budget has increased by a total of 80 pst. Goods have to move fast, and ordinary people have to have safe roads. This should also make the opposition happy. We're a rich country, but that doesn't mean we can give the bluff in meeting the future like any other country has to do. Businesses also reorganize and think new. Individuals do the same thing. In addition, our country needs a sustainable immigration policy. The costs of immigration and an increasing proportion of older people put the Norwegian welfare model to the test. It is important to pursue an asylum policy that keeps the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection as low as possible in order to use the resources of asylum seekers with protection needs and quota refugees. In government, the Progress Party has achieved a stronger immigration policy. It has given the lowest asylum flow in 20 years. And we have provided for the forced return of over 41,000 illegal immigrants. That is why we will receive 3,000 new quota refugees in 2020. In this budget, we are strengthening integration, while removing or reducing a number of special advantages that refugees have had in the fear of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2617	Over a hundred years ago, the British upper class of the Norwegian Mountain Home, which they looked at in the best imperialist style, as if it were a playstone. After having discovered and conquered the Norwegian mountains, they wrote travel descriptions about the great doctor and undiscovered nature and these a little strange people who offered in District Norway. The parallel of British upper class is quite obvious when one sees what the Right Party is trying on the home page say now, with an article about Right as the best district party. The article is primarily a defensive script that is more than an attempt at national romantic spin – little text and little politics, but with a large image of mountains, fjords and pristine nature. But this is where the Right People reveal themselves and how they actually think: that District Norway is just a set of postcard motifs, a backdrop, a playhole where the upper class can have their cabins, drag on oval weekend ends, reach the top of the tines and turn on the chest with the alms they add to the building originals that have not yet figured out how to get away from it. The problem is that the typical woman or man in the district is not the farmer who sold the garden to the cabin field and now makes ends meet by mowing and cleaning the roof runs to the cabin people. It's the traveler at Brunvoll in Volda, who's standing at an airport somewhere in the world, checking in his tool, it's the craftsman at Ekorenes in Sykylven, who uses high-tech robots to build furniture for export to China and the United States, and it's the smoker at Nekton on Smøla, who has bred eggs, melted and slaughtered salmon for sale all over the world. Nikers-Right is a special interest for rich people and will never be trusted in district policy – because they do not understand these contexts, that it is not immoderate to live in the districts. But it's very immature to look at the districts as something different. Districts don't need Oslo almissaries, they need an active enterprise policy to build on all the creativity and developments that are already taking place. Decentralized Norway is a success story, it's not a cost item on the state budget, but on the very basis of our wealth, our wealth and our national identity. The Labour Party has always been a party for both cities and districts. It also shows our priorities when we now present our budget option for 2020, a budget for ordinary people, with objectives of a fairer and climate-friendly Norway, where more people get opportunities to work. In the budget, we see how we would spend the money and bet on the district if we were the one who directed. We suggest billions more to municipalities and counties and a billion more to hospitals. We propose a marked strengthening of the budgets for midwife services in the municipalities, training in the districts, broadband development and charging stations in the districts, reduced ticket prices, strengthened route provision on the FOT routes, ferry and climate-friendly conversion, travel, flood and tailoring, police and courts, coastal and maritime freight measures and a follow-up to the Cultural promise with a further commitment to culture and volunteering throughout the country. In contrast to the Workers' Party's district bet, we see a right government that has started a savoury feeding of municipalities and counties. Yesterday there was a meeting in the County Committee in More and Romesdal. There will be pretty tough times for school pupils and for all those who depend on a ferry to commute to work. Other Western countries have warned to cut hundreds of trillions, Nordic countries have dramatic cuts ahead, and then we haven't even started talking about the situation in health services. But that's the way it is. District policies and right-wing policies are like fire and water, and now the districts only have to endure until we can once again get a government that understands what Norway is — a community of cities and built with living communities across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2634	This is a budget that once again leads Norway in the wrong direction, which does not take advantage of the opportunities we have as a country to make our country more fair, inclusive and more climate friendly. On the contrary, we have received another State budget from Siv Jensen, which after seven years has given great tax relief to those who have the most, while those who have little have had to endure cutbacks. In the past, we have been cut off from the children of the disabled, cut off the culture of the elderly and cut off the holiday money for the unemployed. So this year, there were children with glasses or regulations who had to wear the cuts in order for the government to be able to finance its tax cuts. You can accuse this government too much, but no one should say that they're not creative in finding new groups that have to tolerate petty cuts. This was the budget to ensure that we achieve the climate targets for 2020. The climate agreement was concluded in 2012. In 2013, the right-hand side took over. They not only promised that they would achieve the goals, they said they would strengthen them. Now, seven years later, we have the fasit. There was no reinforcement, there was a breakdown. We're not near being there. The working party thinks we have to think again. So we've not only made our own budget, we've also made a budget for climate that shows how we're going to achieve all of the cuts that we've committed ourselves to. Where the government wants to buy allowances abroad to get free, we want to invest in Norway. In our budget, we show how we are planning today to halve emissions over the next ten years. We want to invest in new technology so we can create jobs across the country. Norway can never compete for the lowest wage, but we should be able to compete for the best climate and environmental profile. We want Norway to go ahead in capturing and storing CO2. It will mean a lot to our own Norwegian emissions, but it could also mean that we will be able to build technology that will mean a lot to the whole world. Here the government has provided little other than a party speaker. We've already had postponements, and it's announced that it can be another year. But the climate crisis cannot afford new releases from Erna Solberg and Ola Elvestuen. The working party will invest in environmentally friendly transport that will get people where they are going, in a faster and better way, but with lower climate emissions. That is why we want a major effort on environmentally friendly ferries and on public transport. With the starvation given to county politicians, they are in these days and have to choose whether to cut in the collective offer or in high school classes. It is cut they would not have had to do if the budget of the Workers' Party were adopted. We will also set up a CO2 fund for business transport, so that we can get environmentally friendly trucks. Here, the NHO, the LO and the environmental movement are ready, but the government has chosen to click the door again for them all. This is bad climate policy, and it is bad business policy. Our policy is green because it cuts emissions, and it's red because it does it in a fair way. Because if we are to succeed in the enormous transformation that Norway is going through, people must feel that it is going on in a fair way. That's why we're saying we're going to have more electric cars on the roads. In 2025 only new electric cars are to be sold. We do not believe it is right that those who buy the most expensive cars should do so without paying a kroner in VAT. People pay VAT when they're going to buy bicycles, milk or coffee, but they're not going to do it when they're going to buy a Porsche for a million dollars. We say it's always worth choosing environmentally friendly, but we want to end the sponsorship of the most expensive cars. Trine Skei Grande thought this was envy on the part of the Workers' Party, we believe it is an example of fair climate policy. This government is not arming Norway for the future. It increases the differences between people, between those living in the city, and those living in the district, between those born in Norway and those who have walked here, between those with high income and those with low income. And it doesn't equip Norway for the future when it doesn't have the ability to act in the climate battle. The result after this government is broken promises and no big lift. To solve our time's tasks, we need politicians with greater vision and more power of action. With the proposals of the Labour Party, Norway had gone a different way. It would have become more well-being, less differences, more jobs and less climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2658	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal is entertaining, but that's all he is. That gallery he pulled out as good representatives of the districts of Norway, I think was a great list. It seemed as if he were reading the lists of the leaders of the Right Local Team and the Right Rapporteurs around the whole of Norway. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. Unemployment is low, not least in the districts, and new jobs are created throughout the country. The government has therefore provided for a budget adapted to the economic situation in Norway, so as to avoid pressures in the economy. Nevertheless, the government has continued to give high priority to health. We use good times well and make large investments that ensure that we have sustainable health care in the future. This is an important premise to achieve the government's main objective of a sustainable welfare society. The main actions taken in the health budget will equip us for the future. We invest in digitisation, competence and new and modern hospital buildings. A key prerequisite for success in creating a sustainable and coherent healthcare service is digitisation and technology. Modern ICT solutions will provide healthcare professionals with access to the necessary patient information, improved interaction and up-to-date knowledge and decision-making support. The government therefore prioritises providing a significant boost to the national eHealth solutions. We propose, among other things: an additional 373 million. kr in the State budget of this area. One of the things that needs to be done is to: establish a national health analysis platform. This will contribute to better health research, more innovation and industrial development, and not least – the most important – more knowledge-based healthcare. Furthermore, we propose to establish a standardised code and terminology in the health and care sector, a standardised language in eHealth. This helps to provide the basis for using new e-health solutions, extended core journals and e-receptors. The government proposes 29.1 billion. kr in the loan framework for new Oslo University Hospital. It facilitates the construction of a new emergency hospital in Aker and a comprehensive and complete regional hospital, including local hospital facilities, in Gaustad. This is important not just for the inhabitants of Oslo and in Health South-East, this is important for the whole country. A collection of regional functions and specialised functions in Oslo will lead to a decrease in the need for health professionals in Oslo. Hospitals and residents throughout the country benefit. But there is a strong investment in new hospital buildings throughout the country, not just in Oslo. It is built or will be rebuilt in Narvik, Hammerfest, Bodø, Nordmøre and Romsdal, Haugesund, Stavanger, Drammen, Kristiansand and Tønsberg. A well-functioning fixed medical system is an important prerequisite for meeting the challenges of the future in healthcare. In the years ahead, even more tasks need to be done in municipal health services than at present. Although there has been a steady increase in the number of judges since the introduction of the fixed medical device in 2001, the challenge picture related to capacity and recruitment has become clearer. The government will present a separate action plan for general medical services in the municipalities in spring 2020. There we will point to measures to improve and ensure a modern and forward-looking general medical service. But we are not waiting for that, as far back as this year's budget is concerned, there is considerable investment in this area. We're proposing to allocate 350 million. kr to strengthen and further develop the fixed medical system. Of these, 190 is going to be million. kr for new actions, such as a grant scheme aimed at policyholders with many resource-intensive patients on their list, a new cooperation tariff, a grant scheme for permanent practitioners who are under specialisation in general medicine in municipalities with recruitment challenges, and the creation of several new ALIS offices both in Bodø, Trondheim, Bergen, Kristiansand and Hamar. The conversion we're facing, we can't afford to get out of it. We rely on new solutions that can close the gap between the need for resources and the availability of them. It's about working in new ways, using new technologies and, not least, mobilising the patient's own resources, and we're making it easier for the start of the year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2680	Yesterday, the Riksrevision came with warnings that a lack of staffing could have serious consequences for the services offered to the residents. Every sixth specialist nurse and midwife is over 60 years old and retires if not for long. At the same time, fewer midwives and specialised nurses than the candidate targets have been trained in the period 2014-2018. Hospitals do not have enough places of practice and do not create enough educational positions. Hospitals do not contribute enough to meet the future manning needs. Several places of study, several places of practice, several positions of staff and a staff of the food departments that make everyday life more durable are measures that the government should have put in place — but obviously not in this budget. How will the Council of State be able to ensure adequate staffing in the hospitals in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2685	I think the list that the representative comes with is a good list of many of the measures that the government has in this state budget as well as in the budget for this year. We are now increasing the educational capacity of the kind of specialist nurses that we have a great lack of. We ensure that there will be plenty of practice places in health regions, but it is also important that the university and higher education sectors follow up the candidate goals set by the government and for which they have received money. The personnel situation in the major food departments has been addressed. We have now set up our own professional selection under the direction of the Health Directorate, which is to present its proposal on 1 March, just to ensure that we have a crew and competence in the large food departments corresponding to the current situation among the natives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2690	For another matter in the budget that is adopted this year: the Council of State is committed to the tooth regulation bill of 130 million. kr, although the Health Directorate Working Group now recommends a lower cut of 78 million. kr, to allow greater scope for the use of discretion in the group that is now losing support with the government's proposals. Governments have stated that fewer with dental regulation will do wonders against body pressure. It is striking then that the Council of State determines that the government will continue to cut these 130 million. kr. It removes any doubt that this was purely economically motivated. So my question is, how is the savings going to be of 130 million? Is kr achieved? Will change in e.g. rates could also go beyond those groups of young people who have serious orthodontics challenges, as the Council of State has suggested in response to questions to the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2699	What has happened after the government presented the state budget is that we have agreed with the Dental Association that it is actually professionally right to make a strong tightening on dental regulation in Norway. I record that the Workers' Party has not taken this into account in its alternative budget. It surprises me that the Workers' Party will still push parents to implement dental regulation on children where the Dental Association agrees that this is unnecessary. Because that's what's real. It's the parents who take most of this bill, even if the government takes something. When the public informs them that this is something they cover, the impression of parents is that there is a well-founded dental regulation. It's not. It is cosmetically justified. I've never used words like "wonderful" – it's too strong a word to use. But that this is part of the body pressure, I am not in doubt about, and it surprises me that the Workers' Party still insists that the state should subsidize that kind of body pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2708	The government proposes that the country's largest emergency hospital, Ullevål Hospital, be closed down. In the state budget, it is added to a 30-billion-dollar loan framework. kr. This is Norway’s largest hospital extension, which is not sufficiently economically determined and not adequately assessed. There are strong warnings both from the affected trade unions in Oslo and from, for example, the play association at Aarhus and Akershus. A few weeks ago, there was a press conference in which representatives of the majority of Oslo City Council set up, among other things. three out of four governmental parties. Among other things, he said: Chairman of the Health and Social Committee of the City Council of Oslo, Aina Stenersen: ‘The incredibly beautiful professional environments to which the Minister of Health has not listened must be lifted.’ Why is the Minister for Health going beyond Oslo City Council, local representatives and the professional community in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2720	We need to take good care of the professional environment. Therefore, it is also true that in one area where one has not agreed on the functional distribution of the new hospital in Gaustad and Aker hospitals, i.e. within trauma, the work continues, just to try to find a common solution for what should be the division of tasks between the two hospitals. I am convinced that one can do so, because we have done so in the other areas. What's the big paradox in this case is that the Center Party is in favour of a model that would actually drain the rest of Norway for the kind of competence that many hospitals in the districts actually face in recruiting challenges. So here the Center Party stands for a hospital policy that would drain even more resources, even more professionals to the capital area, at the expense of the smaller hospitals in the districts. It surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2727	We have recently looked up the media about the mountain of so-called daily fines that the municipalities have to pay for the day-over at the hospitals, i.e. for patients the municipality is unable to take responsibility for as quickly as the specialist health service will. This is the top of the iceberg, which is actually called the State under-financing of the cooperation reform. Some municipalities, like my own municipality of residence Eidsvoll, have managed to reduce this burden. We'll accept when we're going, pretty much. But it also has its price. We don't find the surplus to do enough of all the other things we would like to do, and as the government also wants us to, not least bet on prevention, volunteering and close individual follow-up and organization in care. Operations usually involve minimum staffing, and non-statutory tasks often have to be cut. When will the government provide the municipalities with the means they need to follow up health policy priorities on which there is broad consensus and which are also government policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2736	This economic instrument was a very strong instrument introduced by the previous government, and as we see it has worked, by the fact that the municipalities have accepted patients faster than before. In cases where the municipalities do not accept the patients, they have to pay for this to the hospitals. In some cases it is right for the municipalities to do so. If the municipalities are not prepared to accept the patients, it is better that the municipalities pay the hospital for having the patients until they are ready to accept them. In other cases it's very unfortunate, because this is also what creates the challenge for the municipalities: if patients like the municipalities, who should have been in the hospital, don't get there because the hospital is filled with patients who were supposed to be in the municipalities. The municipalities received money from the hospitals when this reform was introduced, just to build up an offer. A good part of the offer for which the municipalities received money has either not been built up, or it has been under-used for many years. It's also part of this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2743	The cord shift is with the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2749	The climate challenge is today's challenge. As the transport sector is a non-negligible contributor to climate emissions, the transport sector is very important in reducing climate emissions. There is no doubt that when the Storting will adopt a new national transport plan in about a year and a half, the climate and emissions will be crucial when planning future transport policies. The same will probably be true of the use of new technologies in the transport industry. Now I'm not going to pre-empt the events and start discussing the next National Transport Plan, but it's quite obvious that if we're going to succeed in our work, we have to combine climate and nutrition. We need to cut emissions, and we need to create new jobs. It's future. The Workers' Party is a technology optimist, including in the transport sector. We're going to cut emissions, we're going to create new jobs, and we're going to provide good transport solutions for people and businesses. That is why the Workers' Party has a very offensive social budget for 2020, as we have had every year before. The working party is paying significantly more on trade than what the government parties and the majority of the population are doing. Earlier today, we heard Finance Minister Siv Jensen talk about road. Yes, road is important. Road is very important in Norway. But other modes of transport are also important in our country. These are coasts and ports, rail, airports and aviation, public transport and digital infrastructure and broadband development. I would like the Minister of Finance and others from the Government to talk more about the other modes of transport and do more for the other modes of transport. When we dealt with the National Transport Plan in 2017, the Workers' Party had four bet areas. It was rail and public transport, it was ports and maritime transport, it was safe roads, and it was broadband development. This has been followed up in the budgets for both 2018, 2019 and now for 2020. Norway is a coastal and maritime nation. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government is giving priority to the coast and the port. Yes, the government actually cuts the appropriations for the Coastal Plant from 2019 to 2020. The discussion in other areas is how much growth is going to be, but this is where the government cuts the appropriations for the Coastal Plant. It is completely wrong way to go. The Labour Party, unlike the government, will bet on the coast, and that is why we are spending more money on ports and fairways. If the political goal of having more goods from road to sea is to be something more than a party speech, then we have to bet on our ports, we have to bet on the coast, we have to bet on the fairways. Digital infrastructure is as important as other infrastructures in today's societies. That's why broadband needs to be expanded for everyone, even where it's not so commercially profitable to do it. Therefore, the State should contribute to this. The State should contribute more, and the Workers' Party believes that the State should contribute 500 million. kr per year. The Labour Party wants the State to take 70 pst. of the investment costs of the major collective projects in our major cities. For the moment, the Fornebubanen, the Citybanen in Bergen, the Bussveien on Nord-Jären and the metrobus project in Trondheim are within the State aid scheme. The Labour Party follows this up in its budget by adding more money, so that the State can contribute 70 pst. We propose significantly more to rail – both for operation and maintenance, for investment, for planning new projects and for the aid scheme to bring more goods from road to rail. Railways are future. We have also put in more money for out-of-office inspection of the vehicle and more money for racial protection and for county roads. The climate challenge is today's challenge. Our generation has to do something with it. We have to act. We need to solve the climate challenges, and we need to build the country further. That is why the Labour Party has a very offensive and forward-looking transport budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2774	Municipalities and county councils provide the basic welfare services to all residents throughout the country. They have been given increasing responsibility for tasks and increased costs to provide services to citizens, but it is not shown in the government’s budget for 2020. The government budget does not cover all the tasks entrusted to the municipalities. It's the hardest framework we've had for Municipality-Norway in 15 years, and there's reports of cuts, cuts, school closures, and that funds need to be used to get over the drug until it's hopefully a different funding from 2021. Among other things, we can mention increased costs related to the responsibility for resource-intensive services. This has been applied to the municipalities approx. 1 billion. kr in increased costs over the last four years. In some municipalities, this municipal expenditure has increased so heavily that municipalities consider introducing property taxes to finance it. Think of the personal burden on the individual user that is then ‘indebted’ when the property tax bill comes into the household's entry. It's an unsustainable situation. The State must ensure predictable financing of resource-intensive services, not shift the cost to the municipalities. There are a number of other increased costs that local authorities will not be compensated for. I can mention the staffing standard for kindergarten, large increases in care and care, the change in the redundancy scheme, which has led to more people need social assistance, etc. At the same time as several tasks are assigned to municipalities, they are less likely to route and reduce income opportunities. The level of property taxes is historically high and record municipalities have introduced property taxes in the period of the government of Solberg. The government's policy has a large part of the blame for this. The municipalities have not been given enough transfer to handle the expenses they have, and the government is overturning it on the population. The best way to eliminate property taxes is to increase transfers to municipalities so that they can make the necessary investments and offer good services to the inhabitants – without property taxes. The Centre Party has prioritised a significant strengthening of the local and county economy in its alternative budget for 2020. With $2.50 a.m. NOK to the municipalities and SEK 1.9 billion. kr to the county councils we strengthen the services of the inhabitants. An active district policy aimed at enabling people to live and work throughout the country is essential to ensure growth and value creation throughout the country. Much of the value creation in Norway takes place in the District of Norway. If it is to live in people throughout the country, the big community must provide security, services and jobs throughout the country. Services such as police, ambulances and food supply are as important and necessary for people living in the city as they are. Education and basic infrastructure such as road, ferry, broadband and public transport are a prerequisite for our success in developing our entire country. Of course, the organisation of state jobs is also a factor in the success of the whole country. The last proposal in the range of centralisation measures is that municipal tax offices should be reduced and transferred to the tax rate. Experience from Denmark suggests that erasing it will not be smart. If the recovery rate goes down, it means lost income for the community, and that means lost skills jobs in the districts. The government's clock belief that magnificence is always the solution, harmonizes poorly with the way people live here in the country. The size should have enabled the municipalities to provide good services instead of three new rounds of community merger down the heads of local people. Redistribution from small to large municipalities via the income system contributes to increased disparities between municipalities. The central party believes that the state's transfer to the municipalities should ensure that municipalities can provide equivalent services, no matter where you live in the country. The most incomprehensible thing in this budget is the violent cut of the county councils. The counties are not given the funds to solve the new tasks, and the clarification of the funding of the county road administration was too late. Furthermore, the counties shall not bear the costs of all necessary equipment nor the costs of conversion. This will affect the services for which the counties have been responsible. It is quite incomprehensible that they are now going to have a reduced economic space while the government's stated objective is, of course, to want to strengthen the county council's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2795	The Labour Party will develop small and large communities in the workplaces, schools, families and civil society. We will use the knowledge, experience and competence of many employees from industry, sea and sea-based industries to develop the new green Norway. The Labour Party will develop the public sector and civil society through participation. Tripartite cooperation is the bottom plank in this. That's why we're increasing the union deduction. Several trade unions are good for individuals, employers and the country. Cooperation and participation build trust between employees and managers, between users and employees, and between politicians and people. And it's effective. Of course, we should develop and transform schools, child protection, business and Norway together, not in expert committees, and without commercialisation and large-scale privatisation. That is why we are spending more on the community than this government in another budget. That's why the municipalities get $2.5 billion. kr more. That's why we're labeling 200 million. for the protection of children, introduce a system of regulated VAT compensation, voluntary and cultural rates and strengthen the fight against violence and abuse and for equality. Our policies ensure a better and fairer distribution of Community funds at a time when the rich are getting richer, where the differences are increasing, and where equality is going in reverse, at a time when the eagerness not to cut the Community's transfers to the richest but to take from them by at least at a time when people in Mandal must travel to Kristiansand to control the car and people in Åseral and Iveland are almost deprived of the volunteers At a time when efficiency means equal treatment so unfair that culture and volunteering are cut to 0.5 p.m., which means fewer measures for children, young people and the elderly at a time when chronically ill children with faulty teeth, disabled parents and commuters pay the price The right-wing rule corrects a lack of charity distribution policy. Increased cash benefits and short-term money are used to alleviate growing poverty: cash support, holiday allowances, Christmas food, gifts and free clothing for families whose livelihoods crumble under the policies of this government. On Stortinget the government cuts 15 million. kr in a VAT underfunded voluntary scheme. According to Freewill Norway, in the evening post today, it means that children and parents have to sell 3.6 million extra rolls of paper, i.e. 9 863 rolls, plus a few dryers, a day, or 750,000 more cookie boxes, i.e. 2,054 boxes, plus some single cakes, a day. It doesn't deserve parents, kids or teams or associations. This testifies to the fact that government parties are far away from everyday life to people most and do not understand the challenges of teams and associations. This is the wrong policy. The rapporteurs must cut. For example, Lindesnes has to. Cut 200 million. kr. It means less well-being, maintenance and investment for people living in Lindesnes. With our budget proposal, Lindesne's employee was able to employ about 15 more teachers. Iveland and Åseral could have hired two new employees, for example: the protection of children. Government policies seem to be based on a fundamental mistrust — a distrust of those who receive social security or redundancy benefits, or who work in the public sector or in culture and volunteering. Mystillite also increases when the government blames others for defects and defects. The public health measure the government masters best is the daily exercise in lifting the index finger and pointing outwards and downwards. For five to six years it pointed the finger at the red-green government. Now it points to the directors of health companies, local politicians in the municipalities, the principals of universities or, as is currently the case, to the Nav and Social Security scandal. The right-wing government's policy and rhetoric disassembles the welfare state, breaks it down into pieces, and makes it incomprehensible, alien and incomprehensible. This increases the distance between users and politicians, and there is good fertiliser for mistrust. The working party will remove the target control hysteria. We say no. We tell employees, nurses and teachers, we trust you. We trust you to manage your responsibilities in a good way, and that you have the good answers and can do the best. That's why we want to get rid of reports that eliminate you from caring for the needs of patients, students or children based on what they need, and not on what politicians need to count.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2834	Since 2013, the transport budget has increased by over 80 pst. It's a formidable increase, and we'll continue our efforts for the next year as well. The development of a modern and forward-looking infrastructure is a priority task for the Right and for the Government. When we took over in 2013, there was a significant lag on both the road and the track. Therefore, we have not only prioritised the construction of new projects, but also increased the focus on the maintenance and renewal of existing infrastructure. On the highways, the maturity has turned to renewal. Since 2015, the maintenance run has been reduced every year, and we follow this up in the 2020 budget. In total, the maintenance seat run has been reduced by more than 7 billion. kr during this period. At the same time, we see that the situation on the county road network is more complex. This is why we are also making provision for a new grant scheme in which the counties can receive state co-financing to reduce the maintenance set-up and to invest in the major economic pathways. The amount for 2020 is a start-up, and it is natural to step up this scheme in the years to come. We continue to lift the Norwegian railway to a modern and well-functioning transport system. It has been important for us to increase capacity and frequency in line with people's desire to travel by train. It has produced results, and more and more people choose the train. The growth is larger than ever. The analysis of goods produced in connection with the national transport plan for 2018-2029 shows that we can expect a significant increase in the volume of goods over the next 10 years. At the same time, the analysis shows that the modes of transport are largely complementary. This means that we need to have a balanced development of infrastructure across the country – both road, rail, coast and aviation. It will be a disaster for District Norway on the Environment Party The Greens and the SV will be able to take advantage of their dramatic cuts in road construction. The analysis also shows that there is a limited potential for the transfer of goods between modes of transport. Nevertheless, it makes sense to facilitate the choice of sea and rail for the most part of the goods – not primarily because of climate action, but because it will help to increase road safety and improve road accessibility. The national transport plan for 2018-2029 is a very ambitious infrastructure development plan and we are following this plan in the annual budgets. At the same time, we see that the biggest challenge in the implementation of the national transport plan is to control costs, and that on behalf of the community we spend the money effectively. That is why we are implementing important reforms. The establishment of New Roads has shown that it is possible to build roads faster and at a lower cost, and that the social benefits of the projects are increasing. New roads have themselves estimated that the savings are approximately equivalent. 100 km by four-field road. So that means something about how we organize the road construction. We also carry out major reforms in the railway sector. The new organisational model and the implementation of competitive tendering in passenger train transport are important steps. After completing two traffic packages, we facilitate an improvement in the offer to customers, while at the same time achieving significant savings – so far as 800 million. for the first two tenders only. This means that there is more money to continue developing the Norwegian railway system. All these reforms have been opposed — without good options. The interesting thing is that the Workers' Party now clearly sees that the road reform is working, and maintains the transfer to New Roads, while the opposition for the rest of the Kutter. In the case of the railway reform, there is resistance from an overall opposition. The paradox is that the same parties think it is entirely right to keep the benefits of the reform in their alternative budgets. The transport sector is facing major changes. Greenhouse gas emissions are going down. The transport sector must take a large part of this reduction. We cannot solve this by reducing people's mobility and freedom of movement, but by facilitating all modes of transport to be free of emissions. We can do that by developing and implementing new and environmentally friendly technologies. Already now we see that a large part of our ferries are becoming low- and zero-emission ferries as a result of offensive public procurement policies. At the same time, changes in car charges contribute to the choice of more environmentally friendly passenger cars and electric cars. Through Enova, it's set off over 1 billion. kr to zero-emission technologies for heavy transport and there are concrete plans for air electrification. What just a few years ago was unrealistic is now becoming a part of everyday life. In several areas, this will help create new and exciting jobs across the country — perhaps especially in the maritime sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2855	There is agreement on the main features of Norwegian foreign and defence policy. It is a Norwegian value, and it also applies to this budget. In a world where we see that the major powers are rivalling more and also in the northern regions, it is our job to defend international agreements and multilateral organisations. We need to contribute to more reconciling rhetoric internationally, but this also applies in Norway. Therefore, it was a step forward when this government went on in 2013 and the Progress Party said that they had distanced themselves from using the word ‘snikislamisation’. For us social democrats, this concept has strong historical parallels to how the social democrats in the middle war were accused of being part of the Jewish conspiracy. Then government no. 2 and the country's finance minister took the floor after six years in government, it was noted internationally. It's divisive, it's conspiratory, and it clearly shows that the Progress Party has not become more responsible for gaining power. The Left and Christian People's Party has put no damper on the rhetoric of the Advance Party. It's a right that I don't recognize either. I will contribute to less divisive rhetoric than the country's finance minister, stressing that Norway's role internationally is to mitigate conflicts. The areas of most disagreement in this budget, despite the consensus on the main lines, are climate, equality, distribution and defence. This development budget is large. It contains a lot of goals, but I'm surprised that the government doesn't have a development budget that shows a direction. In my opinion, the development budget should be a tool to promote our values. As more and more countries come out of extreme poverty and become middle-income countries, we need a critical review of how we use our development resources. Are we financing a lack of distribution in each developing country? We must demand the allocation of funds in the countries where we provide assistance. The second priority is climate. That is why I am surprised by the cut in renewable energy funds. If poor countries are to meet their energy needs, we must skip the fossil age and move into renewable energy. Unfortunately, in recent years, the right-wing government has cut billions of renewable energy appropriations in the development budget. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, this climate action is reinforced by 200 million. NOK, and I think that is important. Although equality has made important progress in many countries, it now owes a conservative wave worldwide with the aim of restricting women's right to control their own bodies. Unfortunately, this government has ensured that Norway joins among the countries where women’s rights are weakened, with its proposal for a relatively small, but symbolic, restriction of the abortion law. When the Workers' Party sees that the Americans are reducing their efforts, we believe that we need to escalate vigorously. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we increase the appropriations for sexual and reproductive health by 150 million. kr. We also believe that the budget should show a clear increase in NATO 2 percentage points. Here is the government's suggestion on the spot resting on the percentage. That is why we believe that we should give this budget a significant increase that shows that we are increasing in line with the target. In recent years, all NATO countries have increased their defence budgets, but compared with the other NATO countries, Norway has dumped from 8th to 13th place. We are also opposed to the government's proposal to cut the defense in North Norway. Both in the case of helicopter support for the Army and the cut in the 2nd Battalion, the Workers' Party wants to increase the defence budget and increase the defense in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2876	What is now happening in Norway is something new in Norwegian climate policy history. What is it? Well, a few things – one thing is that it has not before had anything to say about whether Norway has achieved climate goals or not, but this government has taken the initiative of the first truly global climate agreement, which means that if we do not reach the 2030 targets, Norway can get sanctions against it. Now it has something to say if you don't reach the climate targets. The second is that following that agreement, for the first time, there is a systematic, comprehensive policy for all sectors, because all sectors need to be cut. It's necessary if we're going to be able to achieve the 2030 targets. It is also another thing that this government understands, and that has not been so good in Norwegian climate policy in the past. It's that any government budget has to be greener than the previous one. That is why the budget for next year is also the greenest budget in Norwegian history. That's good, and we're going to keep doing that every year, because we know that the market isn't going to do it alone. We have to have a combination of regulations where necessary, and help the market with conversion, because it's going to happen as quickly as possible, and we're going to grant record amounts for that bet. And we make it more expensive to pollute, every single year. So I have to take some examples of what's in this budget. We are strengthening the effort on green shipping, we are increasing the allocation of the zero-emission fund for industrial transport, and we are continuing to have offensive work on marine pollution. At international level, Norway has taken a leading role in this work. We are strengthening measures for natural diversity and outdoor life, precisely to have a good state of the ecosystem, to prevent loss of species and habitat types, and to strengthen forest protection efforts. Why is it also important in a climate perspective? Well, that's important because the more biodiversity you have, the better rusted nature is to meet the weather changes we already see coming. Then I would say that it is directly wrong what the previous speaker, Huitfeldt's representative, said that we are not betting on the construction of renewable energy in other countries. So we make it to the degrees that Norway has a leading role internationally in getting rid of fossil energy, especially coal, just to help poor countries skip the fossil phase. We often hear from the opposition that there is a standstill in climate policy, that nothing is happening, or that it is not happening enough. We agree that it's going to happen more every year, but it's a little bit strange to say that there's nothing happening. Let me just take one example from one week in June on how much is actually happening in Norwegian climate policy – and this is also followed up in the budget: on Monday we entered into the binding climate agreement with the EU, on Wednesday the government proposed to open up areas for sea wind, on Thursday the Green Shipping Action Plan came, on Friday a historic climate agreement came with agriculture, as well as a reinforced commitment to CCS, and at the end of that week the zero-emission fund for food transport was launched. These are things that are also followed up in this budget. I don't know 100 pst. certainly, but I am quite sure that never in any country has so much happened in climate policy in one week in a parliament, and it is followed up with the greenest budget in Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2891	We are to adopt this evening the seventh budget that this government is behind. As long as we've been getting the most extreme right-wing government we've ever had in Norway, and more extreme than most countries in Europe. And we were warned: Siv Jensen, Minister of Finance, had announced at her party's national meeting in 2013 that she would attack the Norwegian model. Yes, Norwegian society is changing. Norwegian society is being changed in a direction that we disagree with. That's why our alternative budget is at a different rate than what we've seen over these years, and as we see in this year's budget. We want there to be smaller differences between people. That's why we have a tax scheme that collects a little bit more money into the community, but it doesn't least distributes the tax burden in another way, so that those who have little come out of our arrangement. We have said that those who can afford to buy a car for more than NOK 600 000 can pay VAT on the amount that exceeds NOK 600 000. Instead, we want to make sure that kids still get glasses when they need it, that they can get dental regulation if they need it, or that we can avoid cutting young people off for work clearance. The government owes it to immigration as the reason why we have increased differences in Norway. No, it's not the immigrants who have found the attack on the workers. They're not the ones who have found that commuters have to pay more taxes than under the previous government. It is not those who have found that the trade union deduction should be reduced every year, or refuse to allow ordinary workers to have a pension from the first penny. It's political choice of government. This is the first budget submitted by the majority government, after the Christian People's Party, or rather parts of the Christian People's Party, entered the government. I think the Hareides Christian People's Party would react to the cut of spectacles, to dental regulation, and to those who rely on redundancy money. In some areas, the change is particularly evident. These are proposals for which there has been a majority in the UK, decisions that the government in the case today simply says that one should cancel – decisions from the time when the Christian People's Party was free. This applies, for example: Decision No 525 from 2018 to investigate the exclusion of child welfare in the calculation of social assistance. It was the majority of the Storting, but now it's a government that has forced the Christian People's Party to stop participating in it. There is a decision in the Storting on measures to increase the degree of organisation, Decision No. 437 from 2018. There is a majority in the Storting, but now the Christian People's Party has entered the government, and then only the government will liquidate that decision without following it. And that's decision No. 322 from 2017, which deals with unintended effects of the malpractice reform. Yes, the Christian People's Party of Hareides was in that decision, but now the government decides that that decision should simply be repealed. What we're experiencing is part of the dilemma of having a majority government, which is the intention of democracy to have. What we are experiencing now, more and more, is that things are being adopted in the Storing for which there is really no majority in the Storing, and then the government itself becomes a challenge to Norwegian democracy. Unfortunately, we look at areas by area that the decisions that are being amended are decisions that were intended to reduce differences. Now that they are lifted, we are contributing to the political choice to increase differences in Norway. Our budget is an overall alternative to going in a different direction. Our budget is an alternative to appreciating those who go to work every day and contribute to society. But unfortunately, it is right that Minister of Finance Siv Jensen said when the Christian People's Party came into government: now our proposals are no longer stopped in the Stortinget. That's too bad for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2908	In the state budget for 2020, the government continued its important work of building the country. Transport policy helps to bind the country closer together, and we build roads and railways at a pace that never before. We do it to make everyday life easier for most people and for business. We make it possible to live and create jobs throughout the country. For this reason, transport policy is one of the most important district policy tools we have, because it lays the basis for value creation, for our joint work, and with the potential to sustain the activity of District Norway. Over the next seven years, the government has been in charge, taking significant reforms in the transport sector, as well as increasing the pace of development. Where I hear more representatives from the opposition today talk about how much more money they are going to spend than the government, they would have come to terms with it anyway, because they have not been willing to implement what is the basis for us to succeed in transport policy, simply to implement the necessary reforms, not only do as the Labour Party always does when they are in opposition, simply measure success in how much tax money they can spend. It's through large, heavy reform operations that we save money so we get more investment in our infrastructure, which means that we get the maintenance run down the Norwegian road, which increases every year for almost three decades before the Progress Party got a hand on the steering wheel of the transport policy. We carried out the establishment of New Roads, as a collective opposition said, was going to delay road construction. It's none of those who take the words in their mouths anymore, because one actually sees that we've increased the pace, reduced the cost and raised the benefits of society. It saves Norwegian taxpayers on billions of dollars. We're implementing a major rail reform, which the opposition is still trying to torpedoes on every occasion, but which actually turns out to be pretending both that the train supply in Norway on the one hand gets more and more passengers, and on the other hand that we're saving almost 8 billion. kr on the first two offer packages. It is the reform process in the transport sector that, together with the strengthening we have done with a budget increase of over 80 pst. in this period, in sum bidreg to build our country stronger. This continued to work in 2020, by congratulating better on completing good solutions in our transport system, wherever the companies are, wherever the workplaces are, including on the county road network, when we say that we should contribute to solving some of the challenges we face on important export routes. It's a warning in the NTP and it comes before Stortinget originally added up. We reduce tolls, both by cutting significantly in tolls in the districts — 1.4 billion. kr in 2020 – and by taking action to mitigate the toll burden for people who do not have an alternative to the car in the urban areas, or when we combine it with a growing effort on collective provision. Investing in transportation is about building the country. Therefore, this has been among the main priorities of the government in the years behind us. 2020 announces that we are following the most ambitious national transport plan of the time, but we are doing so at the same time as we restructure, while we are still reorganizing, so that we will also have much more of the impact we have had from New Roads, out of the State Roadway – more infrastructure for the money. We do it as we strengthen the supply of public transport, so that more and more passengers who can choose to travel collectively actually get a good transport offer. And we continue to invest our common resources in what the opposition seems to have forgotten, that the rule of action had a different side than just delimiting the use of money, simply ensuring that we invested in transport, in infrastructure, in knowledge and in growth-promoting tax havens. Therefore, the 2020 budget is a good budget as a contribution to building the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2940	The minister talked about traveling collectively, and we want people to travel collectively where possible. In 2013, the VAT on train and bus tickets had a low rate, i.e. 8 pst. That was also 8 pst. VAT on air tickets, and in particular on the north-bound short-haul network, aircraft are to be considered as part of the collective offer. But then the Progress Party came into government, and the rising fee spiral got speeding up. VAT increased - first to 10 pst, then to 12 pst. Then a sample was set down to meet the government platform's target of reducing VAT rates, and the sample's clear recommendation was to increase VAT rates on passenger transport, with bus tickets, at a full rate of 25 pst. But why would the Minister and the government not agree with the Centre Party's good proposal: to reduce VAT again and to remove the air passenger charge on aeroplanes below 20 tonnes – which can both lower ticket prices on the network and contribute to the phase-in of green electric aircraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2946	It's amazing to right the Center Party, which pretends and gives the impression that they're creating an alternative state budget where the sum of it seems to be provocative for business and people in the districts. When it comes to weighing business down with large tax and tax sharps and cooperating with the rest of the opposition in this house, where almost everything is about how much one can over-crowd each other in increasing taxes, it doesn't go together. It is by combining the necessary tax and tax cuts – as this government has done, in tens of billions of dollars for people and business – and the efforts we have made on collective provision, that we actually get results. And if that's the result of politics as counting, as it is for the government – it's not sure it is for the Center Party, but it's for the government – one can only look at what happened to the collective service. There are 15 million more passengers travelling by train today than the last Central Party had the Minister of Transport. It's because we've spent our money putting in more train departures, making the offer better. That investment has been important and necessary, and it is with our government's passenger numbers in the collective supply going up, where there was much weaker when the Senter party had hands on the steering wheel.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2953	When the main aerodrome of the eastern part of the region was adopted to Gardermoen in its time, it was also decided to build the railway. At the same time, very high targets were set for the proportion of air travellers who would travel collectively to and from the airport, very ambitious targets that have been achieved – something we should be very proud of. The NSB Gardermoban, as it was first hot, and later the Flytrain, has been a great success. The Fly train can now be closed down as a result of this government's performance project, the so-called railway reform, in which all rail traffic is to be tendered. Then it simply doesn't fit with an offer like the Flytrain – no matter how successful it is. My question is: can the Minister for Transport promise that the Flytrain will not be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2960	Yes, I can. I never took the order and never planned it. What I've said is that we have to look at how we can make more sense of the total capacity of our network than we do today, so that we get a whole set of better train passengers. I assume that the representative Sverre Myrli refers to an order that has been ordered and has not been delivered. In other words, it is not a position taken by the government either. We don't know what's in the distribution either, because we haven't got it. Our starting point for this has been to make sure that we make use of the total capacity we have, even better, so that we really can keep up with the growth of public transport, including Gardermoen. It has been an important foundation for Oslo airport being one of the European airports with the highest level of collective use when people travel to and from the airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2967	It's probably, as it's called, no smoke without fire. We have read in the newspapers that at least in the Directorate of Railways, which sortes under the Minister of Transport, plans are being made to change the offer of trains to and from the airports – and of course we will have to wait and see what comes. But can the Minister of Transport promise us that what the Directorate of Railways is obviously working on will not be relevant – there should only be one operator operating the route between Oslo and Gardermoen – which was the basis for thinking that the Airtrain might have disappeared and no longer had any possibility of existence? Can the Minister for Transport now reject the fact that what has been signaled by the Directorate for Railways is becoming relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2972	I do not understand what the representative refers to. I have not seen any signal from the Directorate of Railways. I have just enough read the daily business, so many others, but I have not seen any signal from the railway directorate there. So first of all, I can't answer the question directly, because I don't recognize myself in the premise for it. Secondly, it is amazing to right that the Labour Party is now afraid that when all the other debates we have had in this house over the last few years, it is about how, in the name of heaven, the Labour Party – excuse me, President – will be able to prevent competition on the Norwegian railway. This shows that the opposition's policy has only one common denominator – that it constantly shifts. So if you can be opposed to what the government suggests, it's a good thing, but one's not busy with the results. For us, it is the result of the policy that counts: that more people now travel well together, and that taxpayers save money through more competition on Norwegian railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2979	The council boasts about spending a lot of money on the railroad, and it would be a little lacking if you weren't going to spend money on anything reasonable when you have so much money at your disposal. I have been sitting here on Stortinget for so long that I remember when the Progress Party was in opposition and SV put in government and tried to reverse the investments in the railway. At that time representatives from the Progress Party even promoted proposals to shut down Bergensbanen. I think he should be happy that the Progress Party did not get a hit at that time. Now there is something else that is happening in the transport sector that is very important and that can also contribute to major industrial development. This applies to boat and ferry traffic. The government has ordered the government to draw up a law on public acquisitions, which the government has not done, in order to obtain zero emissions there. We now have to finance the county councils so that there will be no new bids in public transport involving fossil emissions. Why won't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2986	Under this government, we are implementing the largest shift towards climate-neutral technology that has ever been done in the Norwegian transport sector. The electric car distributors, as this government has said, are going to be stuck to 2021, with a large shift in the Norwegian car park – also in the form that we have changed the car charges so that we have got a large number of hybrid trucks, which means that a lot more than the ones that would normally have chosen electric cars have chosen it. We have made large shifts that both build new industry and get emissions from electrification of the ferries. In this area, the government is systematically working over time to get results. We have. Also the county councils are now investing in zero-release holiday materials. It is true that the cost is high when a company changes technology – costs that counties are expected to recover from cheaper operations over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e2993	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3000	I can calm the representative Mudasar Kapur. The Workers’ Party does not intend to convert the pension fund into a kind of State budget II, a source of funding for things that do not fit in with the ordinary political priorities of the State budget. The rule of action is firm. But that does not mean that the pension fund is out of policy. Making the community fund a savings account is a political choice, but it's not the whole story. The goal is high returns, but not at any price. We have adopted ethical guidelines politically. We have established the Ethics Council, which recommends selling out of companies with an unacceptable risk of ‘serious environmental damage’, or ‘to an unacceptable extent leading to greenhouse gas emissions’. In addition, there are clear expectations that the companies in which it is invested take into account, inter alia: climate, water quality and children’s rights, to mention something. So we use the fund to promote responsible business and responsible investments. It's also politics. Then we have decided, politically, that the fund should not invest in any clearly defined sectors – specific weapons producers, coal and tobacco, or companies that violate basic humanitarian principles. That kind of thing we don't want to be part of, we don't want to be part of, we don't want to be part of, we don't want to be part During the course of the year, we opened up the possibility of investing in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure within the specific environmental mandates of the Fund and of developing this over time. We're going to stick to this division of labour. But we cannot pretend that the fund can live undisturbed by climate change. The world doesn't stand still. Climate change, risk and conversion affect the world economy and the companies we invest in. It must also affect the priorities of us who own the fund. As fund managers, who are to be invested from an eternity perspective, we have a political responsibility to ask: How can the fund impose stricter requirements on climate risk assessments in companies in which they have invested? How can the fund make clearer demands that companies assume social responsibility? And can the fund – still with the aim of securing returns – contribute to more capital being invested in renewable energy and technological solutions? These are questions all serious financial environments, banks and funds are looking for answers to how climate crisis and climate objectives will affect investment, risk and opportunities. Moreover, since Kapur called for a comment from the financial fraction of the Workers' Party: it was given already the day after these statements fell in Bloomberg, the statements that caused such great concern, and then maybe Kapur should also have got that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3015	It has been many years since the criticism of the government budget has been about fewer millions than this time, and I read that as a sign that there have been many good and correct priorities. At the same time, this time we see an opposition that does not agree much more than increase taxes. Norway is one of the world’s least diverse countries. In fact, the inequality has increased moderately over the last decades, for example: as a result of increased immigration, but at the same time fewer and fewer people in Norway report material deficiencies. The SSB figures also show that changes in taxes on wealth have not affected the inequality. What has increased the inequality weakly are tax changes there has been a broad consensus here on the Storting. The biggest difference in Norway is between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. Then we have to make sure that more people come into the labour market by focusing on knowledge and skills. Increased taxes do not solve these challenges. SV's budget is just a recipe for fewer jobs. This is a party that loves to spend money, while at the same time you have little understanding that the values have to be created before they are shared. SV increases taxes on Norwegian jobs by 22 billion. kr in its alternative budget. At the same time, the representative said that children and young people in poor families would have a safer everyday life and a better growth with their budget. It is not just to take a little bit of Møller's tran, but to swallow the whole bottle. Work is the best way to get out of poverty – and then we have to create jobs, not put chains in the wheels of businesses all over the country. Children growing up in low-income families must have the same opportunity and freedom to create their own future as all others. They will have good care, live safely, establish stable friendships, have hope and feel valuable in society. Therefore, the government has provided for a historical increase in child welfare. It gives all young children's parents a more liberal economy. And we're expanding our leisure card experiment to more municipalities. This will help fewer people to know the feeling of not getting involved. Finally, I have to pay a little visit to Mr Henriksen: to produce a 75 million increase in the budget. kr in the VAT compensation scheme, such as the need for voluntary sales of multiple reels of paper paper and the removal of voluntary centres across the country with the government budget, is both a mistake and a sad way of producing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3032	If it were that boasting, and not least self-evident, was a means of payment, the representatives of the government party would only have covered the expenditure of the government budget in this debate. Instead of taking the challenges people have seriously, find a creative way to present their everyday lives to people around the country. Let me do one example. In these days, in many municipalities, people are fighting to preserve their local school, their leisure, their speedboat, or their bodyguard. too many municipalities have poor advice and effort to get the budget to hang together. This implies that the service provider needs to be cut. None of the representatives of the government parties have been concerned about this, but they have found that there are few municipalities on the government's blacklist of poor councillors. In other words, the logic is that if the municipality is not under economic administration, it's all wealth. Fortunately, people around this country are not stupid. They reveal what's happening, and they know what's boasting, and what's reality. They see that there is pressure on the provision of services and that the local economy is too weak. Another thing that triggers a lot of self-crushing is the practice of cutting out schemes to say that one doesn't cut them out anyway. The fishing gear is such an example. First, the government proposes to remove it from the State budget, but the fishermen will be allowed to finance it themselves through the fish stocks. Then some of this comes back to the state budget, and then it's time for self-scratch – and more self-scratch. But there's no reason to brag, because it's an unprincipled business policy. There will also be new rounds on this matter next year, because everything in the financial setting they write that the conversion of the lead will take place over time. So one should only spend a few more years cutting out an important regional policy measure. I don't think that's much to brag about. In connection with the alternative budget, the Central Party is listening to people, and we've created our alternative budget based on it, and based on the promise of having services close to people and taking the whole country into use. And our alternative budget is that: a budget for Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3048	Having a job to go to is the most important value for the individual and for society as a whole. Work provides security for the individual and the family, and it generates income for the state and municipality. Work also creates values that can be redistributed and give us a sustainable welfare state. The main obstacles to business growth and value creation are high taxes, comprehensive regulation, unpredictable framework conditions and lack of proper competence. What businesses need is an effective tax system and less regulation — not high taxes. Collaborative comrades of the Labour Party in the Socialist Left Party are one of the worst in creating barriers to growth. They increase the tax regime by a total of 22 billion. kr. Of course you have money for many measures. Of course you can spend money. But there is little understanding that values actually have to be created before they can be shared. It's necessary to create values, because we have to redistribute income. We're going to have a society where everyone is going to have an opportunity for education, find a job and participate in leisure activities. So we give children's families a more liberal economy. We increase child benefit by NOK 3 600 per year for children up to six years. It's historic. We know that many children don't get to take part in leisure activities because their families don't have the money for it. We therefore introduce a children's leisure card from six to eighteen years of age, because with a leisure card, children and young people can have their equipment or membership quota covered in an organisation, so that they can be together with others and not least create a network and a good leisure time. We have introduced free core time in kindergarten for children over two years of age for low-income families. We will also grade the parental benefit under the school leisure scheme after income at first and second stages and provide free school leave arrangements for students with special needs of the fifth to seventh stages. We have also provided free full-time work in kindergarten for three-year-olds in reception. What is most effective in the long term in the fight against poverty and inequality is work and job creation. This is why it is very important to facilitate a good business life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3063	There is no government ever that has had as much money at its disposal as the one that is now. So anyway, there are kids who are going to have to grow up in poverty throughout childhood. I hear many people go up here and talk about work. Do you really not believe that the families who have sick or disabled dependants, or those who are really in difficult situations, know that? You really don't think they want a job? But it's not a working life out there that has open hands and accepts someone who has neither the health nor the competence to do in the demanding working life that is today. So we have a bunch of research, the last one yesterday was a new national audit report, which shows that what we're doing doesn't close the gap between what people can do and what they need. There are major health deficiencies, there are people who are struggling. And so poverty doesn't help. The government has been completely systematic and focused clearly on cutting off the most disadvantaged families. Those who are struggling to get to work will find it more difficult. Equally focused have been the increases to those who are healthy and rich, and who should receive one message: Get up in the morning and contribute more! As a result, SV has increased child-rescue by 1.4 billion. kr, also for those who have children over six years of age, because – obs, obs – the kids are actually quite precious. We have protected them from social aid cuts by proposing legislative changes. We want all newly-baked parents who today only get 83,000 kroner, to get 199 000 kroner a year in parental pennies. We want to give back the 89 million. kr that the government has taken from families where one of the parents is disabled, and where the disability benefit is very low, and we want to strengthen the housing support. This is going to make more people do it. These children are going to have a better childhood. Several of them are going to be fine when their parents don't lie awake every single night and wonder if they can pay the electricity bill and the rent, if they have anything in the fridge or anything to put on the kids if they're going to go on a birthday. Those parents are also going to have the strength to possibly grasp very difficult changes in their lives, so that they can be able to get into work in the long run, because everyone wants it – anyone who can. But poverty and judging people to eternal poverty, as this government seems to want to do, nobody helps, nor does it create a single job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3072	Hadia Tajik said at the beginning of this debate that we have to make the most important things in people's lives the most important things in politics. That's why our policies reflect everyday life to ordinary people. That's why our proposals are designed to secure and secure the lives of ordinary people. That's why we've created a budget for ordinary people where we're dedicated to creating a climate policy that creates more jobs. Our proposal takes account of a transition that is fair, precisely because ordinary people shouldn't be left with the bill. Something else that is important for ordinary people is safe and good neighborhoods. We in the Labour Party have therefore strengthened the police in our budget, we have strengthened the courts, and we have strengthened the criminal justice system, because the whole justice chain must be linked if we are to achieve the objective of ensuring and strengthening the legal security of ordinary people. It can't be the way it is today. Today, police and prosecution are suffering from the failure of the judicial government to implement the police reform. Things with a known perpetrator are being hospitalized. The police don't have enough resources to deal with the crime associated with the gangs in the city. In the court the cases are pending, and ordinary people are in line, while the criminals get a penalty discount. In prisons, trustees, employees and prisoners report that the rehabilitation programmes on drugs and mastering are no longer being implemented, due to large cuts in the prisons of the right-wing government. We heard here earlier in the debate of the representative Bjørnstad of the Progress Party boasted of the government's priority in the justice sector, and it is good that the Right is moving towards the level of ambition of the Labour Party. But when the representative boasts that they have got more youth places in prisons — yes, this falls on stone floor. The right-wing government with the Advance Party in the Council of State now chooses to place children on cells in high-security prisons for men. This is nothing to boast of at all. Instead of putting children and young people into ordinary prisons, the right-wing government should ensure the police the resources it requires, in order to secure the countryside and the city. Instead of putting children and young people into high-security prisons for adult men, the Minister of Justice should strengthen the youth services in criminal matters and ensure adequate prevention. The Labour Party does not accept the right-wing government’s handling and resolution of the recrime, because the solution can never be to fill the country’s prisons with youth. The Labour Party wants a strong police force, a solid court and a criminal code to ensure that people are less criminal when they get out than they were when they were put in. Safe communities are important for people in urban and rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3083	It is inevitable to note the great activity of transport and infrastructure in the last few years. All over the country, it's going to be built. It is also a pleasure to record that never before have so many benefits from train provision and collective provision. Since 2013, the Transport Budget has increased by 80 p.m. and in the annual budget for 2020, the Ministry of Transport has 74,4 billion. DKK to its budget chapter, of which 38 billion. kr for roadside destinations and 26.6 brd. kr to railway. In my home country, Telemark, we look forward to two major road openings in December. It's the Mäelefjell tunnel on E134 between Seljord and Hjartdal, a 12 km road project where 9.1 km is a long tunnel that will short the distance by 11 km. In addition to time-saving, greenhouse gas emission reduction will also have a significant impact. On the E18 is the route Ruggtvedt – Dørdal. It opens with a new four-field motorway, a distance of 16.5 km, and is one of New Veier's extension areas on the Langangen-Grimstad portfolio. It will mean faster and safer transport of both people and goods and contribute to value creation. Right, this is good district policy. Bringing regions closer together will increase your ability to live and work outside the big cities and agglomerations. The government's investment in broadband expansion is a success. The status now is at 86 pst. the provision of high-speed broadband by households, and it is a pleasure that the bet continues. 256 million. kr is set aside in the 2020 budget. That's fifty-six million. kr more than in 2019 and a continuation of the level raised in the revised National Budget 2019. The government has prioritised the maintenance of highways, and the slowdown has been reduced. In the case of county roads, the maintenance run is large. So it's very positive that it's set at 100 million. kr to a plan for the road system for county roads in 2020. It is a warning that the government will return to the criteria for applying for this new scheme. The State budget for 2020 once again shows that this government prioritises transport and infrastructure construction very high.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3102	At the beginning of the debate, the Workers’ Party’s Hadia Tajik said that the most important thing in life for ordinary people is the policy – a fundamental principle for the Workers’ Party, but which is worse to see in the budgets of today’s government. The right-hand side of the budget is seven budgets with systematic cuts in the benefits of those who have at least – sick, disabled, single dependants, disabled, refugees – while fainting 125 billion. kr is distributed with round hand to those who have the most from before. The government's policy is working, said the Right parliamentary leader in his speech. Yes, it works: the differences between people are increasing. The richest are pulling away, well helped by today's government. Those with the lowest income fall aft. Older retirement is the main income in life of nearly one million people. The Labour Party believes that a fair pension is one of the most important aspects of the policy. The right-wing government disagrees. Some people have good pensions, with red occupational pensions in addition, and they have also benefited from the government's tax cuts to the richest. Others have little. They have not got tax cuts at all. What they've got, on the other hand, is a notable real decline in the value of pensions through four consecutive social security payments. Those who became pensioners in 2014 have not experienced a single settlement with plus – perhaps except this year, with 0.1 pst., but we do not yet know that. The working party will do something about this. The government won't. We want the social security bills back to Stortinget, but the government says no. We want to change the regulation of current pensions, so that pensioners don't have to go into negatives when others go into positives. The government said no. Pure percentage increases the income gap between pensioners as the years go by. The Labour Party wants us to look at the possibilities for redistribution within the framework of the pension agreement. The government said no. Poverty — or persistent low income, as it is also called — is more common among lone minimum pensioners than among the rest of the population. The Workers' Party will do something about this by increasing the minimum pension by NOK 4000. The government says no, and instead continues to reward them with advice for self-employment savings with a tax cut of NOK 9000, i.e. more than double. The working party will have a fair occupational pension with earnings from the first crown. The government said no. Pension is a clear example of the ideological distinction between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy. The working party will continue to prioritise the most important thing in life for ordinary people, and fair retirement is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3115	Norway is the country of opportunity. We can create hope for the future and create new jobs and strengthen our welfare state. Instead, it is now cut in the welfare of people. Basic services are at risk under the ever-increasing dispersion of resources in our society. The country is to be built, not dismantled – everything from district rights to tax offices. The working party fights for a fairer Norway, so we clearly say no to the right government, which takes money away from support for kids who need glasses and dental regulation. On the contrary, we want a better field-by-field distribution. Those who can afford a Tesla, too, have the opportunity to contribute a little bit. Our sensible grassroots proposal to make sure that we take down the sponsorship of the most luxurious electric cars, called Left and Stepe Skei Grande for envy. Let me say it quite clearly: the political work of the Labour Party has always been about lifting the broad body of the population, creating a more fair society, and if Skei Grande or Siv Jensen believes it comes from envy, they overlook what is the very essence of what has made our country so good to live in, namely, a social democracy that promises workers and our families, that provides a safety net that helps us all, small economic differences that make us rely on people. That's exactly the opposite of envy, because it's about lifting each other and lifting in flocks. That's what makes us all better able to live. Norway now really needs a new, more fair and forward-looking government, just better governance of our country. The differences have to go down, and the senses have to go forward. Safety will again be a good thing for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3126	Those who need policy the most are very often those who have the least. One of the fields we've neglected in this way is dental health. Nearly half of them with income less than NOK 300000 have dropped off to the dentist because of economics. One in seven people say they have taken up loans to afford the necessary dental treatment. This is not how we want the policy to exist for those who have the least. That's why the Working Party is doing something about it. In our alternative budget, we add free dental treatment to 21 years of age, and half the price until 25 years of age, because we know that young people often have less advice, and because we know that prevention pays off. Last week we were able to read about the cancer line in Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen. The cell poison treatment had broken her teeth. She received support to pull 14 teeth, but not to replace them. Is that how the policy should work? The working party believes no. That is why we have spent 50 million on our budget. NOK to help those who have damaged their dental health due to illness, such as Line. We've also brought those who have bad advice, and found their own funds for that group. Nor with the budget of the Labour Party would we be in the target with a bet on dental health, but we would take a big step in the right direction. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party choose to do the opposite. Although it is stated in the Granavolden Declaration that they will gradually extend the protection systems within dental health, 130 million will now be saved. to cut back on support for dental regulation for children and young people with a clearly defined professional need. Health Minister Höie tried in a press release where the headline was that a person removes the support for cosmetic dental regulation. This was a gift package from the government to prevent increased body pressure. Unfortunately for Höie, only a few weeks went by before his own established professional work committee came up with a report in which they disagreed with the Minister's grip. Now the answer from Höie was that the cost was the problem. The Labour Party has found money to continue supporting dental regulation in its budget, because we do not want the kids of those who have the least to be punished the most. Should a change be made in this field, it should be because one would increase support for the two groups that have the greatest needs for dental regulation. The government doesn't, it just does it to save money. On page 282 of the Ministry of Health and Welfare's draft budget: ‘From 2017 to 2018, the cost of social security for dental benefits was reduced by 160 million. crowns.’» Can the President guess where this money was saved? That money was saved by cutting the amount of money for dental treatment to people with a severely impaired ability to self-care for their dental health as a result of a permanent somatic or mental illness. Cutting off those who need the most policy is not the Labour Party's policy. Life is full of challenges, but drying to smile to the world should not be one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3146	The government's 2020 budget does not use the opportunities and does not see the challenges at all. The right-wing representative Asheim said in his speech that the ABE reform, which is not a reform, was important. So it's a flagship for the Right and the Government that public business leaders themselves have to find the cuts in their budgets instead of Asheim and the government taking responsibility for telling us where to cut them. It's a complete waiver of responsibility from the government. We see that the service offered to people is what is being cut and removed, while the government and the representative Asheim are falling down and hiding behind public employees leaders and are not afraid to stand up for their own cut policy. Then the government continues to boast that they don't increase taxes when they introduce something new. No, they don't increase the taxes for them most from now on. Those with the most income and the most wealth are well protected by this government. Instead, they increase the fees for people the most. They are the least affected by this policy. In order not to increase taxes on the wealthiest, schemes such as glasses support for children and dental regulation are being launched. Such a priority isn't much to be proud of, but it's the Right Party and the other government parties. The working party shows that it is possible to do something else with our common money. We give priority to jointly solving these problems, giving priority to the local economy, and that is a strong need. I will not go further than to my own municipality of residence, which is left with a clean budget for 2020 in the light of the money they don't get from the government because the government prioritises something completely different. The Labour Party is taking great action as an industrial billion and billions of competences in its draft budget, in order to increase innovation and opportunities for new jobs. The Workers' Party also assumes responsibility for existing industries. For example, an industry spread throughout the country, accounting for 16,500 mills, provides a significant increase of 100 million. NOK by cutting taxes to the state and allowing the industry to keep the money, so that they can continue to create jobs and activity throughout the country. It's the horse industry that's been asking for this for a long time. They have said that all yellow lamps have flashed. Now they're flashing red. That's what the Workers' Party has seen and understood, and we're doing something about it. So, finally, I hear that representatives of the government parties are constantly complaining that we are increasing the taxes for them most from before, and that we are making the most expensive electric cars, the luxury cars, a little bit more expensive. It's a criticism we're living well with. We call it what it is: a more fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3159	The government continues to surf the centralisation wave with the proposal for the government budget they have made. The policies of the Right and the Advance Party lead to police being removed from people and prisons being laid down. Everything indicates that the courts are now also on their way. The centre party believes, unlike this, in services near people, throughout Norway. I think it is quite incredible that in 2019, as you can work with someone who sits in a completely different part of the country, and you can actually have a conference with someone who is in another part of the world, you should not be able to use digitisation to develop jobs across Norway, to develop District Norway. Instead, digitisation and modern development are used as an argument for cutting down districts. I think that's completely wrong. It's like the Prime Minister's driving around Norway in a bullbox, well protected in the cab, far from everyday life to people. The bulldozer is decorated with a good deal of mottos, such as ‘stronger occupational environment units’ and ‘competence allocation’, and when daylight comes, because she runs around in the dark and in the blind, things are put down in the cabin and the weather, and things are not seen in context. This is a good example of the justice sector. Here the government has implemented a comprehensive police reform. They have accepted changes in the criminal justice system, and they consider that courts should be closed. But they do not see the reforms in the various parts of the justice sector in context. For example, a number of prisons are now closed because there is overcapacity in prisons. But this is not due to any sudden decline in the number of criminals in Norway, because the police are reformed. The police are struggling with their capacity after the police reform, they have to settle cases and are unable to establish criminal cases. The police lawyers are struggling, and they are becoming a clog that makes cases not coming to the courts, and that people are not being judged. So the fact that we're now shutting down prisons because there's no need for these prisons is because the government has upset the police, not that people in Norway have become less criminals. The Central Party believes that it is necessary to strengthen all aspects of the justice sector, including police, prosecutors, courts and criminal justice. All of these are related. We believe that major structural changes cannot be the answer to everything, centralization is not the answer to everything. What is the answer is to provide services that work close to people, and to prioritize the resources of the police locally instead of to the Police Directorate, and to the courts instead of to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3172	We cannot have an a layer and a b layer in terms of safety and preparedness in Norway. For decades, the rescue helicopter service has provided safety for fishermen, recreational boats, walkers, soldiers, injured and sick, but there is one area that is not properly covered – there is a black hole in the standby, and it is Troms, between Banak and Bodø. Preparedness has been partly covered by the use of Army helicopters for civilian missions, and air ambulance services and ambulance helicopters have been important. But at a time of uncertainty around the North Air ambulance service when the government is moving army helicopters from the country, it is absolutely necessary to put in place a new base for the rescue helicopter service, to put in place a new preparedness for the population between Banak and Bodø. It was therefore gratifying that the government finally said that there would be a new base in Troms. The fact that they landed in the state budget on the base in Tromsø does not agree with the Workers' Party. The fact that the government has worked against Mid-Throms on several occasions should give them an opportunity to listen and think well about this matter. They didn't choose to do that. Both Tromsø and Bardufoss are good alternatives, and the most important thing is that there is a base in place, but the Workers' Party believes that the best thing is that the rescue helicopter base is added to Bardufoss. There are several reasons for this. Bardufoss fills the gap between Banak and Bodø in a good way. It is central in Troms, between the two cities of Tromsø and Harstad, with its hospitals. Bardufoss already has Bardufoss air station, operated by Air Force. You can take advantage of the synergies with the Defense. It's a good helicopter environment, you have the infrastructure in place, and it's industry and maintenance organisation in place. If the Air Force is to operate the new air rescue helicopter base, it is more efficient to have one Air Force Base in Troms than to use two resources. Often it is heard that it is district policy if you want to put this kind of activity outside the cities, but it is not in this case. Overall, the Labour Party believes that Bardufoss is the best choice for people in Troms and areas around. But it's an additional argument: when the government rages a lot of the helicopter environment in Troms by cutting out the Army helicopters, a rescue helicopter base can be a way to maintain important competence rather than weaken it. You can strengthen preparedness, secure the professional environment and industry, and Bardufoss as an important base for defence. Therefore, the Workers' Party will work for a new, long-lasting rescue helicopter base at Bardufoss.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3183	Public health provision now needs a strong boost. When public health services are given more tasks, but the funds do not increase as and when commercial actors are given more space, we are moving towards a two-part healthcare system that creates inequality. This will counter through its alternative budget, and we're proposing 2.2 billion. kr more for health. In addition, priority will be given to priority areas for primary health services in the municipal budget. SV will strengthen the hospitals by 1 billion. kr, e.g. to ensure safer and better food provision, to provide more employees full-time jobs and to strengthen post protection. The government's cheese ratio has hit the hospitals hard, and the cuts go out on patient treatment. At the same time, the funding model and the organisation of hospitals need to be changed. We need better political governance, less bureaucracy and more emphasis on professional judgement, and we don't want to spend the big money laying down Ullevål. Sustained drug reform needs to be met with sufficient means of implementation to ensure that drug addicts receive the help they need. Subsequent protection for people with drug dependence must be an integral part of the specialist health service, but this is not followed up in the government budget. And then it's time for the psychiatry to get the promised promise. The SV's draft budget is a priority for both of these areas. SV has been fighting for many years for a dental reform that recognises the teeth as part of the body and puts an end to the great social differences we have in this area today. In our budget, we will start by expanding the public dental provision for young people and the elderly, and of course we will reverse the government's proposed cut in support of dental regulation for children who need it. The municipalities have first line responsibility in Health-Norway. This will focus on public health, prevention and early intervention. Here the great promises are to be made in the growing care of the elderly, and here the offers are to be turned against greater freedom of choice for the individual and better adaptation to individual needs. The municipalities will do all of this, but are struggling to get it done. For the state, responsibility for tasks is transferred, but the funds that should accompany do not keep up. I myself have known about the great frustration as a health politician in Eidsvoll, a low-income municipality with growing pain, debt and investment backlog. And there are many municipalities like ours. The gap is increasing, and we are pushed year after year to cut into what we want to cut at least, such as volunteering and public health work, everything that is not strictly required by law. Therefore, I am more than happy that SV will give municipalities a strong boost, both through general strengthening of the municipal framework and through earmarked grants to bet areas that the municipalities otherwise struggle with, such as public health measures, school food, physical activity, low-threshold services in the care of drug and psychiatry and increased health care providers and midwives, among other things. I'm going to admit that I know municipal policy better than landfill policy, and in the SV's alternative budget, I find a strong hand in the health effort of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3201	Right-wing fiscal figure, Henrik Asheim, said in his opening speech today that today we will adopt the seventh budget of the Right-wing Government in a row. He stressed that there were important and important priorities, and that he could stand for hours and frames up good action. To be careful, there would be a lot of repetition and a lot between the good points. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to develop good public welfare services that balance the differences between people and offer welfare that is close to people across the country. Today, many elected members of local government around the country are struggling to adopt a budget that will provide citizens with good and safe welfare services. In my own municipality of origin, Orkland, elected representatives from the four merged municipalities of Agdenes, Snillfjord, Meldal and Orkdal must start by cutting costs by a total of 25 million. kr – money that would have been used to develop good welfare services in this merged municipality. According to KS, the government delivers the worst budget for municipalities in 15 years – municipalities responsible for developing good welfare services near people. That is what Mr Asheim of the Right believes when he says that the State should not help to warm up the economy, and that the main reform that this government has introduced is the ABE reform, i.e. the red tape and efficiency reform. It's not a reform. It's flat cut all over the line with no dimension and no meaning. Kindergarten, school, elderly care and health care are important in people's everyday lives and the most important thing we can spend the community's money on. Therefore, the Labour Party strengthens the free income of municipalities and counties by 3 billion. for 2020 in its alternative budget. And then we add 350 million. kr to resource-intensive services by strengthening the Top Finance Facility. The most important thing we can do to be able to redistribute people and develop good public welfare services is to ensure that people get into work, and that people have that competence and knowledge of the labour market demand. In an article in Dagbladet on 26 November, the representative Roy Steffensen of the Progress Party writes that we need more people who work in the basement over dress, and that unemployment can be reduced to 2.2 pst. in 2020 due to the oil industry, export growth and increased shopping. This is in stark contrast to the fact that the Address Paper writes that 2019 can get the highest bankruptcy rate in Trøndelag in ten years – so far this year has recorded 415 bankruptcys, forced liquidations and forced resolution in Trøndelag. Competition is becoming increasingly tougher and margins less, and the lack of skilled labour has never been greater. Six out of ten NHO enterprises lack staff with the right skills, and there is a particular shortage of skilled workers and skilled school workers being brought forward in the NHO competence survey. The Labour Party proposes 1 000 new post-secondary school places in its alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3216	The representative now on the platform is a proud industrial worker from Rogaland. I'm proud of the great industry we have in Rogaland and the rest of the country. It makes me check where things I get in my hand, is produced, and there's something I do every time I get a cup in my hand to be served coffee, or when I get to a covered table. I turn the cup and the waitress to see where it's produced, and in the public and business context, it's luckily often that it says the logo of Figjo AS. Indeed, one industrial worker from Rogaland is pleased that Figjo is the only producer of porcelain in Norway. This is now at risk, because the government has now entered in its budget that they are to pay the CO 2 tax, a tax that all their competitors in Europe are exempt from. For Figjo AS, this fee will amount to between 850 000 and 900000 kroner in extra costs per year. The company is thus in danger of either having to do as other Norwegian factories do, namely to produce the porcelain in low-cost countries, for example. in Eastern Europe or Asia, with greater emissions, or they have to shut down the business. That is the consequence of the draft budget proposed by the right-wing parties. The Labour Party has a different approach to this. We want to use a well-known and well-functioning technique that the government is incredibly reserved for using, namely the tripartite cooperation. Through agreements concluded with the social partners, we will have a systematic review of industrial emissions and how they can be reduced over a certain period of time. So the four government parties do not do as the EU does in these cases. In the EU, ceramic factories and this type of enterprise are exempt from tax. There's a lot of talk among people about using the EEA Action Room. The government parties use this space of action in quite different contexts than most people talk about. They use it to go as far as possible to privatise public services and do not use the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement to provide a level playing field for industry. This budget does not develop the industry, it is liquidating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3228	Government party representatives use words such as ‘sustainable’, ‘effective’ and ‘robust’ while centralising, privatising and cutting public services. The working party believes this is the wrong medicine. Differences are increasing, and districts are weakening. The country is being drained for resources. The Labour Party believes that we need a policy that provides value creation and better conditions for workers, where our common natural resources provide safe Norwegian jobs. This applies, for example: road construction, rail, transport, our fish, wind power and our agriculture. In the past year, the number of bankruptcies has been similar to what we had in the financial crisis. Entrepreneurship is under pressure, and I am concerned that more and more contracts and tenders go to foreign contractors. We lack skilled workers and room for innovation. We read about social dumping and unworthy wage and working conditions in companies in plants, fisheries, maritime transport, transport and clean-up. Over the last two years, the Labour Inspectorate has been employing dozens of staff. The government calls it a red tape reform. Employees are unable to perform preventive work and have had to cut their supervision. The number of Norwegian drivers drops, while the number of foreign drivers rises. State companies, such as Bring, employ foreign drivers with Slovak pay and working conditions. The defence cleaners have lost their state pay and working conditions in the privatisation of services. The railway reform throws out cleaners, employees, tenders, while customer satisfaction is falling. Trains are becoming increasingly frequent, and the number of directors' salaries has doubled. The Workers' Party's alternative state budget is a budget for workers, for a decent life. We want to help those who need it, and the priorities are to prevent rather than extinguish. We are particularly concerned about the government's lack of funding for regional reform and the counties. This is District Enemy. It concerns the transfer of free resources to county councils, fishing ports, roadside co-administration and, in particular, the FOT routes. We will build the country together and not sell it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3241	We have very great opportunities in this country to both cut greenhouse gas emissions and create jobs. What could we do in this budget? Yes, we could twist all the instruments of district and industrial policy and impose climate requirements on them. Then we had developed parts of Norwegian business with products that they could live off and we could live with, and that the world needs. We could put money on the table for zero-emission public transport, as SV suggests and finances. It had developed business, and it had significantly cut greenhouse gas emissions. We could get grants, loans and rules in place that make the entire construction industry through, for example, material use can contribute to significant climate change and industrial development, which can be used both in Norway and internationally. We could turn money from unnecessary highway expansion to the development of the railway. It will also create business. There are a lot of things we could do in this budget that the government chooses not to do. It is bad business policy, it is bad district policy, and it is bad climate policy. In fact, we don't have time to wait for the insubordination that this government has. With regard to the local economy, today I read an early list in a reply to the representative from the Right. It's gotten longer during the day, and it's getting worse. The municipality after the municipality reports that they have to cut large sums. So the government says: But look at the municipal economy – there are so many people who are not on the ROBEK list now. That's because they've already cut down on the leg. What are they doing? In fact, in all those things that are preventive — for those older people who need some help to manage at home, for those with disabilities who need user-led personal assistants, for those who need help with child protection early. All of these things that we're going to do, you've cut into, and now they have to cut into the leg. That's why SV prioritises the local economy the highest of the parties and proposes more than 5 billion. kr in increase. It's a clear value choice for SV. We believe that care for the elderly should be good and safe. We think the kids should get a good school. We believe disabled people should have the right to an equivalent life. It requires that the local economy is much stronger than today, and we suggest that. And to all those who are up and talking about mental health and prevention: yes, there must be low-threshold provision in the municipalities. It has to be financed. There are employees who can provide these services, and the employees have to have wages if there is to be an offer to the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3262	Policy shall be a tool for achieving objectives. Elections should be able to answer the questions asked and implement solutions that improve people's lives and create sustainable societies. For example, what can we do to give children and young people equal opportunities for a long and healthy life? Sometimes we know the answers and have the tools, but they're not going to be used. In fact, the government has a toolbox to promote the health of the population, for which professionals have also done well. Yet they choose to let the dust down rather than use it. Why is that so? One of the objectives of the Labour Party's policy is to provide equal opportunities for good health regardless of the size of the wallet or the length of education. Public health work and prevention are inevitable if we are to achieve the objective of a fair state of health, with lower social health differences. The truth now is that the distribution of health, disease and life expectancy depends on how much resources you have. Especially unfair is thinking that social health inequalities are inherited, because they do. This will compensate the Workers' Party for in its alternative budget. Where is health created? In most of the arenas where we live and live. That is why all sectors need to be involved in promoting cross-social health. Here are some examples: we know that physical activity in primary school is the right medicine for health differences, but to put it straight out, the government is coming stagnant after. Another example is a healthy school meal. The government is fighting back. I am not concerned if any children are offered both home cooking from their bosses and possibly oatmeal at school. I'm worried about the kids who are hungry at school. If there's one country in the world that should make sure everyone has food in their stomachs when they're at school, it's ours. I'm not worried about the kids who are in two or three different leisure activities. I am concerned about those who never got to try out a team, where cohesion, empathy, disappointment and joy are shared and taught – on the track or in the corps. Of course, school health services, with health care professionals, are important in public health work. Here, the Workers' Party has great ambitions, and one day when we take up the government offices, it will be well demonstrated in universal services for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3283	A statement doesn't become more true just because it's repeated many times. Although for years the opposition has tried to say something else, Norway is doing very well. Only in the last year, 50,000 more people have come to work. Unemployment has not been lower than 10 years. Growth is increasing, and business investment is high. Our districts are also doing very well. Seafood industry, forest industry and the tourism industry are doing well — to mention something. The municipal economy has been strengthened by about 30 billion. kr with the Right in government, and we have record few municipalities on the ROBEK list. The right will develop the whole of Norway. Then we also have to have good conditions to run businesses across our country. That's what we get with the budget that's being adopted today. The budget of the Central Party, on the other hand, shows that they will do the opposite. Let me do a couple of examples. The centre lot will exit from the EEA Agreement. It will be the hook on the door for many district jobs. This means that we will lose access to a market with over 500 million people, and in 2018, for example, most of exports from the maritime food industry to just EU countries. Obsessing market access for that industry will obviously not make Norway less oil dependent, as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, claimed in his speech was his goal. On the contrary, strangling that market access will make us more oil dependent. To develop the whole country, we also need businesses across the country. The policy of the Centre Party will make it more difficult for the Nordics to own Norwegian businesses. Local, family-run companies with small margins will have to drain their businesses for large sums because the Centre Party follows the Labour Party and SV and increases the tax on Norwegian ownership and Norwegian enterprises throughout the country. Not enough: in today's business today, the Centre Party said that they want to collect a new tax from the tourism industry. Then you can ask yourself the question: Who will be hit by it? There are Norwegians on a vacation, there are foreign tourists who are considering going on vacation in another country, but first of all they have to take the consequences of it, those who work in the tourist industry around the districts. To develop the whole of Norway, we need to create more. Unfortunately, the proposal for an alternative budget of the Centre Party this year does not confirm once again that they are a high-tax party that is going to make Norway more oil dependent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3296	All first I get to continue where I escaped during the exchange of lines with Minister Dale. In fact, Finance Minister Siv Jensen has been called a tax queen several times, and over 5 billion. This does not exactly help to make everyday life easier, either for business or for most people. At least industry in the north is not satisfied with increased taxes, especially those that depend on using the short-haul network. Minister Dale also talked a lot and a long time about investing more in transportation. Is the government investing more along the coast? No, no, no. Is the government following up the NTP in the coastal effort? No, no, no. At least the increase it boasts does not apply to ports, fairways and maritime transport. The coast bet is only 3.8 pst. by the planned bet, but not even the small percentage followed up. From 1 January, the county authorities shall assume responsibility for the fishing ports along the coast. In this respect, several counties do not want to sign the takeover agreements because the money does not follow the task. Of the fishing ports inside today’s NTP, 74 are pst. in the north. Large projects, e.g. The second port and the fishing ports of Røst and Værøy are within the NTP after 2020. The state's investment in the fishing ports of the Northland is eliminated by a pen stroke and responsibility is lifted to the county municipalities. The maintenance maintenance allowance includes, but does not include, funds for operation, maintenance, investment and any storm damage. When we have pointed out this lack of follow-up in the past, the government has referred to an advance order. It was good for some ports, but it was only small in terms of the large port expansions. The artillery system was in no way rigged for ports such as Andenes, Røst and Værøy. Only for the three ports are the investments of over 1 billion. kr. It's also investments of over 1 billion. kr for Troms and Finnmark, and they have calculated the maintenance run to 400 million. kr. The funding is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3307	The Workers' Party is taking a power cap for people with dementia in this year's alternative state budget. We're going to go further on the grant scheme to day-time activities places and set at 400 million. kr for this purpose. We believe it is a real loss for the government to include the grant scheme in the municipal framework when we are only halfway to the goal of establishing 9 200 day activities. That the government lowers the ambitions of people with dementia and their relatives is sympathetic and incomprehensible when we face a doubling of the number of people with dementia over the next decades. The working party puts in addition to money to develop more dementia-friendly societies. We also believe that the National Association for Public Health should be strengthened as a user organisation, and we propose this. The national association must be treated in the same way as other user and related organisations for its work of interest and equal opportunities for people with dementia. We need to understand that people with dementia and their relatives have a particular challenge in terms of their ability to participate in the governing bodies of the association. This is the time to clean up. When older people are supposed to be the boss of their own lives, it's also about facilitating life as you know it, even after you've been diagnosed with dementia. Technical aids such as GPS can be essential for continuing activities you appreciate and for relatives to feel safe. The working party is worth 100 million. kr more than the government of health technology in municipalities. For many older people, volunteering is important, both as the arena where they fill the days with valuable activity and as an actor who contributes to the lives of the elderly. Volunteer centres are central to matching voluntary contributions with the needs of the population. The Labour Party is opposed to the inclusion of the grant to volunteer centres in the municipal framework. We want to keep the volunteer centres as a separate post on the state budget and increase the amount of funding, so that volunteering can get even better status, in line with what the Pensioners' Association presents as important for local volunteering. The government, for its part, promises the voluntary participation of parties and large-scale announcements, but does not deliver the goods when the government budget is being treated. Even the scheme to recruit more volunteers through the voluntary.no portal is cut. The vast majority of the elderly are both healthy and voluntary, although some people need more health care especially towards the end of life. For these elderly people, the health worker is the one with whom they have the most contact. Then we are dependent on a well-functioning regular medical service. As many people have been in today, the system is about to crack. The Labour Party is taking a solid step towards resolving the fixed crisis for all its citizens, but it is particularly important for its older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3320	It is not always easy to see it, but this debate goes into a historical line in Norwegian politics. What has been the review tone of this debate throughout the day is that the right parties swear to economic philosophy that if the rich get richer, we will all get better, and if the rich don't get richer, we're all going to get worse. It is the content of the policy and rhetoric they present here. It is a long tradition for the right parties to believe this – they have meant it throughout Norway’s economic and political history. The new thing in the parliamentary context is that they have got the Left and Christian People's Party with them on this liberal economic understanding. It's very regrettable, of course, because it creates a majority for an inequality development in Norwegian society that is very worrying. Representatives Asheim and Bjørnstad have made their contributions – the main representatives of the government parties, relatively young representatives, competent. But they're able to ignore the consequences of inequality in society. The later ones that it is not there, despite the clear documentation that lies in everything that is said, in everything that is written, and that we hear from everyone who is affected by it. But these two relatively young representatives are not talking about it. There are some bureaucratic arguments that this is necessary for it and the bureaucratic reason, but there is no political argument. What's amazing, and that's very serious, I think, is that we're sitting here in the Norwegian big city, treating a big government budget and are all happy that we have so much money, but then here we're going to make decisions that affect the weakest in society. They don't say it does, but it's not true -- they just choose not to believe it themselves. I don't use many examples, because I don't have time for that. But everyone knows the examples, I've been able to get to two. We're going to save 161 million. kr i cut for the ability of the weak to take care of their own teeth. We have previously adopted restrictions on the car system for disabled people, which makes it even more difficult for those who need these cars in their lives. Why in the world are we doing things like that? Well, that's because it's a liberal right-wing policy – and nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3331	The right is apparently very concerned with school and education, but seems to forget that all orders and reforms to the seventh and last must be carried out in the municipalities, in the schools and in the first line, where the teachers stand. The representative Asheim and the minister of knowledge boast new curricula. We are a group of people who are happy that there is more active and practical learning in school – finally. But I wonder how the Right believes it will work when the municipalities only in Uppland state have to cut for over 200 million. kr in total. The centre party welcomes new curricula, but, unlike the government, it will do far more to enable the county councils and municipalities to secure more teachers with more time and confidence to realize ever-increasing ambitions and goals for the school. Criticism about the way special education is done falls when, instead of more jobs, many schools have to cut. The centrum part stands at 4.4 bn. kr extra for services near people, and we want to be involved in giving growth in the municipalities of our alternative state budget. In addition, the Centre considers that the occupations and operations of Norway do not receive enough funding and amount to 400 million. kr more to this than the government. These include: craftsmen, professionals and health professionals standing in the first line where people are going to get a job done or buy a product. They must have a practical school that motivates completion and a real and complete professional offer to go to, with up-to-date teachers and equipment. Vocational schools will be able to receive the more and more students who want to take the training they offer, with quality and more places of study. Basic funding is important both in higher vocational education and in other higher education. The focus of the centre is more on this, along with more on ICT, medicine and much more. We will raise the field of research particularly in agriculture and spread throughout the country. With more funding for regional research funds, we believe that the research activity near people will increase throughout the country. The research institutes are also committed to making promises to put research into practice. In view of this, we believe that the Central Party's alternative state budget will help to bring the whole country into use and provide education and more research near the people of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3345	Now it is a familiar matter that some parties have problems with short-term memory, so it can be good with a reminder. In its eight-year period from 2005 to 2013, the red-green government moved a total of 561 jobs out of the Oslo region. In six years with the current government, it's decided to move out over 800, and we have more to go on. The point of spreading jobs around the country is not just to provide tax revenues to district municipalities and cities around the country. Substantial gains are also linked to the transfer of competences that takes place when establishments are set up with the need for highly skilled labour. It does something to the whole community. It's over when it was the teacher, the priest and the doctor in the village who had gone to university. As the educational community spreads around the country, it is helping to strengthen a culture of vision, innovation and knowledge desire and thereby the need for more knowledge and innovation. With regard to the relocation of jobs, perhaps the Central Party's will has been great, even though the ability has been sluggish. The party has probably noticed what it is to have a centralization party that the Workers' Party brings with it in the sneaker. However, I have always believed that at least it was a goal to move the so-called bureaucracy out of the mud in Inner Oslofjord and to the vast forested areas, the veins of the western fjords or to the archipelago in Westfold, for that matter – until the party provided its alternative budget. Because it is said that the Centre Party will drop the Election Directorate in Tønsberg, between 25 and 30 jobs – away with them. Forgotten was the reason why the directorate was set up, in order to create a distance to the political environment of the Ministry of Local Affairs among those who manage the most important thing in our democracy, namely free elections every two years. But the dementia extends beyond what it saw, because the party has also forgotten that this important democratic instrument was actually the work of the Central Party-Communal Minister – born by Liv Signe Navarsete, pint under Trygve Battle Violence Vedum, but still alive. And that's what it's going to be because the bureaucracy, as it's called, or the bureaucrats, doesn't sit and win inch in Tønsberg and wait for elections every two years, and because everyone knows that they're laying down these jobs, they have to be moved back to Oslo and back to the Ministry of Local Affairs, where exactly the same jobs await them. I guess that's what the Center Party calls reversal. I repeat the representative Gahr Støre's words from earlier today: it's not like there's a bunch of faceless bureaucrats out there that can only be kept away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3352	A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. The crisis agreement between the Bond Party and the Workers' Party in 1935 laid some of the foundations for stronger popular governance of market forces. It was to end with workers and people living in the countryside. It also happened – the government gave results. The population population by decision-making led the labour market, it became safer for most people. A Nordic common labour market did not change it in 1954. The Labour Protection Act, the Labour Environment Act, was an important step forward in 1977. Today, however, we are withdrawing from this Norwegian labour market model every day because Norway practises uncontrolled labour immigration from EU countries, how many Eastern European countries have very poor pay and working conditions and high unemployment rates. It changes Norwegian working life in a negative direction. It affects more and more industries. The centre party is in favour of a controlled labour immigration from EU countries outside the Nordic region. The central party is therefore responsible for the control of the labour market by elected representatives, the Stortinget. The EU has a common labour market that is not governed by popular governance. It's a system error. The Working Environment Act needs to be strengthened to ensure permanent employment. We have to remove the legal basis for agency staff and bet on temporary employment agencies. We need to clarify the Working Environment Act so that seafaring consultants cannot replace employees when they are de facto in the employee's position with the head of staff. We need to clarify the Working Environment Act so that the use of subcontractors, for example: in the fishing industry, is prevented when there is actually a circumvention of requirements for Norwegian generalised pay and working conditions, as Dagbladet revealed, since 25 November this year, in the important series of articles on our fishing industry. The Labour Inspectorate supervises compliance with the provisions of the Working Environment Act. Supervision has decreased from approximately 18 000 in 2015 to nearly 13 000 in 2018. It's an unwanted and negative development. Norwegian employment and business are becoming increasingly competitive, leading to negative pressures on the labour environment law. Oversight by paper checks is not necessarily sufficient. Coordinated out-of-work inspections are needed. Today, there are about 200 inspectorates' annual work in the Labour Inspectorate, a reduction of 120 since 2015. The government's draft budget will not allow for further supervision. The central batch increases the number of year-on-year inspectors by 90, of which 30 are released from the administration, and increases the allocation by 60 million. kr. Furthermore, employees at a-crime centres must have a legal basis to share all information related to crime and social dumping. Labour inspectorate must also have legal support as soon as possible to comply with the strict rules for manning companies laid down in the Working Environment Act. Finally, the size must be sent to the reorganisation of the Labour Inspectorate, leading to a negative trend in the number of inspections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3367	With this State budget, the government has put forward a strong cut in redundancy payments for young people under 25 years of age. With government policy, those who are under 25 and on redundancy pay must live at 130 000 kroner a year. There's a sharp drop in the income of some of those who have very little to walk with before. Of course, it is worth working – but so does it. The Labour Party's line of work is about lifting people into work, making demands and making demands because we think that everyone has something to do with, if they get the opportunity. Recently, we've been described several sad stories about young, sick people who, for everything in the world, would like to trade places with young people of the same age who are in full-time work or education. But economic uncertainty does not lead sick people into work. The government's cut in redundancy money is intertwined in the range of attacks on this scheme. The government has previously reduced the maximum social benefit period, tightened the conditions for extension in addition to clarifying the disease requirement. Now we see the consequences of the cuts. More people have to survive on social assistance, and more people are pushed over on disability benefits. It is serious that there is a new misrepresentation, and it is a development that is particularly worrying when it comes to young people. Young people on the outside of the labour market deserve politicians who give priority to measures to ensure that the labour market has a place for them, and so does the Workers' Party. For some people it's about proper health care, for others it's about competence, and for some people again it's just about closer follow-up from Nav. So rather than cutting the life base of young people, the government should stop sub-funding Norwegian hospitals and ensure that Nav employees have time to follow up, time to do their job. They should reverse the cuts in labour market measures, and they should make the celebrations of mental health a reality. We don't know what tomorrow brings, and disease is neither wanted nor planned. In common, over many years, we have built a safety net that makes it a little safer if our lives are turned upside down. But year after year with this government, the safety net has been shrunk.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3380	If we're going to achieve our climate goals, we're going to have to put the forest to work. It's not the Center Party that says it, it's the United Nations. In its fifth report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assumes that the use of modern bioenergy needs to be at least fivefold in order to achieve the 2-degree target. Norway, as an important forest country, must take its share of responsibility. Unfortunately, the effort on forest as a climate change agent is shining here in the country with its absence – and unfortunately also in the government's proposal for a state budget. It is that the forest is somehow nature's own fishing and storage system, but it also requires that we use it effectively, it has to be mowed, and more forest must be planted. Nevertheless, the government is passive when it comes to putting the forest into service. What we need is a ceiling for forest planting and care. For every year the forest effort is delayed, we are missing out on major climate gains in the future. The forest does not only produce climate effects when it is rooted. If the harvest is done at the right time, when the forest is fully mature, we can use the biomass of climate-friendly products on a wide scale. Everything that can be made of the black carbon can in the future be made of wood. It provides fantastic opportunities and underlines that forests and access to bio-resources are a climate advantage Norway needs to exploit in a completely necessary transformation of business. Forests can replace emission-intensive alternatives in a number of applications, such as increased use of wood in barley, increased use of advanced biofuels and increased use of biomass to replace fossil goods. It will be a wise and sensible part of the bioeconomy, which will require deliberate investment in the years ahead. The centre will ensure that the forest is planted in new areas. New forest planting of one million dekar will over time generate a large carbon capture, 1.8 million tonnes of CO 2 up to 2050, and a total more than 75 million tonnes up to the turn of the century. The report Planting of forest on new areas such as climate action, prepared by NIBIO, the Environment Directorate and the State Agriculture Administration, shows that forest can be planted on a million decaves without significant negative environmental impacts. The center party thinks it's time to put in place an escalating plan to ensure that over a decade, the forest of the plant has a million deke, and so we're putting off about 110 million. kr for planting and care in our budget. The government is doing nothing in the field. It's almost scandalous. The centre party will put nature to work to win the climate battle, and therefore we will also spend money on forests and an action plan as part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3392	The government facilitates living local democracy by continuing to strengthen the local economy and to move power and authority closer to the inhabitants. At the same time, Norway is facing a continuous need for change in order to secure our common well-being. We have to create more green jobs and qualify people for the new jobs. The Norwegian economy is in a good period of low unemployment while creating new jobs in both urban and rural areas. But then it's also important that we hold back public money. In 2018, the municipal sector as a whole received a net operating surplus of 2.8 pst. of the revenue. This is higher than the technical calculation selection recommendation that the net operating performance should be about 2 pst. over time for the sector to have sound financial management. The good operating results in recent years have led to a sharp decline in the number of municipalities in ROBEK, and in September 2019 10 municipalities were registered in ROBEK. That's the lowest number ever. Since the government of Solberg joined in 2013, the free income of the municipal sector has increased by about 30 billion. kr., and in our revised national budget, the economic space for the municipal sector was strengthened by an additional 0.5 billion. kr i increased tax revenue. High tax access also provides good municipal economy in 2019, and now it is estimated that the tax revenue for the municipal sector will be 4.9 billion. higher than that envisaged in the revised national budget. The reason why the employment rate grows more than in the past. In 2020, the government is contributing to a growth in free income of 1.3 billion. kr. The growth rate is lower than in previous years, because the growth rate in the expenditure of municipalities is lower than in previous years in terms of population recruitment and pensions. However, the action space of the municipalities is approx. 300 million. when we subtract from demography and pension costs and the investment in the growth of free income. Updated preliminary figures show an average annual growth rate for the municipal sector of free revenues per capita of 0.7 pst. from 2013 to 2018, against 0,6 pst. from 2005 to 2013. The impact in the municipal sector has declined in recent years, but municipalities can make their operations more efficient. If they do it with 0.5 pst, it will release the additional 1.3 billion. kr which can be used to strengthen service provision in addition to the growth of the free income received by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3403	Work for all is priority number one for the Workers' Party. The key to integration is work, and the path to work is through education and qualification. Others have to be able to support themselves and their families. The introduction programme needs to be more work-oriented. The programme must lead to more real qualification and be more individualised, so that we get less variation in the results between municipalities. For many, for different reasons and for varying periods, there is no job. The aim must be that this period should be kept as short as possible, and that all efforts should be made to provide people with skills that qualify for work. That is why we are promoting competence billions in our alternative budget for 2020. In an increasingly formal labour market, labour market policy needs to be strengthened. The measures need to focus more on training and real qualification leading to a solid footing in the labour market. Education must be used as labour market measures to a greater extent than at present. It is necessary to organise courses in which wage subsidies are combined with professional letters and permanent employment in the future, in close cooperation with the social partners. The proportion of young people who are not at work is high. The number of young workers is increasing. Unfortunately, the system of redundancy payments is severely cut in this budget. Many people who have some work skills still get 100 pst. not carried out. The lack of completion of secondary education is an important part of this issue. The working party has a priority of 100 million. in addition to the government's budget for municipal migration measures. The Workers' Party will strengthen its 20 million language practice sites. kr. The Labour Party will increase incentives for more labour-oriented Norwegian, labour Norwegian and industry Norwegian by 20 million. kr. In addition, we propose to strengthen Jobjessen by 10 million. kr. This may result in several years in the introduction programme for them requiring longer qualification courses. We also propose 50 million. extra to measures aimed at domestic women. This initiative is part of the Workers' Party's competence billion. Only by being specific about how to meet future skills requirements can we make more people live on our own salary. Empty words do not enter the account every month.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3418	As we have heard from this pulpit all day: the differences in Norway are increasing. The economic and social differences between us living here are increasing every year. It does something to us as a society. The politics of the government parties are leading us towards ever-increasing differences. The 30 pst. With the lowest income in Norway, poorer advice has been given since 2013, and the richest of them are getting richer. The top 10 pst. The wealthiest now owns almost 60 pst. of all assets — and the differences are increasing. Since 2014, the richest have had 8 billion. kr in tax cuts. Young people’s benefits on redundancy benefits are to be cut — and differences are increasing. The proposals for cutting in support of glasses and dental regulation are insurmountable. That's very understandable. In addition to being unsocial cuts, there is also one of the more and more symptoms that this government creates even greater differences between people. And they do it knowingly about the consequences. For economic differences, something matters. Increasing economic differences and increasing the number of people living in poverty have consequences — consequences for individuals and consequences for us as a society. And when the economic differences become differences in health, differences in education, differences in participation, just differences in opportunities, then as a society we have a problem. Differences produce differences. One’s mental health, how to live, the probability of experiencing loneliness – the differences seem to be there, of course. We're still going to be a society with little differences. That's the target. But it also requires action. I don't think it's so hard to see that in order for the differences to be smaller, it has to be redistributed to. And tax is one of our best tools to ensure redistribution. The Labour Party's draft budget requires those who earn the most to pay more in taxes. The rest will have to pay less. That's what is real redistribution, and that's what's the way to smaller differences. According to the government, the richest of us are motivated by more. Taxes to the richest are given over many years, with the reason that they are motivated to create even greater values. But those with least of us are apparently motivated by getting even less. They shall be motivated by social security schemes. It has to be cut and cut. We want to be a country with little differences because we know that everyone wins. But then we need other parties to rule this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3433	When the Storting deals with government budget proposals, the goal for us elected by the people must be to continue building societies by facilitating increased value creation and growth across the country. Finnmark is rich in natural resources, has a varied business life, but will always need more secure, profitable jobs. But if Finnmark is to be able to take advantage of its natural advantages, we are dependent on well-functioning societies and a good public service offer. The government parties decided to merge Troms and Finnmark despite strong resistance, and the regional reform is implemented from the New Year. The reform should be a reform of democracy. Decision-making power and tasks were to be moved closer to people, and county municipalities were to have a greater role as a social developer. However, the county authorities find that there are significant differences between the objectives of the regional reform and the financial framework of the county councils in order to meet the expectations created. The county economic framework for 2020 is challenging, in addition to the fact that the county municipalities have large outright aggregation costs. These are the costs the government has incurred on the counties. There will be very demanding budgetary processes. Cuts in county budgets will have a negative impact on young people in higher education, business, cultural services, public transport and road maintenance. The municipal economy is also under heavy pressure, and most municipalities in Finnmark have a greater real decline than the national average of 1 pst. This leads to constant migration processes, with increased pressure on employees. Many experience poorer working conditions, more conflicts and increased workload, while at the same time risking less municipal services. The completion of the new Church Hospital was delayed. The job has been to correct faults and deficiencies that should have been avoided. Although employees have made a formidable effort, they are now required to contribute to a cut of 100 million. kr, in addition to the fact that the helicopter landing site will not be completed before 2023 at the earliest due to a lack of 20 million. kr. At the same time, the decision to build a new Hammerfest hospital was postponed until December pending this reduction of 100 million. kr, leading to increased frustration and unrest among both patients and employees. This comes at the top of the uncertainty and challenges surrounding the change of operator in the air ambulance. Good county services, municipal services and public health services across the country are crucial in people's everyday lives. This is why the Workers' Party proposes in its alternative budget to strengthen the framework of county municipalities, strengthen the framework of municipalities, strengthen the framework of hospitals, the ambulance service, decentralised food supply and mental health protection throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3448	On Monday TV 2 sent an episode of the new series of Norway behind the façade. In the episode we get an insight into a working life we cannot accept that exists in Norway. The series shows us workers from Eastern Europe who live under dire conditions, in the village of setbacks, serve far below the generalized tariff and live under enormous pressure. Worse still, we see examples of people in Norway who actively exploit these people in vulnerable situations. We see examples of human trafficking happening right behind our backs in our own country. The International Slavery Index assumes that as many as 9000 people can be defined as slaves in Norway today, people who are subjected to forced labour to survive. In the episode that was sent, we see representatives from the Church's Bymition who walk around the city and meet people who have fallen out of society as a result of forced labour and inhuman pressure and conditions in the Norwegian working life. They tell us that they often meet people who have suicidal thoughts when picked up on the streets of Oslo. The Church's Bymition also takes responsibility for a safe house for people who are so afraid of persecution from their employers that they have to stay in secret with strict security measures to ensure their own safety. In the series, we see that the most successful steps we have taken towards this work-life crime and the exploitation of people are bringing together the responsibilities of the different units in a common a-krim centre. The series shows us that there is a need for even stronger cooperation, we shall overcome this unfortunate development. Therefore, it disappoints me to see that the government in its budget cuts the Labour Inspectorate, through the so-called ABE cuts. It will mean fewer actions and supervision that can stop the development that we are now seeing. In 2018, the Labour Inspectorate had 4 500 less supervision than in 2015. For the Workers' Party, the situation is clear. We cannot be satisfied with the situation in Norway, how many people live under modern slavery. We need to strengthen efforts against the backers who exploit people in vulnerable situations. We have to stop that development of working life before it snaps. That's why our budget would have given $170 million. to work supervision and to new a-krim centres to combat this reality. It is a pity that no more follow up on such a proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3461	The Progress Party believes that Norwegian health workers have every reason to be proud of the good work they do. I was truly happy in my heart when I read the post to Kine Marie in the Official Journal of Bergen last month and the follow-up post that the protective caretaker Marion had in today's Bergensavisen. Both boasts of the job they do in the health sector, and I hope many more do. Marion writes so wisely that we have to ‘receive the menacing wave of old age with dignity and professional pride’. And she says that in the job she does as a protective caretaker, she makes an incredibly big difference, that it means something to others, and that that's why her dream job. I could not agree more. All the elderly deserve to have a caretaker like Marion, who realizes how incredibly important that job is. However, it is bad to read when someone mentions nursing homes as hell's courtyard. A nursing home shall not be a last storage place, but a place that provides an exciting everyday life for our elderly through activity and joy. It should be a good place to live. The progress is very clear that you should be able to enjoy getting old. People must be able to live good lives their whole lives. Unfortunately, many politicians are making this a debate on private versus public welfare. I think a lot of politicians in between have a good thing to do about what can be called ideological glasses, and rather focus on the quality of life and well-being of the elderly. The government has taken several steps to follow up on this. We have a historical commitment to our day care centres, several annual works and increased employee competence. This work continues in 2020. The examples are many, but I can draw someone out. It is proposed to grant a grant of 2000 lucky day places in hospitals or nursing homes. The Government proposes an overall commitment framework of 400 million. kr for the establishment of the local kitchen in hospitals and nursing homes. The party's heartbreak about an elderly representative is coming into place – absolutely amazing. And last, but not least, the government is proposing to extend the experiment with state-funded care services to six new municipalities. It was with a heavy heart that I read yesterday that Gäsdal FrP promoted this in the living conditions committee and was voted down. You can, for example: See what Terje Søviknes was able to achieve in Us, ensuring the financing and operation of 44 new places at the Luranetunet Hospital and ensuring the long-term operation of the care of the elderly in institutions and home services. Let's hope that e.g. The local government of Gjesdal realizes that there is no shame whatsoever to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3476	The representative Battle Violence Vedum described one day in his life and his journey through the country, and he wondered if we from the government parties are not traveling. Well, I can also tell you from a random day. I get up in the morning, wakes up my daughter and prepares her for delivery in the kindergarten – a kindergarten that now has several employees because we have introduced a standard of staffing. In kindergarten, I meet the craftsman, who is going to deliver his kid, driving a typical work car. It is possible for him to use the craftsman car simply because we have changed the impossible legislation, so that he can now actually use the work car without risking criminal tax. The craftsman is a low-income cardboard and saves thousands of dollars a year because in 2015 this government introduced reduced parental pay for them by at least. In Kinderhagen, all five-year-olds are to receive swimming training this year because this government introduced a grant scheme for swimming training in kindergartens in 2015. In Gäsdal municipality, all five-year-olds now receive that offer. After coming to Oslo, I can choose and wreck over a hundred more daily train trips into and out of Oslo Centre, and I choose to travel to Sandvika. There I visit the high school in real science, a school that started because this government changed the law so that profile schools that wanted to bet on real science could start. Here I meet students who have a genuine interest in science, math, physics, chemistry, astronomy and everything that moves in space. It's schooly kids, but kids who like to go outside the crowd at the school they went to before. Here, the young people they share interest with and who have the same talents, and they're in a school environment where they get the opportunity to flourish and make friends. The characters are good, the school is at the top national level, and they don't have bullying. Later, I moved on to Vestfold and drove a car on the E18, which was formerly called the ‘death road’, but which is now a four-field motorway with a speed limit of 110 km/h and one of the safest roads in the country. On this way there are tolls, but I pay less than 60 kroner in tolls and not 112 kroner, as it was added under the red-green ones. In Tønsberg, I visit Fåder Secondary School, where we talk about the vocational training that this government has started, and I hear that for the past six years we have seen that the results in Norwegian school are moving in the right direction. The students learn more, they are more present, fewer falls from, absence goes down, grades go up, bullies go down, and more people get learning contracts. On my way home, I drive to the Egg Farm in Lier, where I can buy alcoholics, since the Minister of Agriculture liberalised the law in 2016. I wish I had ten minutes of speaking time, as the representative of the Battle of Vedum had, I would tell you about many more trips around the country, but I'm sure there's a lot of positive in this state budget that makes us get more good stories to tell in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3496	The government party is very busy talking about exports from Norwegian agriculture. Norway has had two large export products – Jarlsbergost and fur. Both parts of the government have been disbanded. Today we shall adopt a budget in which we spend money on compensation because we impose a ban on a profitable industry. And today, the Minister of Agriculture sends out the regulation. It's a black Wednesday for the fur farmers in the country. Of course, private traders must be fully compensated when the government imposes a ban on the business they operate. But Minister of Agriculture Olug Vervik Bollestad has today presented a compensation scheme that will still be far from providing the majority of farmers with full compensation for the economic loss. For those who operate reefs, this system is just as bad as what was on the listener. For those who drive with a mink, it is still such that there will be great losses for single actors. This is a way to treat decent people who are totally irresponsible. Great words were given on June 13 when we dealt with this matter in Stortinget. The rule has not been fulfilled. The government has failed to raise its voice on this matter. It's a serious day for everyone who's concerned about nutrition and private ownership. I wonder if the government believes in what they have submitted. I wonder if they think that people are so stupid that if they just do something a little bit better than something that was miserable, it's gonna cheer. There is no joy in this, and there is no reason to rejoice for it. That's how the government works – that the fur farmers in the country should know this by the Minister of Agriculture giving an interview to NTB. But there was no regulation. One has no contact with the farmers and their organizations to inform. It's a way to treat people who are completely irresponsible. It's not useful to be very festive on Instagram about a not mastering the job of managing and treating the people you're government council for, really. The centre party has put forward proposals in Stortinget which will ensure full compensation for the economic loss of a lir. When we know what the government intends to give, we must get ahead of this treatment, because the Storting cannot accept the compensation scheme that the government and Agriculture Minister Olug Vervik Bollestad have presented today. It will be – and is – a black Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3517	Earlier today, the representative Tuva Moflag took a line on Left's fiscal figure and asked him questions about the midwife's situation at Akershu University Hospital. Abid Q. Raja replied well about the government's hospital policy, but since there are limits to what poor fiscal politicians should be able to handle in terms of the details of the individual hospitals' challenges, and since I expect the representative to have an answer to his question in the first place – for that is what this is all about – I am pleased to clarify the following: In June, the Norwegian midwife association carried out a survey of its 700 members at the OUS, Haukeland, Stavanger, Vestre Viken and Ahus. It showed pretty properly that 66 pst. assessed to end. We can't have it that way. This is why the Health Directorate has been commissioned by the Minister for Health to set up a professional group to look at whether the working situation of midwives has changed over time and what should or must be changed. The time limit for this task shall be 1 March 2020. Having said that, this government really has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of the number of midwives positions in this country, because, in parallel with the decline in the number of births in Norway, the number of midwives has increased radically since 2013. As a result, the ratio of the number of midwiferies in hospitals per 10,000 births since 2015 has ranged from 265 to 274. When the number of midwives in hospitals has decreased in nominal terms from 1,565 to 1,508 in the same period, midwives in municipalities have almost doubled from 2013 to 2019. Now I happen to know that the representative Moflag has a certain experience with births, and then there is reason to assume that she understands the importance of getting a better coverage of the midwife's capacity in Kommune-Norway both to prepare the birthing and not least in the follow-up after the birth has taken place. In sum: this government takes birth care very seriously, as it suits a welfare society. Should emergency conditions arise in some hospitals, it will be managed as soon as it can be done, for example. in cooperation with the Sondermoor Association. To suggest something else is only suitable to spread uncertainty about the conditions of pregnant women in Norway. There's no basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3528	You get a little déjà vu feeling about today's financial debate. I have to admit that it is suspiciously reminiscent of last year's debate and the debate the year before that. We're in position to boast of our bets – and that for good reason – and the opposition is coming out and trying to put us in place because they've managed to scrape together a few extra dollars to some of these bets. It's an exercise I have to admit that we both remember and miss a little bit from the time in the opposition. But it is therefore at least equally important to remember everything that is done, including in the budget, that is not about money – for money is not the solution to all the world's problems. If it were, we would hardly have had any problems in Norway. So I want to draw up some of the system changes, some of the examples that show you're afraid to think about new and challenging old systems, and that I think is at least as important as some of the sums in the state budget. One such example is the establishment of New Roads, an example of building whole rather than divided. And what's the result? Well, you can see that they're able to build their portfolio 25 billion. kr cheaper than the alternative. And what does that mean? Well, it means more transportation for money and more well-being for taxpayers. We've seen the same thing in the train sector, where, because of the introduction of competition, Vy says that from one year to the next they're able to drive the same train sections at a quarter of the price – the same company, the same distances, but it happens by challenging the systems and organizing things in a different way. In the health sector, too, we see the same thing. The patient ceiling was removed after the government change in 2013. By removing the ceiling on the extent to which patient treatment could be provided by public hospitals, combined with health care and the introduction of free treatment, patients’ queues have been brought down. It's an important change that's not only about crowns and ears, but also about drying out the systems and organizing things in a different way. One last example I would like to draw up is a project that is very important for the Progress Party, namely government funding for the care of the elderly. We see that in the municipalities that have introduced this, the administration says that users are put in the center, that the quality of services is increasing, and that they are getting more predictability and more economic muscles. These examples show that drying out the systems, thinking new and perhaps using some common sense can be at least as important as part of the sums and part of the heads and ears of this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3545	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3550	But how we distribute the money says something about what values we put on. For SV, it is important that older people receive good and safe care. The representative Heimdal was up and talked very warmly about it instead, and she claimed that others had ideological glasses on them. But I am now sitting with the cut lists from many municipalities. Bodø will save 342 million. SEK, Sortland 95 million. kr, Arendal 14 mill. SEK in the care of the elderly, and Senja SEK 41 million. kr. Caregivers, health professionals and nurses must be paid if they are to do the job in the care of the elderly, and SV is to give priority to this, so that more nurses, caregivers and health professionals can be hired and they can meet the elderly, the younger and those with mental health problems and those in need of child protection. That's a value choice we're making. The progress party does not take that choice. The advance party is giving the big money to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3559	A little bit more about the economic philosophy of the right-hand side, as it has also shaped this debate: What's right-hand thinking is that tax relief is a free thing. There's something you can do without having any effect. Of course, that's completely untrue, everyone knows that. Local politicians too know that very well. There are several political cats that have come out of the political bag. There's a lot of right-wing representatives up here talking about that now there's so many municipalities out of ROBEK. It's a form of political novelty, because what's real is that many municipalities have had to adapt to the new income base and have taken the responsibility that the government does not take because it does not finance the municipalities in a satisfactory way. That's what's real. The municipalities are the welfare producers in Norway. It's the ones that really stand for this, and you're trying to ignore it. So the representative says Bjørnstad that we have to use the tax dollars effectively. Yes, I agree, but is it effective to take them out of the community? Is there an effective way to do that? Then the representative Bjørnstad also said in his reply that there were no tax cuts in this budget. No, but he's continuing a 25-billion-billion-dollar tax. kr lower than when the government joined. That's half the state budget. This is the reality of the matter, in many ways. This is the reality. It's necessary to handle this in such a way that we understand what this really is and what it isn't. So I'd say there's another cat out of the bag. That's the thing about the dental regulation, which the representative Bjørnstad talked about. That's fine. He said we don't have to maintain that system, because it's not like that in the other countries. We who have so much money, so we can't afford to keep up with this. Maybe it's an expression that we here in Stortinget – and there may be a lot of us – don't fully understand what it means to have little money, what it means to use our own wallet to pay NOK 2000 – NOK 3000 to handle such a regulation. That's what this is all about. For many, it is a reality that is very difficult and very challenging, and therefore this is a very regrettable development in policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3570	It was nice to have the speaker's chair after the representative Kolberg, because I'm going to come up with a little bit if not him personally, so at least a little bit of the trends. Because after taking a small air trip out and after being up in New Year's New Year's New Year's, I felt like I was seeing the Storting a little bit from the outside when I came back. So I thought, well, then I guess I can let myself sum up a little bit, seen from a very subjective platform, of course. And I think there are some exciting trends to see. At least there's a lot going on like before, it's not so much new to see: the right hand side is right, and the left hand side is left hand side, and I guess it should be that way. It's just to hope that most people follow the differences between these blocks. There are two major existential problems that humanity is facing, it has not been mentioned enough in this room today. There is a lot of money, funding, which direction the budgets are going to go. I have to say, the two UN panels have been a little lost. A little bit of climate has been, when true to be said, but perhaps not so much on the UN Panel on Nature. But what we see is at least that of the parties that really raise their eyes and take these questions seriously, if I'm completely honest, the biggest, and then it's MDG and Red, maybe. The large batches take too little hold, and the government's batches take at least. So it's going in the wrong direction. Nevertheless, something has happened. It breaks and cracks in the government alliances, we've seen that, and most of all we see it well between the Left and the Advance Party. But then you can ask, how is it on the other side, what is it like in the opposition? How has it emerged here today, and how has it appeared in the media, in our speech in recent times? There are also some rather exciting moves to see. I think some things are going in the right direction, towards some sort of common direction, if not other. It was also very exciting to see that the play that SV had from the national government meeting last time, with a kind of ‘five-gathering’ – towards one direction – is not just about tilting the government of the stick, sail if it’s important enough, but this is a collection towards a direction that should make less differences between people. Because there's no question about it, there's no doubt about it! There is also a direction to address the major climate challenges and this with a reduction in nature and living areas. It's very exciting to see. So we'll see how these outputs of SV are received. There have been exciting things coming from the largest party, also in relation to the green, where the big party has hung a little bit behind. And it also seems that some prejudices against the greenest and the redtest have gone a little bit away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3581	We have a red and large public sector in Norway. That we found oil has laid the foundation for the well-being we experience today. Budgetary policy, regardless of who has run the country, has been about how loose or how hard to press the accelerator. That reality we're about to leave, and priority has never been more important. In a world marked by globalisation, climate challenges and ever-increasing polarisation, we need a political debate where we come together. Polarisation provides short-termity and unforeseeability. At the same time, protectionism in the world is in strong growth. It's us against them, the good against the evil. Politics is no longer about different interests; it is about ideology. Rather, when we should talk about quality and innovation, we see that a number of cities are now re-communizing welfare services. Our welfare money should not go into the pockets of private operators, it is said. It seems worse than to imagine that our tax money is going to finance a harsh public sector, where sick leave and costs are significantly higher than in the private sector. It may be difficult to compete, but it is even more difficult to impose a monopoly. As long as you get rid of the welfare profiters, everything is good, claims the left-hand side. Unfortunately, ‘private’ has become a musculoskeletal word in the public debate. Can we afford to shut the private out, while the oil revenues are decreasing and we're getting older? I wonder about the black coloring of Norwegian business on the left. We have essentially decent pay and working conditions and a working life that is completely in the top of the world, because of our high trust and our ability to cooperate. We are known for our tripartite cooperation, which has made Norway the country we know today. Our business consists of business managers who take employment risks and invest time and capital to create jobs. They depend entirely on having good employees on the team. One assumes the other. Over the past year, 50,000 more have come to work, 40,000 of them in the private sector, an industry that contributes to healthy competition and provides quality and innovation. A large and generous public sector requires high value creation in the private sector. We can't start building monopolies now. Private entrepreneurs take great risks when creating jobs and they do not deserve the scepticism they face. We must give greater priority to future government budgets, and then there is no recommuneration and exclusion of the private solution. We need private business to join the team if we are to create quality and innovation for our future well-being. Only then can we maintain a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3600	It must be allowed to ask questions about what is going on with the representative, Kolberg. His aggression against the rich is, of course, directly alarming. What Kolberg forgets is that many of the rich have started with two empty hands, pawned houses and homes, established businesses, provided jobs, earned income. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the corner stone enterprises in the district of Norway. Where is the logic of taxing the lathe in the furniture factory? Where is the logic of taxing the lathe when the furniture factory is running short? What the representative of Kolberg forgets is what the Workers' Party has actually joined – how to use the yield of the oil fund. It was to be used for infrastructure, research and growth-promoting tax relief. Growth-promoting tax relief is an unknown concept for the representative of Kolberg. What is also a little eye-catching is the blindness of the representative, Mr Kolberg, for the need to implement reforms in the public sector. It seems that the representative Kolberg and the Workers' Party have some sort of anxiety about dealing with social support schemes. It may happen, contrary to assumption, on the day the Workers' Party is held responsible, that one might then meet a new day of work and be confronted with the realities and the need to do something with the public sector. So to the representative Holen Bjørdal of the Workers' Party, who claims that the Right has no prerequisites for understanding the districts and becoming a district party. Then I think you have to put your light under a ship – or a bucket, as you would say today. So this is the party that's gradually become a fairly medium sized, medium sized, part from Stjørdal and northwards. I spent a good part of my summer vacation on bicycles around Norway. It's a pleasure to see the wealth and living conditions that are in District Norway. Sometimes it struck me: I guess there had been generational shifts in all the houses, when I saw the prosperity and the well-being of people I talked to in the north and in the south, expressed. It is then in stark contrast to the picture drawn by the Center Party and the Working Party of District Norway. Then there's someone who doesn't understand District Norway, it might have to be the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3609	There is no way to hear what to hear during such a debate, and there is no way in which the black paint opposition uses when painting the picture of Norway. According to the representative Dag Terje Andersen, we in Norway have one of the most extreme governments in the world, in Europe. Then you paint wide. Hungary, Poland and Russia, like liberal democracies, are going to be compared to us here north. It's a powerful diet. Karin Andersen followed up by saying that the government with open eyes condemns people to eternal poverty. It's quite free from a party representative who promised to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. Nevertheless, the number of poor children increased by 15 000 when SV ran the country. Credibility is non-existent. Equally little credibility has the SV and Labour Party representatives who are up here on the platform to tell us that their tax arrangements provide relief to employees with ordinary income. Don't think we forgot what they did when they were in government. At that time, the fasitium was that everyone with an income greater than NOK 300000 received an increase in tax. It meant increased taxes for the industrial worker, for the pre-school teacher and for the health professional. Now promises the lower taxes, and in a situation of lower tax levels than when they themselves fell. If that were to happen, it would be this government's greatest trick. Norwegian policy would then have been changed forever. Imagine getting a situation where we can stand here and argue about who's going to give the biggest tax dollars. It would have been something. But Adam was not in paradise for long. After this, the chief ideologist, the demagologist, and the heir of Tranmæm came to the pulpit – Martin Kolberg. Then you were back to the same old, the same old rhetoric about the right parties and how much we give to the very, the richest, even though the budget for next year is approximately chemically free of tax relief. If the map and terrain are not correct, Kolberg says it must be the terrain that is wrong. I suspect that Kolberg has never been a big orientator. When Kolberg says that we are behind increased inequalities in Norway, he forgets that the reason for this is lower corporate tax. He also forgets that he himself has voted for this, and he did quite right in it. In the short term, although this increases disparities very moderately, it in the long term leads to more investment being taken home instead of in our neighbouring countries. It will again provide more jobs. That's good politics, and it was of course reasonable for Kolberg to vote for these tax concessions, even though it on paper has made some richers even richer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3619	I'll try to say thank you for a good debate so far, because although there are some speakers left, it's at least going to the end. When I was a little younger, I remember sitting at home with my family and watching a TV show called ‘Do you want to be a millionaire?’ with Fridtjof Wilborn as programme manager. He had someone in the hall who would answer questions, and who was given three aids. Otherwise, winning one million in such a TV program is the only thing that everyone agrees not to pay taxes on, including the left-hand side – just winning money is allowed to do tax-free. But what was paradoxical was that three different instruments were put in place, just as we politicians do when we're going to find money. We can't win them, but we have to find them. Then you can either streamline the public sector, you can bake the cake bigger by creating more, and that more jobs, or you can increase the tax. What's consistent with all the opposition parties is that they agree on which tool they choose first. It's increasing the tax. That's the difference between the bourgeois government and the red-green opposition. In addition to that, I would say that the debate has been quite leaping, simply, because the opposition has been completely dissenting both about what they are against and about what the world really looks like. In this debate – a word about what the representative Bjørnstad said about black paint – we have been accused of shutting down Norwegian industry. We have also been told that the local economy is really very poor, although there are very few municipalities on the ROBEK list. But SV and the Workers' Party disagree on why there are few municipalities on the ROBEK list. The working party says that this is because they have had very good advice over a few years because of tax changes, while SV says that they have always had very bad advice, they have only cut so much that there is no money left. You can be together to oppose the government, but you can't disagree on why the earth is round, and everything else. At least it must be possible to agree on the reality you have. The representative of Kolberg has made several comments – I would also like to thank him for mentioning both the representative of Bjørnstad and me as a relatively young person, which is a compliment from the representative of Martin Kolberg. But when the representative Kolberg says that it's not an effective thing to take the tax money out of the community, there's a view of society that I want to take a great distance from, like liberal and conservative, but actually also as a Northman. Because if the idea is that all the money in society, including those you earn through the job you do, is really the state's, and that you might be allowed to keep some of them, I deeply disagree with that. That's why I don't resort to the tool that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party always do, namely to increase the taxes for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3632	What the Right Party and the Advance Party do, and they do it systematically, is increase the fees for people most. Henrik Asheim, who is a financial officer for the Right, has certainly learned that the Right has increased the fees for most people with approx. 6.3 B.C.E. kr – a targeted increase in fees that affects many with low and medium income. Before today I read something another Right-Man had written, a Right-Police in Odda, Nils Petter Freim, which is the wisest thing I've read by a Right-Man today. He wrote as follows: As a Right-Man, I believe that my own party should seek a better district policy. The government must end with customs centralisation and build up the districts. Finally, a right-wing man who speaks reason: that we must end with stupid centralization. When I hear the representative of Haarek Riveres, who has been cycling in Northernland, it is a little strange that he – although he has moved from that county – has not got what has happened, and does not mention with a single word that Northernland has had a greater deportation than what has ever been registered by the SSB in the last three months. Since we started producing quarterly reports on population development, this is the largest and most dramatic depopulation ever recorded, with 702 in three months. It's the facts, it's the numbers from the SSB. It's not certain that the Rivers or the Right like it, but it's the consequences of their policies. So far, Nordic countries have lost 937 inhabitants, Troms 827 and Finnmark 325. The SSB says, "Just call the scientists themselves, they've never experienced more numbers in a quarter than they've experienced in Northern Ireland now." And that's not so strange, because the government's biggest common project is the centralization of the public sector. We've seen it within the police, we've seen it within municipalities, counties, district courts, colleges and traffic stations, we've seen it within Nav, and today we're going to implement a new centralisation reform. The government – not us – wants to lay down 237 local tax offices around large and small areas, for example. where I was last week, in Brønnøysund, where it is to be laid down and centralised to Bodø. It hits Helgeland again. This has been the government's big project. Then it's amazing that the government doesn't take it any more seriously when we in the Central Party raise the trade deficit that is. For the mainland Norway trade deficit has increased from 152 billion. SEK in 2013 to 252 billion. kr. in 2018, and it is growing even more this year. So the arrows go in the wrong direction. It's not like the Norwegian economy has changed, it's not like there's come a lot of new industrial jobs or green value creation. We've never been more oil dependent than we are now. That's the fact. We have never been more oil addicts, but nevertheless, instead of taking it seriously, Erna Solberg’s main answer is to find new rhetoric, new words – just as when they called the centralisation of the Norwegian police the ‘near-police reform’. If we are to have a good debate, at least we have to be honest with the realities, and we have a government that centralizes, not transforms, the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3645	What unites the government parties in this debate are the points of speech that the opposition disagrees so much. So think, we have five different opposition parties that have submitted five different alternative budgets – incredible! I understand that it's fine with a common enemy, that's clear. It is more comfortable to talk about the opposition than about its own policies, especially when there is a policy that increases the differences, which reduces welfare, which lacks a plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions and convert Norway into a climate nation. So the government's policy is a double standards display: one set of rules for those who have the least in the past, and another set of rules for those who have the most. Those who have little should be motivated by less. DKr 130 000 is now the minimum performance for young disabled people. It's very little to live on. Then the representative Asheim would like to say that this government does not increase the taxes for most people. No, but this government is taking away those who have the least. Those who have a lot, on the other hand, should be motivated by getting more. That's why the government is still giving billions of gifts to the richest people in the country. Thus, the cut in the wealth tax alone involves more than one million each to the thousands richest in Norway — a total of one billion. With one billion dollars, far fewer young people could grow up in poverty in Norway, our birth care could have been significantly strengthened, we could have more teachers and more help nurses and better child protection. Because, which also the Right likes to point out, it's about prioritizing. And we in SV prioritise our common well-being, the community and the small differences, while the Right prioritizes the country's richest. Had they got their will, what the Right actually means, the country would be richest, like Kjell Inge Smoke and Øystein Stray Spetalen, not paying taxes at all. The opposition and SV will go another way. We are five different parties, but we agree on a different direction for Norway. We agree that the differences under this government have become too large, and that we must redeploy – from the richest to the richest to the community and the well-being. We showed it with the red-green government, which the representative Bjørnstad pulled out, because then we redistributed more. At that time, it was less poor in Norway than it is today. We agree that climate action must be increased and that the green transition must be fair. And we agree that centralisation must be stopped and reversed, and that municipalities and county councils must be strengthened. This is a different vision for Norway and another direction, which can take Norway into the next decade, which can turn Norway into a country with small differences and which faces the climate crisis — and that is a project I believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3660	I would like to thank you for the debate as it approaches the end. It seems that the main criticism from the government party has been that there is disagreement between the opposition party. So it comes from the parties that can't get any if they want to ban homotherapy, which can't be any of what the zero growth target in cities is for, and which even have people who aren't any if climate change is man-made or not. So I don't know completely, I do, but it might not be the best attack strategy they've chosen here. Nevertheless, there is something about this debate that reminds me of something former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said in 2010 about the dwindling government. It must be said that at the time she was perhaps a little tired and a little tired – she said that this project lacks booze. That's how it works on the right hand side, too. The time has not been 21 p.m., and it seems that the government party will be home rather than defending its priorities or what their policy means to the country, for example. that they are pursuing a welfare policy that Victor Norman, the former Right-State Council itself, says is a cowardly strategy, or that they are pursuing a policy towards industry which, at worst, both increases global emissions and reduces the number of Norwegian jobs. This is not a debt from the Workers' Party, this is something the industry itself says, and as I think the right party must take seriously. They also throw money at people who are strong, both when it comes to tax cuts they want to carry out, and by insisting that the community finance the purchase of luxury cars. In other words, they passively defend the systems that they themselves have created, rather than thinking about new things, rather than misleading something more. We in the Workers' Party want something more. We want to think about something new. We also show it with our alternative budget. We propose a North Sea plan that sees the industrial potential of the North Sea in context, whether it is carbon capture and storage, sea wind or electrification of the base – it is about securing jobs many years in advance. We propose a national model for a more serious working life, with demands for stepping up the use of apprentices to 10 pst. hours worked, with 50 pst. hours worked by skilled workers, with Norwegian languages among key personnel at all levels of work. We suggest increasing the interest rate rebate to the Municipal Bank, so that the schools and care homes that are being built now, which will be there for the next 20, 30, 40 years or so, are built in climate-friendly ways. Through our alternative budget and through the debate we have had today, we show a policy for a fairer and more climate-friendly Norway where more people get the opportunity to be in work, so that ordinary people can experience that it is their turn at last, that it is their wallet, their welfare, their communities that are given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3673	Let me add to the line that has thanked me for a good debate. This debate is good because it gives room to see the priorities, because it must also lead to implications when it comes to proposals, and one is required to set important objectives against the most important ones. I think that maybe is also healthy for the debate in Stortinget. This means that one gets to draw some replicas where the Christian People's Party can challenge the Labour Party that when they propose to cut the disposable income, it will actually hit some of the families that have the least, the most, or when it comes to one day that the Centre's alternative government budget will mean fewer government jobs in Förde, Lillesand, Hønefoss and Leikangger, and that one gets to see the things that are not actually prioritised, but where one criticises the use of money and then prioritizes the money for other and more important purposes. In any case, it makes the debate clearer and clearer, and I believe that this debate we will have to take on board the fact that it can become tougher in the future as well. If we look back in time, there are few government budgets and few situations that have had the space for action that we now have. If we look forward in time, the perspective message says that there will be more room for action because of demographics and because of the political ambitions that we bind up in various important projects. Looking around us in the world, I think there are few parliaments I would rather have ours and discussed the state budget in than the Norwegian one. We are quite privileged to have this debate. At such a time, it is particularly important, I think, that we have a sober and responsible budget, which takes over the shadows that one sees in the horizon, which we have to take seriously, above all the climate crisis, that we get a government budget that not only makes it more expensive to pollute and follow up the commitments one has to follow up the climate change that Norwegian business is forced to face, and is forced to be a leader in, but that one also looks at the space of action and takes important steps to increase employment and dare to prioritize the steps that we are required to take. I'll bring with me a lot of good input from this debate, but there was one post and one quote that stayed with me beyond the evening. It was Terje Aasland who quoted old Minister of Finance Brofoss, who said that we live on each other's work, not on the other. Although there were parts of the post for Aasland I might not have been entirely in agreement with, I thought it was an important delivery gel to bring with me. I think that if we're going to be able to have the space of action that we have to live up to the commitments to the coming generations, it's a rule we should take into consideration several of the discussions about how we can get up to the level of employment. Because we have important projects, perhaps especially to manage to raise and secure more families and strengthen the economy of those who have at least before, most of all, and then we also need to take on the seriousness of living from each other's work, not just their other.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3690	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3695	I see the need to correct an obvious factual error from the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum. He said it was a deportation from Northern Ireland of over 700. That's not true. There is a decline in the population of over 700, and it is again related to the birth rate and immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3700	I think it has been a good debate, and I am saying thumbs up to the representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, who I believe have made good contributions, engaged contributions, for something they want to do in the future. And I think we from the government have received posts that look back and praise their own efforts. Let me say that: I've been in government myself for eight years, and it's recognizable at this point in the cycle. But I notice that there is not one parliamentary leader from the government parties in this Chamber – not one. I haven't experienced that. It's expression of arrogance and fatigue. But then we're going to raise our eyes, and I'm going to ask myself, who are we going to believe when we're going to look at Norway and the perspective for the future – Harek Riveres on a bike ride or Martin Kolberg with his long experience? I'm proud to have Martin Kolberg on my team, one who sees the inequalities of society. The rivers' bikes around and are turned off by all the wealth. Martin Kolberg has opened the doors and looked behind. It is largely good in the labour market, says the representatives of the right-hand side. Yes, it is. But that's the problem for our society: that when it's pretty good, we leave what's not good, because we're good. That's what Martin Kolberg, with life, says to us. Next year, it's perspective message. It's about perspective, and then we're gonna have to do about cut. The representative, Bjørnstad, says: Think if we can get a competition to give tax cuts – that would have been something. Is that perspective? This is a new word: growth-promoting tax relief. Internationally, the debate is that the safest thing to say about giving that kind of tax cuts is that those who get them pay less taxes. There is no other evidence. And here it's almost a frontal attack if you're suggesting to a challenge that those who have the most have to pay something more -- it's a frontal attack on people's freedom and the desire to work. But what you do is you vacuum after others, the weakest. They shall contribute – that is where the rental is. That's what Martin Kolberg points out. Your debate has come. It's where the Right Party and the Advance Party have got the Christian People's Party to join in last year's loss: to participate in this debate. Here stands the representative, Mr Storehaug, the fiscal politician, smiling and happy and we think we have an exciting debate, and he, like me, praises Terje Aasland. But if we're going to live by each other's work, we're going to enable each other to work, and then we can't say that we're basically doing well. The perspective message that comes should be about how we can get the world's best welfare state, with a public sector where those who work there are believed, heard and proud. How can we get a climate dew that is fair, that ensures jobs, gets emissions down and creates new things? And how can we get a job for decent work? Then it's not useful to say that things are pretty good, then we have to be ambitious, go after the shortcomings and fix them. It's Norway at its best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3715	There has been an interesting debate, with clear dividing lines. As a stjørdaling and a northern tributary, I agree with the Elvenes that it is fine from Stjørdal and northwards. It's fine there, there's a lot of great people living there. But I also know that those who live there are still uncertain. Will the hospital be closed – now or next year? Will the District Court be closed – now or the following year? Will the airfields be shut down, will the ambulances disappear? Will services near us disappear? That's the trouble they're feeling. I think the debate today really confirms that we have a government that transforms and centralises the public sector in Norway in a number of areas. But the Central Party's claim is that they refuse to take political responsibility for what they actually do. I think that's unfortunate, that's one of the big appeal points on the centre party side. But I also want to say two words about another debate that the government is trying to get away from, in a bit of a pointy and remarkable way, and that is the debate on increased charges. Instead of recognising that the fees increase by 6.3 billion. kr, instead of recognising that increased taxes have a social and geographically unfortunate impact, they are finding new curvatures. Today it was that we should no longer discuss adopted taxes and taxes, but we should discuss paid taxes and taxes. Then it was that if you only took a quarter of the fees paid, it was lower. But the point is that if you take all the charges, and the taxes in the same sling, it's 80 billion. In the last six years, this government has been taxing increased taxes and taxes. So one also tries to pretend that you have not increased the fuel charges, by claiming that it is the government's profit that the selling price of petrol and fuel is lower today than it was under the red-green government. Yes, the oil price has neither honor nor guilt for the Advance Party. But the fact is that fuel charges have increased more in one year with this government than they did in eight red-green years. The debate on taxes and how increased charges are distorted, both socially and geographically, is important and the Central Party has raised it. One may try to avoid that debate in many different ways, but it is a very important debate, and it is important that it has come on the agenda. But it requires a sincerity on the theme that we still do not see from the Right and the Advance Party. Then I'll say one thing in the end. Geir Pollestad talked about fur animals. That case came out to the public at 1 p.m. 18.09 today, in the middle of the financial debate and while we are going to deal with a distrust debate in Stortinget. It was hardly random. But whoever thinks that the matter should be hidden or forgotten for that reason is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3730	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. Let's move on to case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3750	The President will arrange the debate as follows: the allocated speaking time is limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3757	The case that has been set aside for a mistrust proposal here today is very serious, namely the social security scandal and the legal scandal. There are people who have been unjustly convicted and put in prison. Some have had to sell houses and homes to serve the demands they would never have, and not least have passed through a terrible humiliation. This should never have happened, but it has. The size has to be clear about how this could actually happen, who should have discovered it, and when, who knew what, and when, and whether one or more members of the government should have intervened at a much earlier time. That must be answered by Stortinget. Now this whole complex of cases is being dealt with by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, following the presentation by the Council of State of Anniken Hauglies to the Stortinget on 5 November. The Committee takes that job very seriously. A number of questions have been asked, more questions will be asked, and it has been decided that an open hearing should be held on 9 January – probably also on 10 January – in order to get answers and to get to the bottom of this case. That Red chooses to conclude already today and promotes the proposal they are making, I think will disturb the important work that is going on. I believe it will be unfortunate and can actually undermine what is going on, and the power of continuing to dig in the matter. I would also like to say that all parties at Stortinget have the opportunity to sit on the Control and Constitutional Committee and could have contributed to that particular work. Not everyone has chosen to do so, nor Red, but it must be up to the individual party to assess. Of course, when such a serious matter is being dealt with in the Storting and in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, an important part of the work will be to assess trust in the government or individual government councils. From the Labour Party we have said that we do not prejudge any conclusions, but we do not rule out that we can end up with a very hard conclusion. But we still haven't got everything on the table. There are many things that still have to be answered and clarified, and it's important that things are done in the right order. That is why we believe today that we cannot support a motion of censure against Mr Hauglie. It has nothing to do with the fact that we do not see what a scandal this case is, or that we do not believe that responsibility should be taken. We believe that all the people who have been wronged against themselves deserve the Storting to do a thorough job. That job has been entrusted to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee by Stortinget. With that in mind, I would recommend that the Group of the Party of Workers vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3774	Eva Kristin Hansen had a good post, and much of the same content is coming now. I would like to begin by quoting from Mr Moxnes' proposal, which he has presented today: ‘No single government council can be loaded for the full extent of this scandal, which has led back to several different government periods. Therefore, the proposer is of the opinion that a thorough examination and treatment is necessary in order to come to an end to the matter and restore confidence in key social institutions.’.» Yes, the thorough investigation is ongoing, through an independent review committee with a high level of competence in EEA law, which also takes the user perspective, and through examination in the control committee. In addition, both Nav and the courts have their own reviews and discussions about what has happened. This is a demanding matter, and as I read the documents we received in the control committee, new questions are emerging. Those questions we want answers to, and the answers need to be seen in context. The Council of State is responding to questions raised several times a week by the Monitoring Committee and will also have to reply to the Committee, together with others who have been involved in the matter at the hearing. Right is busy figuring out how this could happen. We need to find out why what is now the conclusion was not caught, neither when the regulation came in 2011-2012, nor later, before it was caught in this autumn. We have to get to the bottom of the matter, and we have to make sure that something like this does not happen again. The conclusion of the Bears Moxnes is not related to his own introduction, which I referred to. The conclusion should be drawn when the job is done. The right shall contribute to a thorough check. The right has confidence and experience that the Council of State will contribute constructively. Concluding with mistrust of the Council of State today would be totally wrong, and the Right Group is therefore recommended not to support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3792	Svein Harberg quoted from the proposal of the representative of Moxnes the need for a thorough examination and treatment in order to get to the bottom of the matter and restore confidence. So now the review committee has been appointed, the work has started, the control committee has opened up, and hearings are organised in the new year. Despite this, the representative, Mr Moxnes, has already concluded: the Council of State must go. He will not wait for the review of the facts. Then you can ask yourself, what does he know that no one else knows about? This is a political game, if it's allowed to use such a term from this pulpit, and really it's unnecessary to spend more time on it. Bug has been committed and needs to be corrected as soon as possible. At the same time, the Committee of Inquiry and the Control Committee must complete their work, as has been done in previous cases of a very serious nature that have affected both government and magnificence. I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists should not support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3799	I will be brief because previous speakers have stressed much of what the Central Party also thinks is important, especially the representative Eva Kristin Hansen. I can join much of what has been said on her part. We all think this is a very serious matter that has affected many innocent people. At the same time, I think we all want to be clear on all aspects of the matter. There are many unanswered questions and the consultation to be carried out in January will be important for all parties. Anticipating that work is unwise. That's not right either. Once all the facts have come to the table, the discussion comes about the consequences and the responsibilities of the case. On that basis, I would recommend that the Central Party Group vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3808	This case is about the people who have been unjustly convicted of social security fraud, who have innocently been imprisoned. The matter is about thousands of people who have received large repayment claims with economic ruin as a consequence. The case concerns even more thousands of people who have been denied their right and freedom to travel, for example. as one of them to meet his dying sister. The state has unlawfully ruined people's lives. That's the seriousness of this case. These are sick and vulnerable people who have needed help, people who have been hit for many years, without having been discovered by anyone, whether by government, court or magnificence — nor by the press. That's why this case stinks of class justice. SV therefore believes that the case must have consequences, even for them at the top. It cannot be that ordinary people are punished while the responsible are free. We do not in any way exclude mistrust of the State Council Anniken Hauglie in this matter. On the contrary, it is becoming increasingly likely as new information becomes available in today’s light. There is information to show that the alarm could and should have gone before, so that we could avoid several people being unjustly convicted. That's why it's very bad for the victims, who deserve both justice and the whole and full truth about what's happened, that today we get an hasty vote on distrust, which is neither well prepared nor anchored – until we've been answered a number of essential and unanswered questions, before we've got the whole truth about what's happened, and why, on the table, and before we've faced both Hauglie and other ministers in the hearing here at Stortinget. For example, we have not yet received the minutes from meetings of the Ministry of Labour and Nav. They're expected to come tomorrow. Only there can be crucial information about the government’s handling of the case. In addition, Red allows other ministers who may be responsible in this matter to submit this proposal. What about the Minister of Justice's responsibility for the legal security of the victims? What about Prime Minister Erna Solberg's responsibility? I can already inform you that SV and I will propose to ask the Prime Minister about this matter within a few days through the Control Committee. I would like to inform you that it is also relevant for SV to ask the Prime Minister to come to the hearing, as well as the current and former ministers, as well as the Nav Director and the trustees. The sum of all this makes it impossible for us to vote in favour of this proposal now. That would avoid SV. That is why we voted to send the proposal to the committee, i.e. against voting this evening. But when Red chose to promote the proposal, they opened up so that the majority at Stortinget could ensure a quick voting, and in that way weakening the possibility of actually having someone put in charge of this scandal, which I expect is our common goal. It suggests that this was a little thoughtful, and that party political considerations have got in the way of what is best for them this matter is about. SV will continue to work on the matter in Stortinget. We will ensure that we get answers to the unresolved questions, and then – then – we will conclude on what and for whom the consequences of the scandal should be. That's the way to go to get an overview of the consequences of injustice for them at the top as well. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to invite Red and Bear Moxnes to it, because we need all the forces to get to the bottom of this matter. I would like the representative of Moxnes to join the control committee in order to contribute. He has full opportunity to do that. SV will come to the bottom of this matter. We want answers to the unanswered questions. We want to put away party political games to ensure justice for the victims and get the whole truth on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3829	The Nav scandal is the most serious cause Norway has experienced in a long time. She is serious, not only because many tens of people have been wrongfully deprived of their freedom through prison sentences they would never have received. She's serious, not just because many thousands of people have been restricted by a code that shouldn't have been introduced. But it is also serious because there are so many different points – administration, courts, prosecutorial powers, defence lawyers and not least all of us who have our politicians over the last decade – who have failed the most important task of ensuring the legal security of the citizens, and especially those who need a helping hand from the community in difficult situations of life. The seriousness of the matter makes it necessary to go thoroughly into all aspects of the matter. The government and the government must use the time we need, not only to discover what has happened, but also to ensure that something similar can never happen again. Both the government and the Stortinget are doing the big job that is required, with the seriousness and the audacity that needs to be done. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee held its hearing on 9 January. Turning each stone, getting all the information, listening to all the perspectives is a common political responsibility all the parties share. We owe it to all those who are the victims of the scandal. That is precisely why the motion of censure against the Minister of Labour, Mr Raudt, is so unusually weakly fundamental and unmusical. It's time to think about what's going on. There is a time to determine who is asking for the greatest responsibility for what has happened. It's time to quit doing this and move on. That time is not today. The misappropriation we're handling today is no more than taking away the seriousness of the matter. It is an attempt to point a finger in one direction – and only one direction – in a situation where we should focus primarily on correcting errors that have gone beyond the innocent, and prevent such errors from happening again. Unfortunately, it appears as an attempt to knock political coins on a case that affects the whole of political Norway, the whole of Norwegian society. Populism is just as little fun whether it comes from the right side or the left side, or – as in this case – from a politician who is so populistic that he doesn't even want his own party to name the basic ideology they're pronouncing all politics – communism – by name. I am therefore pleased that the Storting has decided to deal quickly with the proposal from Red. It would have been very unfortunate for the further discussion on the issue of mistrust to overshadow the serious content of the matter itself, and not least overshadow human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3842	The President would just like to point out that we should not characterize each other personally, but it is certain the representative will notice that the President is saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3847	What has happened in the Nav case is, as everyone has already stressed, deeply tragic and very serious. Individuals have been affected and punished for errors committed by the public. It is serious, and we have to get to the bottom of this. Individuals who have been affected must have justice. The public has a big and important job ahead of them. The state has to clean up what the government itself owes it to. Therefore, the words expressed by the Council of State in its statement to the Stortinget on 5 November are central. She said it simply, but clearly: «Member States shall settle separately.» I can do those words for mine. It is absolutely necessary for the state to settle separately. I must also say that what has happened not only weakens the trust in Nav, it is also particularly serious that the legitimacy of the justice system itself is becoming harmful. What has been revealed is rocking at the very foundation of our country of law. Obviously, we need to spend time getting to the bottom of this. That is why it is absolutely necessary that we get the external review that is in progress, and I have expectations of the external and independent review committee that is now going to work. This examination must ensure that all facts come to the table, find the reasons why errors could occur without them being detected along the way, and not least must lead to learning. We need to get a basis to ensure that such errors do not happen again. Only then can one conclude, not at a stage in which the investigation work has started. The size now has work going on through what is happening in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Formally, the report of the Council of State is being discussed in that committee, and through the processes that are now under way, the control function of the Grand Duchy will be in swing. It is an extensive work which in turn will be the subject of the plenary session of Stortinget. The matter is large and complex, it extends far back in time – we do not yet know how far – it involves many actors, and there is a great deal of work to be done now. Anyone affected must be able to know that their case will be properly investigated. They need to know that their rights are being respected. We can't go over here with the hare lab. The people who are affected should know that the state, the public, that has messed this up, is now correcting the injustice. Then it's not time to point to individuals and blame, now we have to do this job. The Council of State is now working high to answer all the questions raised by the Control and Constitutional Committee. The ministry facilitates external research, and it works on many fronts at the same time. As the Council of State has said before, everyone who is wronged must be reviled. Now we need to follow up on the necessary measures, whether there is free legal assistance, whether there is a separate compensation system for those affected, whether there are legislative changes, control mechanisms or other things. Now we have to do the job and not call for the resignation of the Council of State on the first and best occasion. The presentation in Stortinget on 5 November showed just how serious the government is following this up. Now everything has to be done to correct faults and injustices, and it has to be clarified why this has happened, before any blame and responsibility is shared out. The Christian People's Party will not support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3869	Powerful persons must also be held accountable. It's been on the day one year since the Hauglies department was first briefed on what we now know as the Nav scandal. Thousands have been affected by our greatest legal scandals in peacetime. The victims must be reviled, the state must provide justice. A thorough examination and treatment is necessary. It is necessary to reveal the responsibilities of previous governments. But the seriousness and extent have increased in the Anniken Hauglies period as the Council of State. After an overall assessment of Hauglies' responsibilities and handling, Red believes that the Stortinget cannot have confidence in the Council of State. Firstly, it is clear that the Council of State itself is responsible for a fatal error in the matter. The ministry instructed Nav not to go through old cases, only to change the practice in the future. In an e-mail from the Department on 22 February, it is clear that political leadership had agreed that: ‘such practices should be submitted for future cases in time; [[...]] Anniken Hauglie actively opposed getting a full overview and rectifying the injustice. Advocate and Social Security Officer Olav Läkreid stated that this ‘testifies to a fundamental lack of understanding of the tasks of the department’, and that the department has ‘completely failed in its task as directorate’. [[NAV]] Secondly, it is clear that the Council of State did not take action when she became familiar with the seriousness of the matter. Nav briefed Hauglie on 30 August that people were likely to have been convicted on the wrong basis. People could be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, as stated in the note given to the department. Then went the big alarm, according to Hauglie. Then two weeks passed before the department met Nav, and then closer to five weeks before the Riksadvokat was briefed – and it's the Riksadvokat who gets people out of prison. Thirdly, it is clear that the insidiousness of the Council of State has had serious consequences. On 17 September, a man was sentenced to prison sentences, on 17 October, another settlement of a conviction based on misappropriation of justice began, and until 31 October, several people remained in prison. This is the definition of murder. Under the Basic Law, § 82, the government has the obligation to provide information: ‘The Government shall communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs.’;» Information has been received which is contrary to what the Council of State said in its statement to the Stortinget on 5 November. Cases were not put to rest, and they did not notify the prosecution authorities when the department became aware of the severity. The lawyer was not notified of the case on 26 September, but only on 16 October. Governments must answer for their fateful misdemeanour, send-rightness and misinformation. We understand that some parties want more time to take a stand, but out there among people, patience is at the end. They see how long it's been. They see how much is already clear. They see that state councils have had to go too much less than this before. If people are disappointed that other parties do not support Rødt's proposals, I understand that, because with what we know about the scandal as of today – what should be for suspicion? So someone says that the proposal can weaken the pressure on the government. In that case, it is due to the parties voting against. We're doing this because it's the right thing to do, and we're not going to give in to the matter after the vote tonight. I am promoting this Red's motion of censure against the Council of State, Mr Hauglie.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3900	That means that there is a debate on matter. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3912	The size is then ready to go to voting, and we start by voting on the remaining cases – the matter no. 7-10 – on agenda No 22 from Tuesday 26 November 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e3924	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Prop. 129 L Changes to the Swedish Social Security Act (Requirements for residence and residence in Norway for the right to a spouse's and children's allowance, sent back to the government.» [[2018–2019]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider promoting a new case after the reasons for the legal scandal with the incorrect interpretation of EEA law have been identified and solutions for making the legislation more accessible have been assessed.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4081	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4095	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4100	It's corrected. Then there are 53 votes in favour and 49 votes against the Committee's position, which has been approved. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4116	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4147	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in conjunction with the working group on the financing of maternity care, to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a financing scheme for municipal landladys ensuring that municipalities do not lose money on using municipal landladys instead of permanent residents in the follow-up to pregnant women.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4188	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1–7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be drawn up to look at the whole of the food supply and how best to ensure quality and safe maternity, maternity and maternity care. The investigation must address in particular the proximity of food supply, quality and staffing at the maternity and post-natal follow-up services, the funding system for midwives and the transitions between the specialist health service and the community health service.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a basic principle for maternity care that families have to be guaranteed a close and accessible high-quality food supply, irrespective of their place of residence, and ensure that health care establishments govern accordingly.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks whether the reinforced feeding room, as mentioned in St.meld. No 12 A happy event, to a greater extent, can be used than today.’ [[2008-2009]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case to provide framework funding for maternity care, so that quality is premiered and that adequate staffing is ensured as an emergency offer.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government immediately to ensure that pregnant women entitled to accompanying services receive it by ensuring that health businesses have the necessary agreements with midwives in place and by extending the right to pay at tariff.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a new national supervision of the country’s food departments is carried out.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of the manning situation at the birthplace of the country in order to ensure that the manning is good enough for each woman to have access to one-to-one care from the midwife during the active part of the birth.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4245	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Health Nord RHF extends the mandate of the Helgelands Hospital 2025, so that the mandate also includes an investigation of a hospital structure with two local hospitals with full emergency functions and up to two district medical centres. Hospitals must have at least daily emergency preparedness, emergency surgery, anaesthesia and access to radiology and laboratory services, as well as the maternity ward.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4271	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that there is a comprehensive prehospital service plan in the various options outlined for the structure and location of the Helgelands Hospital 2025 and that the contents of district medical centres are defined before a decision is taken in the case.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4298	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4310	We then go over to vote on the matter on today's map. The President will first vote on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4322	This case is a proposal from Mr Björn Moxnes on the Nav scandal and mistrust of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Hauglie. The proposal from the Bears of Moxnes reads: ‘Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Anniken Hauglie does not have the confidence of the Stortinge.’ As this is a motion of censure, voting will be done on roll call. The propeller will start with agent no. 4 from Troms County.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4360	The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Finance of the Government's proposals for the State Budget and of the national budget for 2020 be annexed to the minutes of the Stockholm meeting on 7 October 2019. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4373	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 8-13, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 14-17, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 18-19 and 21-22, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 23 and 24, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 24, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that children’s rights are restored as a universal benefit by ensuring that municipalities keep the whole of child’s rights out of the calculation of social welfare benefits and to provide compensation for this in the revised national budget for 2020.’» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4410	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4681	There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal sounds. ‘The government requests the acquisition of zero-emission cars that meet the safety requirements of the Councils’ car service and in the long term replace all fossil cars with zero-emission cars’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4699	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requires the government to reverse the imposition of the user charge for biofuels outside the placing on the market’.» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4716	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a committed, sectorial climate budget and climate accounting in line with the Climate Act, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2021, with open and verifiable sources. The climate budget shall set up an annual cut in order to achieve the 2030 target.’.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e4733	There is a vote on proposal No. 18. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5004	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for high deforestation risk biofuels not to be counted in the achievement of the biofuel placing on the market’.» The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5021	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new and more social model of municipal property tax based on the same proceeds potential, the equivalency of the properties, mandatory bottom deductions and social protection schemes such as deferred tax for ownership transfer.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5039	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate possible compensation schemes, including differentiated rates, for air passenger charges for the North Norway short-haul network.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5056	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5327	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requires the government to continue the tax exemption for biofuels beyond the placing on the market requirement.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5344	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue the distribution of grants to voluntary centres according to Table C-k — matters with a specific breakdown for municipalities’. The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5362	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a legal case for the Storting to lift the ban on the keeping of fur animals in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5377	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Nine and ten from the Center Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a communication on charging policy that addresses, inter alia, the social and geographical distribution impact of different charges.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a climate fund for agriculture using a model from the forest fund.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5401	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5672	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 5 and 7 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that no tax exemption is granted for biofuels with a high deforestation risk, whether inside or outside the placing on the market.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of an investigation into the consequences of the imposition of full user charge on all liquid biofuels, in consultation with users and suppliers. Such an investigation should also include a proposal for a long-term plan for the charging of alternative fuels in order to ensure the desired predictability.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to prepare a climate accounting for all state activities from 2020 – including scope 3 from 2021.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5701	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to resume dialogue and negotiations with business transport for the establishment and establishment of a CO 2 fund for business transport.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5722	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government not to impose a full user charge on all liquid biofuels from 2020, so that the exemption for biodiesel traded outside the placing on the market is maintained until further notice.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5739	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose to wind up the system of neutral VAT in health establishments in the context of the State budget for 2021.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e5756	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e6297	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-27.ana.ud276e6311	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
