ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e47	The representatives Eirik Sivertsen and Willfred Nordlund, who have our permit, have taken the seat again. From the summons the alternate of Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, there is an application for a waiver to meet under the representative of Une Bastholm's leave, due to illness. There is an application from the Central Party Group for a permit for the representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik from 12 March to 14 March to attend the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The applications will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period as follows: For Oslo: Hulda Holtvedt March 7th and until further notice For Akershus County: Martha Tärud 12-14. March
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e93	Hulda Holtvedt is present and wants to take a seat. The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e100	On behalf of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tore Hagebakken, Tuva Moflag, Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce the vulnerability of drug shortages.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e105	The representative, Hulda Holtvedt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e110	On behalf of the Greens and myself, I would like to make a proposal to reduce the pressure on the body and beauty of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e115	The representative, Linda Hofstad Helleland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e120	Then I have a historical proposal to make on behalf of the four government parties. It is a joy on behalf of the great-great-representatives Kristin Örmen Johnsen, Tage Pettersen, Morten Wold, Silje Hämdal, Grunde Almeland, Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius and myself to propose to the criminal prosecution of those who earn money on sports performances as a result of doping, and to make demands for changes in international sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e125	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will also put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e131	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on increased fines for illegal fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e136	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e154	The President will suggest that the speaking time is limited to 5 minutes for each batch group and that there are no repetitions. In addition, the President will propose that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The presidency of the Great Britain has presented the innermost. 163 S for 2018-2019 on the representative proposal of the Depositary Representative Per Espen Stoknes, cf. Document 8:59 S for 2018-2019, on the update of guidelines for the use of grants from the Storting to large-scale groups and representatives. The draft representative shall submit the following proposals: ‘The Presidency is invited to submit a proposal updating the Storting guidelines on the use of the Storting grant to large-scale groups and independent representatives. The new guidelines shall include a requirement of economic transparency and the use of grants and transparency guidelines for accounting equivalent to other uses of public funds.’;» There are currently clear guidelines on how to use the grants. The guidelines state that the grants to the groups are granted in order to give political and administrative support to the representatives to perform their responsibilities. Accounts are required to be kept and sent to the Presidency. The accounts are published openly on the Storting website, so that the public can see what the money is spent on. The accounts are audited by a State-authorised auditor and the audit framework is the Accounting Act, the Tax Act, the Accounting Act and the Stortingen Guidelines for the Use of Grants to Batch Groups. I think it is necessary to mention this specifically because the media have given the impression that there is no control over the use of the funds. The fact that there is a public and open debate on group grants is an important control mechanism. The Presidency is committed to ensuring that citizens have confidence in the management of the Stortingen funds and it is essential that the Stortingen's own grant scheme is set up in such a way as to maintain confidence. The Presidency therefore decided at the very beginning of December 2018, before the Green Party promoted its proposal for a representative, to launch an overall review of the Group grant and to assess the need for changes to the scheme. The review shall assess, overall, whether there is a reasonable correlation between the size of the group grant and the purpose of the grant. The review shall consider relevant aspects relating to the size and composition of the group grant, the distribution between the batch groups, transparency and control. It shall also be assessed whether there is a need for clearer guidance in areas where there may be confusion today. On this basis, the Presidency will assess the need for changes to the facility of the grant scheme and the guidelines for its use and, where appropriate, make proposals for changes to the decision-making process. The Presidency will not conclude in advance on the need for any changes. The Presidency also assumes that the Secretariats of the Majority Groups and the Council of Users and, where appropriate, other relevant disciplines are involved in the investigation work to be carried out. The Presidency will also discuss the publisher of amendments with the party groups before considering a final decision-making case by the end of 2019. It is important for me to stress that the presidency provides for a broader review of the Group grant than is proposed in the Per Espen Stoknes proposal. The Presidency will therefore, in the light of the work already under way, propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e182	This matter concerns the confidence of voters in the national Parliament. In the last five years, the size has granted 862 million to individual party groups. kr. At the same time, money use is protected from the same transparency requirement as for the public sector and several other public money-funded businesses. This has led to considerable public debate and criticism. The Greens, Reds, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left have provided insight into how the big groups spend their money. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Right and the Progress Party refuse to provide the same detailed transparency as imposed on the entire public sector and organisations, such as the Norwegian Sports Association, which are also financed by public money. The Norwegian Sports Association has had to present detailed annexes showing how they have spent money allocated from public budgets. This is welcome for the Greens. The parties The Progress Party, the Right and the Workers' Party have previously required full transparency in how the Sports Association spent public money. Then it's both disrespectful and arrogant to those who pay taxes, that they won't practice the same transparency themselves. In order to make it visible to the voters that the Stortinget has understood the criticism of the lack of transparency in the field of money use, the Green Party therefore proposes that the guidelines for the use of grants for economies of scale be updated with demands for economic transparency. We note with disappointment that the parties to the presidency will not decide that there should in principle be the same transparency requirements as in the public sector. We fully support a comprehensive review of the group grant, as the presidency has adopted, but as the review mandate is formulated, it is totally non-binding and contains nothing specific about economic transparency. Nor does the mandate given by the Presidency say anything about when the review will be completed, or whether the Grand Duchy will at all deal with the review of the Presidency. It is a fact that the presidency is controlled by the same parties that do not want more transparency, and we are therefore negative to a treatment that in practice means a closed process about the need for transparency. We therefore believe that the review must be given a much tighter order, and that the Storting must ask the Presidency to bring forward a case in which they explain the review and propose changes, or justify why they do not want changes. It will ensure that we have an open debate on transparency. Therefore, on behalf of the Green and Red Environmental Party, I am promoting five proposals that tighten up the mandate for the review. Firstly, it shall be taken into account that there is a need for more transparency in the use of funds by the batches and a proposal to that effect shall be made to the Stortinget in 2019. We also propose that the review should seek best practices on transparency from other parliaments and consult experts and organisations specialising in economic transparency and transparency in parliaments. Norway is a member of the Open Government Partnership, and we suggest that the Stortinget initiate an active dialogue in which we can show greater transparency. It is necessary for the parties to open their accounts, but as the youngest parliamentary leader in history, I would also like to say that it is necessary for the politicians of the Stortinget to open their eyes and ears. Here, Norwegian politicians sit and discuss issues that are not really important, while people are already on the run from climate change. Climate policy led by politicians in this process is an unparalleled wave of Norwegian political history, and if the majority of the population is serious about taking responsibility, they need to step up and take drastic action to limit global warming. If not, today's big-time representatives will be replaced when thousands of climate strikers get a vote in 10 years' time. I therefore take up our proposals for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e197	The representative, Hulda Holtvedt, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. The President would say that "flop" is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e204	Let me start by saying that the subsidies to the party groups that we get here are an important part of democracy, quite simply, and a central way to make democracy and the various parties work. It is very important that we maintain it and that we also maintain the function of opposition parties. Nevertheless, it is clear that we – and I think there is a broad consensus here – depend on the confidence of the population, trust that we manage the subsidies we receive in a good way. For many years SV has worked in different ways for more transparency related to Stortinget and it worked as we do here, and I want to say that we are pleased with the job that the presidency is now doing in reviewing the regulations and practices relating to grants. In this debate and in the current cases of grants, there have been different practices between the groups in terms of transparency of accounts. SV has chosen to be open and has made our accounts visible in the media, and we have also encouraged other parties in the media to do the same. In line with that and in line with the history that SV has when it's going to work for transparency, we're going to support the proposals made by the Green and Red Environmental Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e213	The centre party considers it necessary and appropriate that the Presidency today propose to set up a sample which is subject to guidelines for the use and size of the group grants, as well as for the arrangements and transparency. It's important, it's good, it's good work going on. It may be necessary to review some parts to see whether the size of the group grants related to the size of the different sizes of the Stortinge group is in proportion to each other. I guess we also have to admit that the issue of building up equity is a question that we have to take seriously. We also need to address the serious question of transparency requirements. As the president pointed out, there is already a great deal of transparency from the various groups involved in accounting for the different years. The centre party has also recorded some elements of openness that we hope the presidency will take with it in the selection work that one is about to go through. The centre party does not seem to be the basis for pre-conclusions in these cases. We think it is important that the work is now carried out, and we trust that it will be done thoroughly. I also have to say that there is no reason to doubt the work that is being done – whether it is being done or when it is being carried out. Naturally, we all expect a president to carry out and complete this work and also to make the necessary decisions relating to the matter. The Center Party has every confidence in that. With regard to the Greens' proposals, the Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European This may make sense, so that we get a certain overview of the state of affairs in other parliaments as regards both the size of group grants, the funding of the different groups and transparency issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e222	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e238	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e247	I agree to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e252	I'll try to be brief, but it probably won't be as short as the contribution to the President-in-Office. We have become acquainted through the media with several women who have suffered serious injuries during childbirth — women who still live with pain many years after birth, women who have fallen ill, and women who live in severe financial difficulties. The NRK has targeted several of the stories. A woman was written out of the hospital after she was born, with an end-arm slit, a gangrene, clinical signs of fractures of the ribs, hip joint irritation, and refurbished morcoach residues. Today, this woman has chronic pelvic joint syndrome, with walking difficulties and impaired stability and back, stomach and pelvic coordination. But despite the serious damage and the extent, the woman has not been compensated. This woman, together with many others, is included in the statistics where 72 pst. have been refused by women who have applied for compensation for serious birth defects. You could ask yourself why. The answer is that because the women's great damage is to count as known complications, a known risk, they do not qualify for compensation. The law states that compensation can be provided if the damage is particularly large or particularly unexpected, and that the damage is outside the patient’s risk acceptance. I fundamentally disagree that becoming lazy or getting permanent, extensive injuries after birth is to be regarded as a known risk to ladies. The Labour Party believes that the system and the law must be changed. The current patient injury regime includes the primary harm caused by the birth aid. I must point out that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee contradicts itself, and the parties of government follow up the same lack of argument in the vote. They write: ‘If this assumption is removed, everyone who is seriously ill or injured will, in the utmost consequence, be entitled to damages to patients.’ However, I am sure that both the representatives of the government parties on the Stortinget and the Minister for Health are aware that women today can be compensated for birth defects through the exemption rule in the Patient Damage Act. The problem is that the list is too high. A judgment in the Supreme Court in 1998, which dismissed a woman with a foreign intestine claim for compensation, has led to a practice whereby the law paragraph is almost non-applied. Extensive birth defects cannot be regarded as an inherent risk for women to accept. It is unfair and unfair that women are not compensated on the basis of refusal on the grounds that the risk has to be accepted. For the Workers' Party, it is secondary to the law to which it is attached, whether it is compensation, or whether it is another form of financial compensation. The most important thing is that women who get serious injuries after birth get the compensation they should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e272	Would the representative like to make proposals where the Labour Party is involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e277	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e282	The representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e287	Women’s health is an important focus area for health policy priorities. In this case, there is a joint committee which supports the intention of the proposers. Of course, the fact that society has to endure women who experience serious complications during birth is a matter of course. On a general basis, Norway has good public welfare arrangements. Let's not help scare pregnant women unnecessarily. Today, women are entitled to compensation in the event of serious injuries in connection with birth under the provision that it comes from mistreatment. If this provision is removed, it would, in the strictest sense, lead to the right for all persons suffering from serious illness or injury to receive compensation for the injury suffered. This is not the purpose of the patient injury mechanism. In the recently adopted Granavolden platform, the four government parties have been asked to give a lift to the earthworm. We want sufficient midwifery capacity throughout the country. The platform also shows that the government will ensure that Norway will train several midwives. There should be a healthy and safe supply of food in both small and large hospitals. Under this government, midwifery has an extra 46.2 p.m., and on 1 January last year the law was also introduced for midwifery competence in the municipalities. Competence enhancement is essential to avoid just harm to women during birth, and that changes are made in the birthplace service, is very good. Such services are required to be developed over time, and they are required to be adapted to local circumstances. We also need to make sure that the changes are improved, and that we have a service that the birthing are happy with. They should feel safe, and they should feel well cared for, both before, during and after birth. There are few places in the world where birth is as safe as in Norway. There is no reason why we should scare pregnant women unnecessarily. Of course, we have to work to make the provision of food and maternity care even better than today, even if our maternity care today is in the middle of the world. No women shall be afraid to give birth in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e302	Tomorrow is March 8th and Women's Day. Today we heard in the news that according to the SSB, 55 100 children were born in Norway last year, which is the lowest fertility rate ever measured in Norway. In these days, there is a strong case at the Women's Clinic in Bergen, where midwives and nurses warn of irresponsible operations, and in the evening post yesterday there was an interesting chronicle of Gro Nylander, where she writes about an old saying that there is not only a child born, a mother is also born. She writes that for a few generations ago, births were dangerous, but in our time it is largely fine, although both pregnancy, birth and breast-feeding can be demanding. But even today, several thousand Norwegian women are affected by complications every year, and according to her, five to six of them die. So I want to warn you against minimizing that some women actually get complications after birth, despite the fact that we have a good birth care. Today, the Storting will vote for a proposal to ensure that women with serious birth defects are entitled to compensation. The Government Party argues that if one opens to compensation in the event of birth injuries, one opens at the same time so that all other patients who are injured or ill for various reasons must also be entitled to compensation. That's not right, because we're asking for the exception rule in the patient injury law to be used for these women. We think that extensive birth injuries are a risk women should not accept and bear on their own. We found it unthinkable that women should not be able to qualify for compensation or compensation in the event of birth injuries if there is no obvious failure to provide health care. Several women have stood up, and we know that it leads to disability and great harm later in life. We know that 5,000 women have applied for replacement in the last ten years, and that 70 pst. has been refused. And when the government party and the state council argue that extensive damage after birth, such as large and debilitating pelvic plagues, outstretched intestines, etc., cannot be seen as a particularly large or unexpected damage, I think it is incomprehensible. The government party doesn't even think that one can use the exception rule in the patient injury law for these women. The rule of exception may be applied in spite of the appropriate treatment being given, and it may be used when an injury is particularly large and unexpected and cannot be considered to be a risk to the patient. I can't believe that the damage we're talking about here shouldn't go under that rule. It has been shown that a Supreme Court judgment has created a practice that, according to lawyer Christian Lundin, who has extensive experience in claims after birth injuries, has given leadership, so that the rule of exception is virtually non-applied, and that the threshold is too high to apply the exception rule in the Patient Damage Act. We believe that the Storting should consider clarifying the legislation with the exceptions or otherwise clarifying how this can be done, so that serious birth defects can also give rise to the right to compensation. If the government council or the government party thinks that this should be reflected in another legislation, we write in the setting that we are of course open to, but that we want to correct the uri-mal that Norwegian women are subjected to. And to end where I started, if more children are to be born in Norway, we don't have to ease all the risk on women alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e321	Last June, we were able to read about Vibeke Sætherskar, who had to fight for 11 years before she was compensated for the serious damage she suffered during birth. In her case, the district court finally concluded that the damage could have been avoided by another action. Therefore, she qualified finally for the replacement of patients. But not all birth defects are due to mistreatment. Birth itself is a risk, and we know that. That is why I stood here yesterday and asked the Council of State what he would do to ensure a good enough maternity care. A good maternity care would suggest that there is one-to-one follow-up in the maternity wards. We need that in several cases today. What we have today is the case of Health Bergen, where the staff at the Women's Clinic is so low that employees send a message of concern to the County Board. Our capable midwives save lives every day and reduce harm. Then we must listen when they are as worried as we hear that they are now. A good maternity care would mean that birthplaces have a short journey to the birthplaces. It would minimize risk. Then it is worrying that the government is planning to lay down another four maternity wards and further increase the distance to the hospital. It's not a terror propaganda when the opposition mentions it, or when women's organisations otherwise do it. A good maternity care would mean that birthers who have to be transported in ambulances are followed by midwife. We don't have that today. In other words, it's a while until we have the level of maternity care that we could have had. I get the impression that the government parties and the government council believe that birth care is good enough, but I know that we can do better. In any case, giving birth will always be a risk, and so the government believes that it is reasonable for the woman to carry alone. That doesn't mean the opposition. That is why today, together with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, we are promoting proposals to ensure the right to compensation in the event of extensive birth defects, and that should only be lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e334	It is important for society to follow up patients who are injured in a good way. It also applies to women who are seriously injured during birth. I think we all get affected when we hear the women tell their stories that what was supposed to be a birth that most people see as something that is just going to bring good, has such serious and long-lasting consequences for the woman. At the same time, it is also important to maintain the framework set by the Storting for the right to compensation under the Patient Injury Act. Patients are entitled to compensation for treatment-related damage. Of course, that right also applies to women who have given birth. But this applies primarily when a failure has occurred. If this assumption is removed, all those who suffer a serious injury or disease will, in the utmost consequence, be entitled to damages to patients. Such a solution is quite different from what is the purpose of the Patient Damage Act, and it will have enormous economic consequences and that we are spending the money on payments of large claims instead of, for example. to improve patient provision. It may seem that the proposers believe that such a derogation should nevertheless be possible for pregnant women, as ‘there will always be risks at birth’. A solution in which postnatal injury should always give entitlement to compensation will, in my opinion, not be reasonable, set up against other patient groups. There are many people who, for different reasons, get sick or suffer harm. The patient injury regime may not be extended to cover all risks of injury. Like the Committee, I would like to stress that we have a good public health service and good welfare system to ensure that those who need help get it. Total rupture during childbirth is a serious condition that can cause extensive plagues. Fortunately, the number of birthers who experience this has declined in recent years, thanks to skilled midwives and doctors who have introduced new methods of birth support. According to maternity care specialists, it is not possible to avoid all harm, even if the birth aid is better. Many also have good function through surgery or other treatment. Hospitals are responsible for providing this type of help to all women who need it. In my opinion, an extension of the Patient Damage Act will not be the way to take care of women who are severely injured during childbirth. The most important thing is to continue to strengthen the offer, both before and during birth and, where appropriate, in the event of postnatal injury.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e353	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is extremely important to ensure that you have good maternity care, but it should not be confused with the matter we are discussing today. What we are discussing today are the issues where things are going too much even if the apparatus may not have done what they were supposed to do. And sometimes it goes straight away even though everyone's done everything right. The Council of State keeps in line that it has major consequences if the assumption that there must have been a failure in patient treatment is removed — despite the fact that today we have this derogation. Then I wonder: Does the Council of State think that the exemption rule – and the law as a whole – works optimally, as it should, when we see that 72 pst. by the women seeking compensation for serious birth defects not being compensated? Does the Council of State believe that these women must accept the risk instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e362	When a person does not receive compensation, it is largely due to the fact that the cause of the injury is not the patient’s treatment. The exemption system is also very clear that the injury, although not directly related to patient treatment, should be both serious and unexpected – not serious or unexpected, but serious and unexpected. That's what the Stortinge said. Then it is the patient compensation system and the court that ultimately makes the interpretation of the law in each case, which the representative Bjørnebeck-Waaagen is aware of. Removing an ‘unexpected’, as I said in my post, will also be very many other patients who get a serious disease that is not due to the patient treatment, and it has great consequences, which can then be compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e371	I hear the Council of State continues on that line that we can't have our own rules for any patient groups, as he said from the pulpit. The patient groups we are discussing here are the patients group ‘man’ and the patients group ‘women’. We can't have our own rules for birthing women, because it'll be very unfair for non-born men. I can't quite understand this. I'd like to try to see the whole picture. Perhaps the Council of State can help me and explain why it is so unfair that birthing women should be entitled to compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e376	No, the law doesn't distinguish between men and women. What the law distinguishes between, the main distinction, which the representative is also aware of, is whether the injury is due to patient treatment or not. We have an exception system, but the exemption system also has two very clear conditions. One is that the damage is serious, and there is no doubt that is the case in very many of these cases. The second condition is that the damage is unexpected. For example, in cases where a person does not receive compensation, this is the case. because the damage is not unexpected. There is something that very many – both male and female patients – experience today, and also experience as unreasonable because they have received treatment that gives them a risk of harm, and they get it. They then feel that it is unreasonable that they will not be compensated. This applies to both men and women.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e383	There is, of course, a difference between regular patient treatment and a birth, because a patient treatment can actually largely – at least occasionally – opt out, but a birth is more difficult to choose from. Therefore, this is a special situation, and I'm responding to a comparison of this with all other medical care, when it comes to giving birth and giving birth to a child. I have heard what the Council of State has said about that rule of exception and the requirement that the damage should be both particularly large and unexpected. What I ask myself then, is whether the Council of State thinks that all the complications we've heard about, serious complications after birth – yes, even women who die after birth – are an expected complication after birth, so one should understand the law today. I would like the Council of State to find out more about what he means by «unexpected» complication at birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e390	It is quite right that patients in Norway are allowed to choose to say no to treatment, but you get a serious heart disease or cancer that you are likely to die of, of course, that choice appears to be relatively theoretical. So the representative knows just as well as I do that part of the treatments that we like. offer cardiac patients in Norway, with a certain percentage of the risk of the treatment causing a harm to the patient, regardless of whether the patient is a woman or a man. If the patient suffers injury as a result of treatment, but where there is a risk of treatment being considered, the patient is not compensated. A lot of patients experience it as completely unreasonable, because some of the damage is also serious. The representative also knows as well as I do that patients who want to get pregnant, sometimes also get clear information about the increased risk of their pregnancy, because it is also individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e397	I hear what the council explains about other patient treatments, but it's now that at birth there are two parents, and it's the one parent left here with the whole risk. That's also what makes this a little bit special. But the Council of State did not respond to what he actually sees in terms of what is stated in the rule of exception – particularly large and unexpected. Is all birth defined by the rule of exception because all complications that occur at birth, serious complications that can cause disability – it can also happen death – are expected complications after birth? Is the Council satisfied that we have a law that adds to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e404	No, that's what's being evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, it is quite clear that birth defects are not defined by either the main purpose of the law or the exemption system. So birth defects can also be assessed according to the exemption scheme, but birth defects must, in line with other injuries, meet the same criteria. The representative then also knows that there will be large individual differences, so it has to be assessed in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e409	I have one last question, which goes on as some other representatives have mentioned, about how a preventer seriously complications, and then the presence of a midwife is very important. The Council of State has itself required healthcare professionals to have a midwife with them at the active stage of birth as early as possible and fully until birth. Then, in answer to written questions to the Stortinget, the Council of State has said that the ministry today does not have an overview of the number of births that have been met. With the discussion that takes place, for example: at the Women's Clinic in Bergen, I thought this question was also relevant in connection with this case, as this is what the Council of State refers to is the solution. Will the council now make sure that he gets these numbers on the table, if women get one-to-one care at birth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e414	This is reported on, even if someone the representative has not a number. Since this is a demand from me, that you work to achieve this goal, it is reported on. The thing is, if we look at the results of what has happened in recent years, the quality of Norwegian maternity care is getting better and better. When we ask the women, we have seen that they have become increasingly satisfied with the offer. If we look at the midwifery department, not least in the municipalities, we have seen a sharp increase in the midwifery work in the municipalities since I took responsibility for the health care in Norway. At the same time, when the number of births has fallen quite considerably, the soil murder rate per 10,000 births has increased by about 70 p.m. So that's all reason to say that the offer has become better for women who are born year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e420	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e427	I really didn't intend to make any comments in this debate, but I reacted to the description of "screaming" women. That, I think, was a strange language usage in this case. Many women are afraid to give birth in the first place. That's often what you go and worry about as it approaches – what can happen, what can happen during birth – and I don't think any politicians here drive and scare women by taking up this proposal. What on the contrary is frightening, is that one minimizes it and does not see that this is a hole in the law and in the rights of women, in which we should rectify. That "shrinking" seems to me to belong somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e432	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e448	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e457	I'm going to use a little bit more speaking time now. The Committee unanimously supports the intention of the proposal to ensure a better quality of care for the elderly. Older people must be able to expect services of equal quality in home and hospital care wherever they live. The provision of care to the elderly in Norwegian municipalities needs to be diverse and adapted to the different needs of the elderly. But we see – and acknowledge – that the differences between municipalities in this country are large. For this reason, the government has put forward a quality reform, Life throughout its life, a quality reform aimed at ensuring better food and meals, health care, seamless services, activity and community. Grant schemes will be put in place when this reform is launched. Reform work has only begun to this extent. Local authorities have now been tasked with making local adjustments to this quality reform, and government parties look forward to further work. It is important to clarify that the provision of dental care is also a task for municipalities and county councils to take seriously. We see too much that the county councils are not good enough to follow up the dental provision for the elderly in the municipalities, and I wonder if there may be some close shots in the cooperation between the municipalities and county councils, which must definitely be taken seriously locally. Government parties have increased the grant for the establishment and renovation of new nursing homes. It's important. There is an increased grant for day-time activities for residents with dementia – a proposal we want to legislate. We have set up a pilot project on state-funded care for the elderly, which has had great success in the municipalities that have been part of the scheme. This scheme is now being continued in time and six new municipalities will be included in the experiment. I want to use the opportunity to also highlight free user choice. Free choice of use is important in order to improve the local quality of care for the elderly. Drawing a parallel to the process around kindergartens, it can be seen that when you release commercial and municipal actors into healthy competition, the quality and satisfaction of the services offered to everyone increases. I therefore think it is a pity to see how the Municipality of Oslo, with the Workers' Party at the head, wants to reverse free user choice and make it worse and more difficult for private operators to provide services, because the main thing is that the elderly are given the freedom of choice, have the opportunity to get a good offer, and it is less important who delivers the offer. We have recently seen that the Municipality of Oslo, as well as increasing the quality with greater use of private operators, could have saved the population for 440 million. NOK – the money they could have spent on further strengthening the care of the elderly. But instead, the Labour Party in Oslo has chosen to wear the ideological skyscrapers and will deprive the elderly of the opportunity to choose more for themselves. Government parties have taken important steps to ensure better quality of care for the elderly. The lifelong reform work on Life has just begun. We look forward to the further work. We have a big promise with state-funded care for the elderly, which we record that the Workers' Party in particular is very much in favour of, but here on the Stortinget is very opposed. By that we believe that we have taken important steps. We're not on target, but we've come a long way. We therefore do not see any need to support the proposals made by the proposers in this matter, but look forward to discussing further the quality of the care of the elderly locally. With that, I will raise the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e476	Elder care is a municipal responsibility, and many municipalities do a very good job of creating good offers for their inhabitants. The rapporteur, Elin Gran Weggesrud, tells me about Sandetun's nursing home, which has both pushed at dinner and introduced new serving methods, which allow each resident to adapt the food according to his own needs. The result is that several residents either keep or increase their weight. We have Rälingen, Bodø and Eidsvoll municipalities, which are set on their own kitchens with food production for both infirmaries and residents. We have the rapporteur, Hanne Opdan, and the municipality of Ski, who have invested in a large establishment of day-to-day activities for people with dementia and who have signed a cooperation agreement with the National Association for Public Health on dementia-friendly municipality. We have the municipality of Oslo, which is in close proximity to drug reviews for residents who have long-term facilities in hospitals. The aim of the municipality of Oslo is not the cheapest possible care for the elderly, but the best possible care for the elderly. We have the municipality of Levanger, which is in the front when it comes to weekly medical sessions per resident in a nursing home. Despite all these good examples, this is not a guarantee for the individual older people. Variation between municipalities is too large. Nutrition, medical visits, hospital dental care and waiting time for daily activities are all examples of the same development. On average, the numbers improve, but the variation between the counties and the municipalities is too large. This also applies to waiting time for nursing homes, whether a medical review has been carried out in the last 12 months, the proportion of private rooms with private baths and toilets and help to participate in organisations and activities. Therefore, the Workers' Party considers it necessary to impose requirements on the quality of care in Norwegian municipalities. A standard should be set to help municipalities and counties below the standard to improve the quality of their services. Own intervention teams should follow the quality of care services and provide local authorities with assistance and guidance so that all receive high-quality help and care. Of course, closer organisation of the response teams, including the role of the State, needs to be investigated. As care for the elderly is municipal, there will of course be different ways to solve these problems. The offer is neither equal nor shall it be equal, but it shall be equivalent. Today, the variation is too great for us to say that older people in Norway receive an equivalent offer. Later today, we are examining a national audit report on the very quality of care for the elderly. The National Audit Office points to two important points: the need for better quality objectives in the care of the elderly and more State instruments. The National Audit Office’s report shows the need for the proposal on quality requirements in the care of the elderly precisely in order to obtain better quality indicators and to ensure an equally good supply from Lindesnes to Nordkap. In addition to the proposal we are discussing today, the Labour Party has proposed a number of state instruments: health technology schemes for municipalities, funds for new forms of housing, strengthening national leadership training, competent response teams to increase the quality of care for the elderly and the reintroduction of a genuine cultural offer for the elderly through the cultural spa. We are facing a development of twice as many older people over the next 20 years. Although many are healthy and healthy, many will need health and care services. If we can solve these problems, it's about how we're rigging today. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e491	Then the representative Tuva Moflag has drawn up the proposals from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e496	It has not been long since we debated quality in the care of the elderly in this Chamber, for in the autumn we adopted the Life Reform, which is a quality reform for the elderly. It should ensure that we get good care and a worthy old age, no matter where we live. For most, Norway is a very good country to grow old in. Welfare services are safe and good; older people receive help and support to master both diseases and age-related challenges that arise — for that they do. But unfortunately, we can also see the opposite of some places. It often fails too often on fundamental elements such as food, activity and community, proper health care and the context of service, and precisely these areas are the life span taking hold. Now it's up to the municipalities to make plans for how to follow up this with Life their whole lives. We have committed funds in the 2019 government budget to assist in both the development, implementation and evaluation of the plans. All municipalities are invited to participate in a learning network so that they can share experiences and learn from each other. It is therefore gratifying that even more parties now want to be involved in discussing the quality of care for the elderly, and it is particularly pleasing – many of us, at least – that the proposal suggests work that the government is already doing. Yes, in fact, I am quite proud that the opposition too is so satisfied with the quality work that is already being done, that they today want us to adopt quite a lot of that again. For example: there is already an obligation to review medicinal products in hospitals. We introduced that in 2017. We have already sent to the hearing a proposal on a statutory obligation to provide day-to-day activities for residents with dementia. Nutrition has been part of the patient safety programme in hospitals, hospitals and home services since 2016. One of the main areas of Life throughout life is just food and nutrition. In order to improve care for the elderly, we need to be able to document both what works well, and what works worse, and when we know where the shoe prints, we have far better opportunities to raise standards. Then we also have to have transparency about the results. It makes the quality visible and makes it even easier for municipalities to learn from each other. In this way, we can get good quality across the municipal borders. I therefore hope that this debate marks the transition to a time when the quality of care for the elderly is the most important of all. It's more important than ownership than weekend-free and possibly economic profits. That's what we're now going to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e513	The Central Party supports the intention of the proposal to ensure equivalent health services and to increase the quality of care for the elderly throughout the country, and has measures to strengthen the quality of the municipalities where necessary. It has been said and written in the quality indicator setting that we have some quality indicators in the municipal health service, but that there are very few – and there are far fewer than there are in the specialist services – and that this can be a hub to ensure the quality and patient safety work in the municipalities. What we're skeptical about is whether there's too many quality indicators. One has to be very aware of what kind of quality indicators a set is, because for us there is also a difference between having a quality indicator that helps municipalities, and a quality requirement that is governed by law from Stortinget. We're concerned that if one makes such demands, it might be more important for the municipality that they are above a given value in terms of these quality requirements, where one risks that other areas that may be so important but that cannot be measured and controlled in that way are deprioritised, that one shifts the attention from the quality areas that are important to follow up to the areas where it is possible to measure. We have shown in the setting something that we think is more important than this focus on quality indicators. We point out that ‘good management and adequate resources locally are the most crucial factors for the quality of the municipal care service’. We know that one can have two hospitals in one municipality, which have the same economy, where one has a better system of quality and patient safety and more happy users than the other. It has to do with leadership, and it has to do with local leadership, the one that's closest to the user and the patient. It's unlikely that we're getting good systems that make a good lease that just makes sure that quality improvements are closest to the patient and closest to the user. We write in the setting that we want 'a reform for increased trust and value-based management at all levels of the municipal health and care service, giving professionals in the first-line service trust and responsibility and strengthening value-based management almost to patients and users'. So Norsk Sukepleiarbund has a very interesting hearing opinion on this representative's proposal. They refer to something of the same thing that I've brought up here. They also indicate that there are some local challenges, such as: many part-timers, savings are required and many have different competences added. They have four measures to improve: A documentation tool is needed. A quality management system must be provided. You have to set your community's expectations about what resources and framework conditions actually have to exist. Support for the existing professional and competence environment must be increased. The Health Care Association writes in the hearing opinion that they think this is more important to prioritize than to develop new quality requirements. We have a new debate a little later today on the Riksrevision's examination of accessibility and quality in the care of the elderly. Found there is quite quantifiable. The elderly are given healthcare without being involved – they are not even asking for some places. There is a lack of knowledge of quality. There are challenges to patient safety. It's pretty serious. One also needs more knowledge about the improvement work locally, and so does not have enough knowledge about the capacity. We will come back to this in the next debate, but at least I will now address the proposal on which the Central Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e545	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e550	The quality of care for the elderly varies from municipality to municipality, and the challenges associated with the provision of activity, health care and coordination of health services, dental care and food for the elderly are high. In life, there were many good ideas. We were looking forward to a reform. We were disappointed because we saw the lack of commitment and funding, and that is why I have said in the past that it cannot be called a reform. Therefore, I see why other parties see a need to make proposals to increase the quality of care for the elderly. There are many skilled people working in the care of the elderly. At the same time, there are wide variations in the care given to older people. I would therefore like to say that I support the intention of the Labour Party's proposals to ensure equivalence and increase the quality of care for the elderly, especially when we know that in the years to come, we will have an even greater ageing wave, and the need for good and secure services will increase. At the same time, however, we believe, like the Centre Party, that there are today good quality indicators, and that replacing them with quality requirements can lead to a risk of quality being reduced in important professional areas that are not measured. We need to increase trust, and we need to trust that the employees can do their job. Therefore, SV will work for a trust reform. We also agree with the Center Party on the work of good and local management in all municipal health and care services, and we believe that value-based management must be the focus. Finally, when I address the proposal from SV, I would like to say that the major challenges related to quality in today's elderly care are closely related to staffing. It is a challenge that manning is generally too low to meet needs, and that there is a lack of permanent and full jobs. This applies to nurses, other necessary health professionals and commercial support functions. When the manning is low, it is not possible to obtain the required quality, even with good management or with more demands. We need to secure enough professionals and enough staff because it is ultimately the human and professional resources that are in direct contact with the elderly in everyday life, and it is those who ensure the necessary care. Therefore, SV promotes proposals for an investigation of quality and competence-based recruitment standards in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e561	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e566	I think that this debate will come out very well – and we will continue it afterwards, in the next case. This government is very concerned that older people should have a safe and dignified old age. That is also one of the reasons why this government created my ministerial post, i.e. the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health. We have also worked specifically to increase the capacity, competence and not least the quality of care services in recent years. I am proud to be in a government that has increased the appropriations for the municipalities, not least to enable them to provide good services to older people. We're constantly working on improving services. This is what we do, among other things. by contributing to more and better day care places, more annual work and increased skills of employees. I am glad that we have recently put in place the quality reform for the elderly, Life throughout our lives. This reform, which the Committee is well aware of, shall contribute to raising the quality of services and to facilitating older people to live active, safe and dignified lives. As you know, this reform is based on measures already in place in several municipalities and, as we know, works in practice. These are measures to delay and, in particular, prevent disease development. This is a quality reform aimed at promoting mastering and enhancing competence, and the quality and capacity of health services as a bottom plank. To help municipalities disseminate and share experiences, we have established a national and regional support system. Municipalities are invited to decide on how lifelong solutions can be designed and implemented locally. In this year's budget, it is set at 48 million. I spent a lot of time working both to identify and help the municipalities to see what they are good at, and what they are bad at. Solutions will then be incorporated into their own plans, and then the reform will be implemented. We have notified that the municipalities that change in line with the reform will be prioritised within existing and possibly new earmarked schemes – and note the words earmarked. We'll get back to this in the budgetary context. The government is concerned that patients, relatives and the public should be better informed about the quality of healthcare services. That is why we have introduced several quality indicators for the care sector. We have also taken more steps to ensure better health and care services for patients and users. I thought I could mention some of these: We have presented a national action plan for better diet. Nutrition is also part of the patient safety programme in hospitals, hospitals and home care, and action packages have been developed for this work. From 2017 we have received quality indicators for nutrition and review of medicinal products, and there is an obligation to review medicinal products in hospitals, both on arrival and at least once a year. Parents who stay in a nursing home or receive long-term home care are entitled to free necessary dental care from the county. The government has also consulted on a proposal to legislate an obligation for municipalities to offer day-time activities to residents with dementia. This will enter into force on 1 January 2020. I would like to stress that the Health and Welfare Act obliges the municipalities to ensure that persons staying in the municipality are provided with the necessary health and care services. The same law provides that the service offered or provided is to be sound. This means that services have to maintain satisfactory quality, be provided on time and to an adequate extent. Through the new management regulation, we have made both management improvements and quality improvements, and the municipality is required to plan its activities so that it has an overview of the relevant legislation, guidelines and guides. The municipality shall also have a plan for making this known in the establishment. The purpose of this Regulation is to contribute to professionally sound health and care services, quality improvement and patient and user safety. I am pleased that we have a health surveillance that has the overall professional supervision of the municipal health and care services. Supervision and advice shall contribute to the care of the population’s needs for services, to the proper functioning of services, and to the detection and prevention of failure to provide services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e600	As I was in my post, there will be twice as many older people in Norway in the next 20 years. Many of them are going to be healthy and fast, but many are also going to need help. How we're rigging today will be crucial if we're going to do the problem. The Labour Party believes that a strengthened local economy is part of this solution. In our alternate budget, we had 3.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities than the government had. My question to the Council of State is whether she believes that today's municipal economy provides room for enough employees in the care of the elderly, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e607	Yeah, I think it's room for that. We look at the number of municipalities that have been on the ROBEK list, and those that we are now facing, which are now located in 17 municipalities – if I remember correctly – it is a clear indicator that we have succeeded in improving the economy. In addition, the municipalities have never had as good advice as now, but we also see that rich municipalities, municipalities with profits, municipalities that spend money on the table, etc., do not necessarily provide better care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e612	The Council of State stated that municipalities that are changing in line with Life throughout their lives will be premiered, and then it can be assumed that it is the good municipalities, the ones in front of them, who will also change in line with the reform. How will the Council of State follow up municipalities that do not change in line with the reform and ensure that the inhabitants of those municipalities also receive equivalent services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e617	I think it is a relevant and good question from the representative Moflag. Now it is the way the reform is going to work for five years, first and foremost. We hope that the transformation that this reform is going to achieve will give us just a good knowledge of who it is that is good, and who can't do things. It is also part of the 48 million that are in the current year, where, in cooperation with the KS and the county councillors, we are going to create networks where we are going to enable those municipalities that, at present, either do not have enough knowledge of their citizens or do not have enough competence to make the right choices, to get help to find out together: Who is that who lives in the municipality? Who are the older ones with us? What are we good at, and what are we bad at? We have great faith that such networks will help to lift up also those municipalities that are currently not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e624	However, the municipalities that change in line with the reform are already to be premiered, and I wonder what specific follow-up or sanctions will be given to those municipalities that do not change in line with the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e629	It's too early for me to say. I hope – that is my goal – that all municipalities will be able to take up such a network, that they will help each other in the different municipalities, among other things, to look at the challenges each municipality has to face and find solutions to them. So I want to follow that reform as long as I'm sitting in the place I'm sitting in now, and see that this works well. In terms of earmarked funds, I'm going to say that it's going to give us priority to earmarked funds in the reform, the key -- I think -- is that it goes directly to what we want within the Life Life Reform, rather than that the money, as we see in some municipalities, might disappear into other things that you don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e636	This proposal for a representative is about how to improve the quality of care for the elderly, and that is something that everyone is very concerned about. In the cases that come to treatment later today — the Riksrevision report is also mentioned in the setting in this case — the Riksrevision concludes that ‘patient safety challenges in the care of the elderly are major.’ That seems to me to be a rather serious conclusion from the Riksrevision, and my question is what the Council of State will do to ensure patient safety. I have heard that a reference to the patient safety program, but it was completed in 2018, so I am not so happy to listen. So the government has now delivered a proposal to wind up the reporting system that is in hospital, while a NOU suggested that it be transferred to the municipalities. What does the Council of State do with patient safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e643	Now we're going to have that debate in the next round, but it does a lot. For example, I can. take this with a notification system, as the representative referred to. We have established an obligation and a right to alert. This has not been the case before in the municipalities – it has been the case in hospitals, but not in the municipalities – but relatives have now been given a right to alert directly to the Health Inspectorate, and those who work in the municipalities, in the sector, have similarly been given a duty to notify. Otherwise, patient safety is strongly linked to knowledge, and it is closely related to what the representative himself addressed in his article, management, and these are areas in which we are also very concerned. We have Competence Plan 2020, and there's 1.5 billion. kr used in this area. But I also think that throughout life we will gain even more knowledge about how important management is to ensure patient safety. We also need to be aware that the knowledge that exists on a state-owned basis, about what is good, and what is not so good, needs to be out there, and the municipalities also need to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e650	I very much agree with what the Council says about leadership, and that much of what is the solution – and the challenge – to quality work in the municipalities, is to ensure better organisation, culture and leadership, as close as possible to patients and users. But what we're meeting with, for example. These are individual cases, which are also important for inclusion. The National Auditor asks questions about patient safety. This is a municipal responsibility, but it's also a national responsibility if you can't be sure about patient safety. So, with the measures that the government has now taken, is the Council safe to ensure that patient safety in the care of the elderly is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e657	We've done a lot, and more is going to come. What I think is also important is to make municipal politicians responsible. I have been a municipal politician for 16 years myself. It is important to be made aware of the responsibilities you have, because it is the responsibility of the municipality for the care sector. The funds allocated to this sector come largely from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, which releases the funds. There is also the fact that you are aware of the responsibility you have to follow up older people who live in the municipality. We were concerned about law in the previous question, when it came to management, but also the fact that we from a central level are looking at the fact that the Health Authority can supervise. It is then important that not only is there planned supervision, but that one can also show up unplanned and take the control that will take place. And there I would think that the representative and I very much agree that there are different ways to do this, but the responsibility lies mainly with the municipalities. We've made lots of plans, lots of action and lots of strategies, but the municipalities have to start and do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e667	Then the line chord change is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e685	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e694	I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter. The aim of the study has been to assess whether older people are receiving municipal health and care services in line with the Storting decision and assumptions. The study has also focused on how state instruments have been designed to support local authorities’ efforts to improve services. Norwegian healthcare is organised according to what we call the LEON principle, the lowest effective care level principle. According to the form of interaction introduced in 2012, a greater proportion of patients’ investigations, treatment and follow-up have to be carried out in the primary health service. This means that many older people have their health and care services carried out in municipalities. Over 60 pst. of those granted health and care services, are over 67 years of age. Municipalities have a great deal of freedom to set up services based on local circumstances and priorities, but they have to comply with the requirements of the Stortinget on accessibility and quality. The Health and Welfare Act obliges municipalities to have available health and care services so that those in need of assistance can obtain appropriate services on a timely basis. Decisions on services shall be based on a professional assessment of the individual’s needs, and a high level of emphasis shall be placed on the individual’s views and wishes. The Riksrevision report shows that not everything is as good as we would like in this area. The main findings are: Older people are given health and care services without well-informed needs and wishes. There is a lack of knowledge about the quality of care for the elderly in many places. There are major challenges to patient safety in the care of the elderly. Nor does the State have a good enough overview of the local authorities’ work to ensure proper capacity in the care of the elderly. In the twelve municipalities surveyed by the Riksrevision, three out of ten cases were decided without the user’s wishes being taken into account. In one of four cases, the municipality was not in contact with the user until the decision was taken. It's too bad. The wishes and opinions of the elderly must be taken into account when the decisions are taken. It is not possible to satisfy all wishes, but they must be identified, evaluated and justified. It's about the lives of the elderly and the lives of the elderly. The National Audit Office also points out that there is too little focus on knowledge of consent skills in the care of the elderly. This applies to older people who are unable to care for their own interests. The fact that we live longer leads to more elderly people being diagnosed with dementia. Therefore, consent assessments are important for facilitating the participation and wishes of the elderly and their relatives. The Committee is committed to addressing the areas of improvement identified by the National Audit Office. In terms of overview and planning, municipalities need to improve their analysis and up-to-date plans, so that the dimensioning of care facilities, home services and staffing is proportionate to the needs at all times. We know that there will be a large growth in the number of older people in the years to come. The people have to keep up with this. State authorities must ensure that they have good information on the planning and assess state measures that can help to improve the preparation of municipalities. The supervision of the State is a useful state instrument. Supervision strengthens municipalities and should therefore be used more to improve quality and support the work of municipalities with quality improvements. The Committee considers it alarming and worrying that the study presents major challenges to patient safety in the care of the elderly. These include malnutrition, fall-back injuries and misuse of medicinal products. Here, municipalities must use the tools and measures developed, cf. the patient safety programme also mentioned in the previous case. In particular, risk assessments must be carried out with measures. Quality work is a continuous process and must be on the agenda at all times. The National Audit Office says there is a need for more knowledge about the quality of care for the elderly. More attention needs to be paid to research, knowledge-based practices and the development of good indicators in order to ensure good quality of care services. Fortunately, a lot of good work is also done in many municipalities. The National Audit Office refers to good examples of how improvement work should be managed and carried out. Grimstad municipality and Uppsalmämmet in Oslo has been highlighted in the report. In Grimstad, there has been a focus on using new welfare technologies, and in the Upsaling Home, they have been working on patient safety. Good management and involvement of employees were some of the success criteria in both of these examples. Good management is important in quality work. The Committee feels it is good that the Councils take the findings of the report seriously. We assume that the Council of State and the Ministry follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office. One good tip is to use municipalities that have succeeded in the quality work, as guides and as inspirations for those municipalities that need support and help in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e735	I refer to the introductory part of the rapporteur, which is a good review of the Committee's consideration of a very serious report from the Riksrevision. I would just like to make a few comments on this, precisely on the basis of the findings referred to by the rapporteur, i.e. that older people are allocated health and care services without the needs and wishes of them being properly addressed, that there is a lack of knowledge of the quality of care for the elderly, and that there are major challenges to patient safety in the care of the elderly. As a relative of one of those who is mentioned who is not fully capable of caring for their own interests, I have to say that it is with great concern that I read the report from the National Audit Office, because I am thinking of those who do not have any relatives who can help to maintain their interests. Then are the findings that the Riksrevision has made, so that you can be startled and think of those who cannot take care of their own interests, and perhaps alone without relatives. What assurance do we have that they will receive safe and good treatment in our institutions, in our auxiliaries? That is why there is good reason to stress what the rapporteur said, that it is important here that the Council of State follows up, and that we get better quality assurance systems, but not least that the knowledge from the many examples that things can be done in a good way is transferred from the municipality to the municipality. In that context, I shall conclude by saying – and I am not less frightened by it – what is mentioned in a note that unfortunately is behind only the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. That's what we're saying. ‘Critically, the Government has not come any further with regard to the handling of medicinal products; and the prevention of falls due to the fact that there has been a political focus on them for several years’ time’. It's the municipalities that are the service providers, but now we've got a government council that's going to have this as a special area. Then I assume that action will be taken to ensure that we can also be safe on behalf of those who do not have relatives who can take care of the offer given to the elderly in our institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e759	I would also like to make some comments on this matter. I also refer to the case-speaker, who did the right thing for the committee's comments in an excellent way. We're very much in agreement with the reality description, but as the representative Andersen was also in, there's some area where the opposition goes a little bit further, and SV also has its own comment that we're alone behind. I would like to point out that in 2014, Norway’s national human rights institution presented a report on the treatment of beekeepers in Norwegian hospitals. It was in many ways frightening reading. Their conclusion was that the treatment was hardly in line with the basic human rights of the inhabitants. They had, among other things, Concealed mistreatment, degrading treatment of dwellers, etc., things we simply cannot find acceptable in Norway. Findings from the Riksrevision reveal that there are still serious conditions in Norwegian hospitals and in the home country. Unfortunately, there is nothing new, but the seriousness of a discovery this year after year, means that the Storting should take further action on developments in this sector. As a follow-up to the report of the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, we suggested in 2017 that a full review of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals and in the home country should be carried out. We thought that was right and reasonable – that it was a natural follow-up of the serious findings that the institution had made. But several people don't support that view. This lack of will among the majority of Stortinget to investigate the extent of violations of human rights in the care of the elderly worries me. There are also issues of nutrition in this report, on which the case-speaker was also concerned. In this area too, SV has put forward a number of proposals – proposals for better nutrition in municipalities – without obtaining multiple numbers. An example is the proposal to speed up the launch of the local kitchen in hospitals until 2019. But the government is going to spend another year evaluating how to set up such a move. All of this illustrates a lot of the problem with the message Life: that good intentions are not followed up by means, and that the responsibility for implementing costly measures is pushed over to the municipalities. The national audit report shows that there is a lot of work to do, and I can't see that we're getting closer to a worthwhile situation for the country's elderly, as we're working today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e772	Show me the policy that's being run against the elders, and I'll tell you a little bit about what kind of society you're in. In this way, there is a serious report we are handling here in Stortinget today. When one determines that older people are not taken into account, and that there is little knowledge of the quality of elderly care and major challenges with patient safety, the warning lamp must light up. The report refers to several municipalities that do a good job in the health and care sector. At the same time, it has been established that the State does not have a good enough overview of the work being done by municipalities to ensure the right capacity. In this way, it seems unlikely that the government has been in the last few years, for example. have cut back on investment for the construction of public spaces and sick homes. We in the Center Party believe that everyone should be sure that they will receive the necessary help if the hell fails. The parental care system must be a municipal responsibility financed from the municipal budget, where the tasks must be resolved in cooperation with relatives, volunteers and non-profit actors. The National Audit Office’s report states that quality measurements are currently few good quality indicators. If we look at the hospital sector, we see that there has been a large increase in the number of indicators in recent years. So the question we all have to ask is: are we going to impose even more reporting and counterpoints in the provision of care, or are we going to red tape the sector and get a new trust-based rental where the supply is guided according to the needs and must comply with the intended quality requirements? I think the last thing. It's good for the municipalities to handle the offer, because it's those who know how much help is needed. We do not need detailed control from the state through national guidelines. The report points out that many municipalities do not have sufficient welfare technology. We believe that this will happen, but poor local economy can also lead to investment in this area being less than they should be. Well-being technology solutions can strengthen the demands of each individual to cope with everyday life and to master his or her own situation. This also makes the users and their relatives safer. Welfare technologies can also lead to innovation in health and care services. Keeping an older minister in government won't help if you don't follow up the services. Based on what we've seen so far, there's not much of a result that the government put in place an elderly minister. Nor does it help to show a big message where even those who work in the care sector have no faith in what is said. The Biggest Message Life your whole life, as the government put forward, is such a product. The quality and capacity of elderly care needs to be improved, and better consistency between service responsibilities and the provision of services needs to be ensured. Demographic trends and the fact that several older people are ill require increased capacity both in the home, in the hospital and in other services provided to this group. There is still a bad interaction between hospitals and the community health service, and there are too many transfers and re-introductions of patients. The National Audit Office states that there are major challenges to patient security, but it doesn't seem to be a problem here either. They will not expand the notification system. We think it would be an extra security that users, relatives and associates had had a channel where they could anonymously come with notice. So this isn't what we're saying. At the same time, we are convinced that having municipal care for the elderly is what will eventually lead to the whole country. The centre party will have the most control over the municipalities, not in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e791	I should have liked to have taken a line on the representative Bjørke. It is clear that he has not been involved in what has happened in 2018, and he is also very clear that the only right thing is to continue to have municipal governance on everything that has to do with the care of the elderly. Here's something that's not completely right. As Minister of Older People and Public Health, I am concerned that older people should have a safe and dignified old age. This means, among other things: that they have access to quality health and care services and that they are to be met with respect. Availability and quality are important objectives of care for the elderly. The elderly shall be provided with appropriate services on an adequate scale and not least in due time. When decisions on services are taken, they shall be based on a professional assessment of the individual’s needs. Municipalities should pay great attention to what the older person himself thinks. I'm glad the Riksrevision has chosen to look at just these themes. The report describes a number of important issues that have a significant impact on accessibility and, in particular, on the quality of health and care services in municipalities. We need more knowledge about how the services of older people actually work. The National Audit Office’s report and recommendations are therefore an important contribution to this. With more knowledge and understanding, we have a good starting point for making those improvements. The government is well in the process of addressing the challenges pointed out by the National Audit Office. Last year we presented a quality reform for the elderly, Life throughout our lives. Here we offer good examples from Norwegian municipalities, among others. in the case of quality work. We've seen that when the good examples are put into system, they can easily spread to other municipalities. There's a lot of good work going on in several municipalities, and with Life for the rest of your life it's easier to share the good solutions. All municipalities are invited to participate in learning networks where they can share experiences and be inspired by each other. Municipalities are encouraged to decide how lifelong solutions can be designed and implemented locally. Thereafter, they shall incorporate the solutions into their normal quality improvement work and implement the reform. This is a reform that has just started, I guess we have eight to nine weeks of this reform. I'm following it and I think it's very exciting to see what the municipalities are doing. The number of older people will increase sharply in the years to come. There's a big task here for the municipalities. On the part of the government, we support measures described both in Care 2020 and not least in Competence Plan 2020. The National Audit Office points out that several municipalities appear to need more analysis of the future need for health and care services. They also need plans for how municipalities should ensure proper service capacity. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is currently working with the Statistical Central Agency on projections of resource use and labour supply in health and care. It is committed to long-term cooperation on this issue. Models and analyses to be used by municipalities and health businesses at regional and local level are being developed, including: in order to ensure sufficient capacity in the services. We have also commissioned the Health Directorate to further develop and improve national quality indicators for care services. We have done this because we want more accurate knowledge of the quality of care for the elderly. Good quality indicators will facilitate comparison between municipalities and over time. There can be a lot of knowledge and learning here. The government will set up a separate national representative of the elderly according to the model of the Children’s Ombudsman. The parental representative shall contribute to the protection of the rights of the elderly in different areas and social arenas. With a national ombudsman, attention to the needs of the elderly is strengthened and the elderly are given a speaker. The Ombudsman will give the elderly a voice that we need to hear, one that can gather experiences and things across the country. Many older people are afraid to be bothered, and it may be easier to say from on behalf of someone else than on behalf of themselves. Here the ombudsman can have an important function. The National Audit Office’s report identifies important issues in terms of accessibility and quality of health care services. Together with the government, I will continue to work continuously to ensure good and sound services for elderly patients and users.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e815	The National Audit Office’s report points to two important points, the need for better quality objectives in the care of the elderly and more State instruments. My question to the Council of State is: What quality objectives will she promote, and what state instruments will she propose?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e820	We have the quality indicators, which have gone from 11 to 24, which we're now up to, which gives us the basis for seeing what's going on out there. If you go into health Norway.no, you'll be able to break down until the individual municipality on these different indicators to see how the stand is out there, what is not good enough, and what works like it should. With regard to grants, new instruments from the state, we see in Life all our lives how, for learning purposes, we can go more focused. This also applies to the ear-labelled substances that need to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e828	State Councils referred to senior officials as one of the measures taken. I am not going to say anything wrong about having an elderly representative, but my impression is that many of the people I enjoy meeting when I am quite often in the hospital will probably not be able to use the elderly representative to a large extent. We have to have systems that take care of people, as well as being able to assert their rights through an agent. My question really concerns what I said briefly from the pulpit, the comitology comment behind the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV, which concerns the management of medicinal products and the prevention of accidental falls, where it is criticised that this has been done too little. The question is: what has the Council of State done to enhance the safety of medicinal products and measures against falls?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e835	Most of this report is based on 2017 and maybe 2016. One of the first things I got into was just the high number of falls that we have in our home. That's why we've now put forward a zero vision for falling accidents, where we've spent money, and where we work well with safe communities and with other bodies, to make sure we get down from the platform we don't want, at the top of the world in the number of falls. We see the importance of training, both regular training in collaboration with different centres and how we can go in with knowledge and preventative home visits to help, so that we don't have as high a proportion of people who break their thighs, as the one we see on the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e842	The National Audit Office's report is very serious reading. He concludes that one does not know enough about the quality or the capacity of the care services. The Council of State refers to the big message Life for the rest of your life as the answer to these challenges. I would like to mention that when we dealt with that message in the Health Committee, there were a number of hearing authorities that problemated the hearing, which said that one did not focus enough on the sick, nursing elderly, and wanted action. The KS described this message as a maximal possible policy for the lowest possible money. I agree with the hearing statements. My question to the Council of State is how she thinks that the notification will improve patient safety, quality and capacity in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e849	It's important to see the different issues in context. The lifelong reform Life is based on 15 different plans and strategies. Then we've sewn this together and put Life forward all our lives. Just the mapping that will take place now, in 2019, that we have granted 48 million. In addition, municipalities should become familiar with their own inhabitants, become familiar with where they fail, what they are not good enough, and how local self-government, local democracy, use the means they have – whether they are using them correctly, or perhaps they are not using them properly. Much of the answer to what comes out, including from the representative Toppe, is government-funded care for the elderly, the experience we have with our SIO project. I can quote from what appeared in the last report, because it actually answers a lot of what we are saying here: ‘Increasing competence and interaction’, ‘New tools in the allocation process’, ‘better user involvement’, ‘greater professionalism in allocation practices’, etc. I could have read a lot. So it's important to look at the measures we've taken and harvest them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e856	In particular, a government council responds to a national audit report by referring to the regulation of the care of the elderly, for which there are no majority in the Stortinget. The fact that the responsible state council refers to it is quite special in such a serious matter. I have a question when it comes to what's being shown about patient safety, that one will expand the alert system. I guess that's good. However, in 2015, a NOU came up on measures to prevent adverse events in the health and care services. The NOU was never followed up with a big message from this government. The Patient Safety Programme, referred to here, was launched by the Red-Green Government but ended in 2018. It was also shown here. I'm worried that it's about to end. The reporting system according to Sections 3 to 3 of the Special Health Services Act will also be terminated, the most widely used notification system – 10,000 messages per year of prevention, about things that have almost been happening. How can the Council of State defend these arrests?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e863	First, we have patient and user representatives in each state. Now we're creating a national system as well. We have a health oversight that has the overall responsibility for entering into both regular supervision and unannounced supervision. But the municipalities must be aware to learn from what is. And who is governing the municipalities today? Except 70 pst. governed by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. And it's still the case that no matter what we discuss here, it's the municipalities that have the primary responsibility. Then we're going to make sure that there are opportunities both for the economy and for knowing our municipality. I hear the representative says that I should not respond as a response – because there is no majority for in this room – state-funded care for the elderly. In fact, there is a majority in this government for state-funded care for the elderly. This government has decided to extend the experiment. So it's a majority to expand the experiment we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e872	Every time a critical question is asked, one takes responsibility for another, to which it was allocated in the last article of the Council of State. I want to focus on what I introduced, because if there's something the Riksrevision shows, and that's just a follow-up to what we've been told over and over again, it's that we don't know enough about the situation of the residents of Norwegian hospitals and those who receive home services. We just don't know enough. The times you've done a deep dive in the situation, one has found very serious things. Even if the Council of State wants to put in place various arrangements, etc., it must be interesting for it to find out what the real situation is. Is this in line with human rights? Then my question is, simply: Will the Council of State be involved in a proposal asking for a full review of the human rights situation of the inhabitants of Norwegian hospitals and those receiving home services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e881	Just that question another SV representative asked in this room earlier, so I can read my answer on it again: The starting point is that Norwegian law is considered to be in compliance with international obligations. We already have good systems to detect and monitor failures in healthcare. Health surveillance assesses whether the services provided are of a sound nature and in accordance with the applicable legislation, including in accordance with human rights. Then comes what I think is very important: if a health care business is run in a way that can have harmful consequences for patients or others, or is otherwise irresponsible, the State Health Authority can order to rectify the situation. The government will include the conditions of Norwegian nursing homes and the older proportion of the population in reporting to international human rights bodies as far as this is natural. We also see that, through reporting to international bodies, Norway will receive feedback if Norwegian law and current practice are not considered to be in line with our international commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e890	I listen carefully to what the Council says, but to clear up a little here: Norwegian law, the intentions of the law and the intentions of messages – there is nothing wrong with it. The problem is that reality is something completely different. We don't even have an overview of the quality and patient safety situation in hospitals. That's what the National Audit Office has discovered, that's what the National Human Rights Institute has uncovered. Then I found it strange that one is not willing to find out if the reality is in line with what the law and the messages put up. When serious things such as mistreatment and degrading treatment of the elderly take place on a large scale in Norwegian hospitals and in the home country, it must be alarming for a responsible government council to have a full review of this. So I'll ask you again: Will the Council of State do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e899	The previous debate comes in again – I do not think the representative Knag Fylkesnes was in the room then – and this with the quality indicators that we have. We have 24 good indicators that show how things stand in the municipalities. If the representative goes into health Norway.no, he can go all the way down to the individual municipality, even to the one he comes from, and see how the municipalities deliver on the different indicators. For example, in the last 12 months, how are medical assessments? What does it look like with regard to dental problems? What does it look like for employees in terms of work and education? How does each municipality provide daily activities for people with dementia living at home? What is the daily activity offer for people living in institutions? I could still and still, so this is right there. But that's not always good enough. Therefore, it is important to monitor whether there are changes that need to be made. After all, we have had some horrible examples in the past few days that show that this is not good enough. But that also means that we have to make the municipalities more responsible for being able to deliver in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e906	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e914	The main findings of the report have already been referred from the pulpit. The summary is serious. It says something about the formidable problem we face when there are twice as many older people in Norway over the next 20 years. How we're rigging today is crucial if we're able to solve that problem. For the Workers' Party, there is a red thread in the old age policy: Elders must be the boss of their own lives. It should continue to be whether you receive extensive services from the municipality or whether you live in an institution. In healthcare, there has been a campaign over several years: the question ‘What is important to you?’ will be at the heart of the service’s meeting with users. It is therefore inconsequential that older people are allocated health and care services without having their needs and wishes properly met. The National Audit Office’s report points to the need for better quality objectives and more State instruments. The working party has made a proposal on quality requirements in the care of the elderly which has been dealt with earlier today. We believe this could have answered some of the criticisms in the report we are now considering. This proposal does not get a majority, but we are pleased that several parties on the red-green side say that they support the intention of the proposal, and we look forward to a common red-green lift for the care of the elderly and hope for close cooperation with the SV and the Central Party on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e923	I refer you to my case rapporteur's post, where I presented the Committee's thoughts and attitude. In addition, I would like to make some own comments relating to the matter. The report from the National Audit Office, which we are dealing with, is a very important document because it reveals issues in today's care for the elderly that have to be addressed. That is why I am very pleased that we have a government council that has made such clear feedback that she takes these findings very seriously. I must also say that I am proud to belong to a government that has really placed the care of the elderly as high on the agenda as it has done. For the first time, in fact, a separate senior minister has been set up. This means that we have a dedicated government council that fits this field and that care for the elderly and the elderly will be given more attention and space in the social debate. The quality reform Life throughout life is just an example of the fact that care for the elderly is high on the agenda, and the reform has focused on bringing together and systematising the work of the municipalities that have found new and better solutions in the provision of older people. It's this learning from each other, because quality in care for the elderly is not just about extra resources. It's about it, too, but it's about organizing services in a new way, and it's about management a lot. I think that this quality reform – living all my life – is an incredibly important reform. It focuses on strengthening the quality of what is entirely fundamental, namely food and meals, activity and community, health care and the coherence of services. Several have also addressed patient safety here today, and we need to take it very seriously. It's very serious, and it's tragic what we read about, that happened last week, when a person in a nursing home died after being bathed in hot water. This is not to be done in Norway. That is why we need to focus on patient safety, we need to carry out risk assessments, and it needs to be done across the country. We have a patient safety programme — in safe hands — where there are some good interventions, and hospitals and municipalities are well-informed to introduce a total of 16 interventions in different risk areas. Three packages of measures are concerned with the coordination of lists of medicinal products and the proper use of medicinal products in hospitals, home care and hospitals. Quality of service is a major factor in the relevant competences of those working in the care of the elderly. In order to develop good quality indicators, the expertise needs to be up-to-date with those performing the service. Then it's good to be able to refer to numbers from the SSB, which says we've had a growth of about 5,000 annual works in 2017, of which 80 pst. had a health and social background. Thus, the proportion of annual work on education has increased in health and care services. This contributes to improving the quality of services. A lot of good quality work is being done in the care of the elderly, the government has taken care of the findings and the weaknesses outlined in the report. The recommendations in the report are accepted with the introduction of the quality reform Life throughout life, and it is important that the authorities follow this up with supervision, as I mentioned in my previous post, for supervision is speeding up quality work in the municipalities. I know that as a longtime health care manager.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e940	It's an important report, and it's really what comes out there. What I think is quite eye-catching is that there is evidence that the municipalities have not examined the needs before the provision of services. The report states that in one of four cases the municipality has not been in contact with the user before the decision was taken. I thought it was quite eye-catching. One thing that few people have mentioned today is that it's related to consensual competence. With the background to the Tolga brothers and mental retardation, I believe the problem is also great in the care of the elderly in this area, and I expect the government to take it seriously. The report says that in approx. 20 pst. of the cases should have been referred to, which is hardly, and that there is a great lack of knowledge in the services about this with the consent and assessment of the competence of consent. This has legal certainty for many people who have a starting dementia. Something else that I also lack in the report is the focus on the relatives. It's also part of the quality scope. When we know that in one of the four cases the user himself has not been heard, at least they have not been heard in very many of the – and perhaps all – cases. I think it's important that you look at a holistic quality approach in the community health service. High sickness absences and many part-time settings are clearly something that needs to be improved in order to provide a basis for creating good quality services. To the comment from SV, as the representative has mentioned, I would say that for the Central Party, we have largely supported all the proposals from SV – at least about human rights violations, and we agreed on it as a matter of nutrition. In our alternative budget, we also had a pay-as-you-go arrangement for the kitchen at the hospital. We have also been in opposition to measures to increase the number of full-time health settings and are very much in agreement that these are concrete measures that can actually get an effective tool out there to ensure quality. I showed in my reply to NOU 2015:11, With open map – Prevention and follow-up of serious incidents in the health and care services. I am very disappointed that one does not follow the clear recommendation to extend the notification system to the municipalities. Instead, one resigns. The NOU warns against creating such a disaster commission, but the government has introduced it. Then one can't afford more supervision, because all the funds go to a research commission that has very few cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e955	I'm very happy that we have the Riksrevision that goes through as clearly as they've done in all of these areas. That is what drives policy further, that we can both come up with new solutions and see how the shoe prints. Therefore, it has also been important for me to take off my own shoes and put them on someone else's shoes when I have traveled around in connection with Life my whole life. It is also important that we now facilitate the ability of municipalities to meet the challenges. That is why we have started a number of things during 2018 and 2019. I thought I'd mention a couple of them. Among other things, we have introduced duty and right to alert. I was inside it in my post. The National Older Ombudsman is coming. State-funded care for the elderly comes as a pilot project. I am also working on a related strategy – a little in view of the last posts of the representative Toppe. We've increased the grant of daytime activity for people with dementia living at home. We're going to give up to 70 pst. grants for the construction of a multi-day care centre. We were within the indicators that have increased from 11 to 12 to 24, which can be broken down and viewed in each municipality. For those who haven't, it's really interesting reading. Go in and look at the individual municipality and see how they deliver – or not deliver. We have received a medical review – which was asked by one of the Workers’ Party’s representatives in the past – where it is now to be carried out at least once a year. I'm looking at whether we should maybe expand this, and relative to the decision-makers, we're clear on what we expect there. We have started it with a police record in the care of the elderly. We have set up a survey commission on health and care services. We have, in cooperation with BI, established our own leadership training for those who work in the sector. We view nutrition as an important key in Life throughout our lives, but also in other areas to ensure the nutritional status of the elderly. We have established a Council for an age-friendly Norway, which is important to see the whole. How do we live in the future? How are we going to take care of older people in a society with more and more technology use? And when we're into welfare technology, we now have welfare technology programs where almost 300 municipalities are involved, and we've spent well and well 100 million. kr on this. Competence was within us – 1.5 billion. Let's just apply it. And the rapporteur was involved in 5,000 new annual works in the health and care sector. Yeah, it happens a lot. Finally, I have to arrest the representative Bjørke. The claim that we cut the grants to a nursing home is wrong. And then to SV, who says that it's nothing new that we don't have funds for the kitchen and don't assess this until long in time: we strongly consider this, and the means to get the kitchen back to the hospital are prioritised from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e964	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e980	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to three rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e989	I was a little quick to go up to the pulpit – I regret that. I would first like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and then I would like to thank the National Audit Office for a good case-by-case basis. Control of the ownership of state companies, corporate control, is a very important part of the work of both the Riksrevision and the Stortinget. Through company control, the Riksrevision investigates whether the State manages its interests in the companies as determined by the Stortinget. Only to take a few perspectives: The company control for 2017 includes 111 companies, and the total value of the state's direct ownership was 844 billion. kr and total revenue of 1276 billion. kr. So it's enormous economic values that we're talking about here, which is extremely important that the Storting has control over. But not least: these are also companies that provide societally critical services that are decisive for preparedness, infrastructure, and for the lives and health of the inhabitants. In this year's report, there are a lot of areas that have been investigated, but there are three areas of society in particular I want to take note of, and there are two things in particular I want to go into. When it comes to the field of society, we see in the field of economics that the wage growth of state companies is considerably higher than the general wage growth, and the ministry does not have enough control over inside information. In the field of transport, Avinor and the Ministry of Transport have not followed up on cost-effectiveness well enough. In the health field, there are many outpatients who are not allowed to make good use of their medical capacity. Furthermore, there are large cost exceedances for digitisation projects in Health South-East. The implementation of Health South-East’s joint radiology programme project is highly critical, and health professionals are too passive in the follow-up of quality and patient safety in the specialist services. So I want to go into two fields. The first is about the evidence of government and the day-to-day leadership of state-owned companies. The Riksrevision's findings are that the costs of providing evidence to the board of directors and day-to-day leaders in the majority of companies have grown higher than the average wage growth in society. There is a problem with reporting and openness. It's out of order, according to the National Audit Office. The costs of the governing liability insurance companies have increased, and the department does not consider the management liability insurance to be part of the remuneration of the members of the board. In this context, the Committee points out that developments are critical, and at the same time, the pension schemes for ordinary wage earners are being streamlined, so that people have to work longer in order to achieve normal retirement, and that there is a need for moderation in pay terms. It's problematic that people in government have a completely different kind of development than what is required by moderation from the rest of the population. So to the digitization projects in Health South-East. We have recently received a comprehensive briefing on the status of two of these projects. That's what I want to point out; it's good that the Storting gets that information. However, according to the Riksrevision and the Committee's assessment, it is problematic that one has too poor control over it. In the radiology program, this has directly affected patient safety, something that the Storting really looks at. Finally, I want to come back to several things here; it's a very comprehensive case that it's difficult to do thoroughly for on measured 5 minutes. However, that the failure of radiology has gone beyond patient treatment, the committee will emerge as particularly problematic. It is because it has not been derived from the benefits and risks, that the governing body has not managed the managing authority to say so in a targeted and good way, and that the task providers have not followed the supplier well enough. This has gone beyond patient safety and should contribute to learning, and we will probably get more right from the Council of State on how it has been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1012	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the review. I intend to focus mainly on what the Riksrevision says, and then I quote: ‘The cost of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Executive Director has, in the majority of companies, increased more strongly than the average wage growth in society.’ I think that's very serious. The figures show that 27 out of 43 companies have more growth in remuneration than 2.5 p.m., which has been the general one in society. Eight of the companies have also had more than 10 pst. increase each year, and the directors of 9 out of 43 companies have had an increase of more than 10 pst. In the case of executives, the Riksrevision report shows that 24 out of 43 executives have a higher wage growth than the average. Seven executives have been between 20 and 40 pst. in growth. I think it is very serious, especially because we are talking about years when workers in Norway have shown a high level of social responsibility by entering into wage negotiations with modest pay demands, i.e. by showing wage moderation. So in a situation where ordinary people in Norway take responsibility, we see that people in leadership positions on behalf of society do not take the same responsibility. Not rarely do we discuss in this room the fact that the differences in Norway are now increasing. This is one of the examples of why differences in Norway are increasing — because those in such positions are running away from the general wage trend. Some of the explanation might have been given by the state council, Åse Michaelsen, who just left the hall. This was the trend in the number of senior executives in the health sector, in the Health Directorate. Of course, she used a State Secretary to answer on behalf of herself, and I quote this answer to the Newspaper: ‘We have no desire or ambition to govern our underlying establishments or businesses.’ When the person in charge of the individual area says actively that one will not have influence, it is very much against what is stated in the country's ownership message, for it has been said from the first one, whom I had the pleasure of presenting, to the last that the salaries should be competitive and the remunerations competitive but not pay-leading. There has been a broad consensus on this. It has been proposed by both the previous government and the current government and has always received unanimous support from the Stortinget. And yet we have state councils who think no, so they shouldn't interfere. It is then important that, in the future treatment of the ownership notification, it is actually taken into account, and that the person responsible for the overall state ownership policy, which is the Minister for Enterprise, tells his government that when the government asks to adopt that kind of attitude, they get to follow it up in practice. Finally, just a short comment. The case rapporteur was in the area of Health South-East and ICT issues. About that, we got a statement on February 14. I have to say that I reacted very much to that statement, because then we experienced a government council that used the occasion by asking the Grand Council to come and make a statement to go straight with the Riksrevision and the Riksrevision report. At that time, the Council of State had plenty of opportunity to do so in the preparation of the national audit report! I've never experienced it before, and I hope I'll never experience it again, that a government council to those degrees abuses the institute by asking for an explanation. With regard to the explanation for the rest, it was in line with what was mentioned as the need from the Riksrevision, from us, and it was okay, without me going into the professional content of it. But it should have been held after today's meeting, and it should have been neat given that one does not abuse such an opportunity to argue against the Riksaudition report. We're going to do that here today, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1034	As usual, the National Audit Office has produced a good and thorough report. But there's one thing we're kind of wondering about, and it's the assessments that have been made about this with corporate liability insurance, whether the board liability insurance should be part of the board remuneration and thus considered a taxable advantage that comes to taxation. The majority of the Committee also took this view. They write: ‘These members believe that this should be considered as part of the remuneration of the members of the Management Board.’;» And so it becomes taxable. Administrative liability insurance is nothing new. This was put on the market in Norway in the 1970s, and in 2006 it had more than 60 pst. by Norwegian listed companies, they have taken out management liability insurance. As stated in the report of the National Audit Office, governance responsibility has been strengthened in both law and case law since then, and there has been a significant increase in governance matters before the courts. And as the report also says: ‘A member of the Governing Board shall hold all of his personal property.’ As a member of a board of directors, you can be held personally responsible for any mistakes made by the board, even if you have acted in good faith. You can therefore risk having large claims addressed yourself as a private individual. This does not apply only to those who are in government corporations, to all those who hold positions of government, absolutely all governments. If you are a member of limited liability companies, housing laws, joint ventures, teams and associations – that applies to everyone. To give an example: in 2017, there were 569 487 board members in share companies in Norway, i.e. only in AS, and there are probably hundreds of thousands more if we look at all kinds of boards. In fact, this also applies to teams and associations, board members who can be held responsible, on a non-statutory basis, and I think unfortunately many board members are not aware of this and say yes to board members without knowing what responsibility and the risk they take on. It is where the challenge lies in the assessment of governance liability insurance — whether it should be part of the remuneration, which then becomes taxable. The tax law clearly states that the tax compensation itself is taxable profit: it says ‘remuneration as a member of the board, representation, selection, advice and the like’. In the vast majority of companies, collective insurance is provided for the members of the board of directors. So it's the company that's the policyholder, and it's the board member that's secured. Then the question is, is this a basis for taxation? I mean no, and according to the audit report, neither do the departments consider that the board liability insurance is part of the board remuneration, so at least here we are on the same line. The basis for the tax liability is the benefit of work and a board liability insurance does not give rise to any financial advantage for the board member. As a small comparison, I can mention that if an employer covers the authorisation fee for an employee’s accountant, the Tax ABC states that this does not trigger any tax liability for the employee, as this is not an economic advantage. Administrative liability insurance covers personal legal liability. This is a security for the board members, not an economic advantage. Without this security, it may be more difficult to get qualified persons to sit on the boards, as the risk of personal responsibility may outweigh the work itself, especially when developments at the same time show that governance responsibilities have been strengthened both in law and in case law. The report — on individual departments — also mentions the following: «probably would be irrelevant for board members of large entire companies to take on such positions without insurance». Finally, the National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, when it comes to the design of the State ownership policy, should consider whether or not to treat civil liability insurance as part of the remuneration of the Board of Directors. The result of this assessment will apply to all governments, not only to the government. If the ministry thinks that such an assessment is necessary, I expect them to do so, but also that you think that this is not just a matter of state policy, that is, of all governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1068	A small personal comment from the sideline: Governance insurance — tax liability or not? I think it's tax law, not company law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1071	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good presentation. I can support almost everything he was in. There are several people who have been involved in this with pay, but I still think I'll take it. Statistical Central Bureau provided statistics on earnings for September 2017 to September 2018. He sees that the growth in average monthly wages has been 2.9 p.m., while in the state he has been 3.2 p.m. There is a strong contrast to the report of the Riksrevision, which shows that the government and the state councils do not take decisions seriously in the Stortinget. When nine directors have had an increase in evidence of more than 10 pst., a question mark has to be set at what the responsible state council has not received from the steering signal from the Stortinget. Once again, it is pointed out that rents in state companies must be in proportion to other wage developments here to countries. When one of the leaders' strategies and guidelines has said that they should be competitive, but not wage-earners, one has to wonder: What are the government councils responsible for not getting? And this is a joint committee that points to. It is in the governance dialogue with these companies state councils that these orders must be issued. When a member of the Riksrevision receives packaging because there is a lack of openness about these questions, it does not suggest anything more reliable. We need to be able to expect government councils to take up the money gap and ensure that wage growth does not escalate to the extent that we have seen over the years that have been examined. Governments are not responding to these challenges. It was the last time in January that the Minister of Health and Health did not want to go into the debate on the rent wages at the Institute of Public Health. Even if they had added 200 fewer, the wage growth has continued for the leaders, while others have been told to leave. In connection with the submission of the State budget last October, a study in the Class struggle showed that top leaders of 40 state companies increased their salaries by an average of 6,5 p.m., or 167 400 kroner. I see no reason why the head of the state capital management company Argentum should have $6.9 million. kr in wages and salaries. Only one month before, in September, Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, at the World Cup in Kristiansund, had come with a warning against a paycheck for ordinary wage earners. This is not a threat – to have a Council of States leading the way in the bonanza it itself warns against. The Minister of Industry has warned Stortinget that a new ownership message will come in the spring. It should be interesting to see if the leader's wages will be something that will be a theme there, or whether this will still be a theme where the government lets it slide and goes without regard to the debate we have on leadership wages or moderation. So I'd like to comment a little bit on the Riksrevision's comments when it's about its use of time. One sees that the ligaments are increasingly spending less of their time on patient rights and direct patient work and more and more of the time on paperwork and other things. There is an important part of the challenges with the capacity of many outpatient clinics around. I think it's important that a dare to look at this and get improved. Together, one shows that there is a challenge in relation to insider dealing, where the state companies too have too little focus. It's important that you follow the Riksrevision's indications.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1092	Differences in Norway are increasing, and this is mainly because they run off at the top with more and more of the value creation. The ten percent with the highest pay is getting more and more, while almost everyone else is standing completely still. We, who are gathered here at Stortinget, have a lot of responsibility for that. People out in the country should know what the Storting is doing, or maybe more importantly what we're not doing, as far as Difference Norway is concerned. Today we received a report from the National Audit Office, which has gone through the management of state companies and companies for which we at Stortinget have the highest responsibility. The report shows that wages for them at the top are completely out of proportion. Not only do directors and board members have millions of wages, but wages are increasing much faster than the rest of the salaries in society. Then it's no wonder that the differences are increasing. The government doesn't need a separate report to see why the differences are increasing when it stands for a policy where those who have the highest pay get even more in pay than most people. It is the recipe for a policy that increases differences in Norway. The contrasts here are pretty scary. While overpaid managers and health bureaucrats have million wages far above the prime minister of the country, last year health professionals went down to pay. The same majority of people in this Chamber who do hard work in the public sector – which leads to longer waiting time in the courts, longer queues at Nav, more corridor Asians in hospitals – close their eyes to this executive wage bonus at the top for which they are responsible and in which they could cut if the majority in this Chamber were willing to fight the increasing differences. Instead, they live perfectly well with the fact that there is a snout on the floor and a cake party in the control rooms. It is a policy in which Red deeply disagrees. Measures to stop these developments have often been proposed — freezing wage levels, cutting wage levels or linking them to average wage growth in the rest of society. It has not lacked proposals that would be necessary and that would lead to minor differences. All the proposals have been put right down by the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party. None of the proposals have been adopted at Stortinget. Then it is not surprising that the report from the Riksrevision is as clear as it is. And if anyone is wondering how it might be that they are moving from the rest of the state, those who are doing the job on the floor, it's just reading the Riksrevision report and going into the votes we've had in the Storting, where the bourgeois parties have turned the deaf ear to and let this leadership pay party continue in years after year, despite the crystal clear speech of the figures, and despite the fact that the same government in the parties – every single year and preferably every month – talks nicely about the need for a society with less differences and taking care of Norway as a society with little differences. That they don't get a bad taste in the mouth of these bottles when we see what they actually vote for and do on the Storting, and what they do in practice with their government power by letting the millions rush out on top of the top bosses while they kiss hard for those who do the job that's absolutely crucial for Nav clients, for patients, for those who have to in the courts – it's a big paradox, but it's also the recipe of a policy that increases the differences, not diminishing them. This is the Riksrevision's report, a clear evidence: that this government is not doing anything in practice, but just talking and talking and talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1103	The National Audit Office has carried out a study on the development of remunerations to the Boards and to the executives of companies in which the State owns all the shares, as well as on the reporting of such remunerations by the companies – that is, different things we discuss. The national audit finds that the remuneration of a majority of these companies has for a period had a stronger increase than the average wage growth in society. Against this background, the Riksrevision recommends that the departments pay attention to the growth of the remunerations of the board and ensure that the board takes into account moderation in determining wages and any bonuses to the Executive Director. These are themes that are central to the state that owns. This is firmly anchored in the ownership policy to which the Stortinget has joined, and it is obvious that the Ministry will continue to pay great attention to moderation. This applies both in the assessments of management fees and in the dialogue with the board of directors on remuneration to the Executive Director. There is also an element here of a larger political picture, for Norway is characterised by small differences. It is also important that the remuneration is reasonable, which is also described elsewhere in the country's ownership principles, in order to maintain the high trust we have. At the same time, as the Committee's comments also reflect, the assessment of remuneration often involves demanding balances. It's not like there's a general rule that management fees, for example. can never grow more than the wage growth. The starting point is that the remuneration is to be competitive in order to attract and maintain the right skills, but at the same time moderation must weigh heavily. There are a little different emphasis and different descriptions of how this is for the directors and the employees, the managers. The starting point is that there is no phase response in each and every establishment. For some governments it may sometimes be right to increase the fee more than for example. wage growth, but nevertheless the sum and evolution over time shall reflect moderation. In its study, the National Audit Board also finds an improvement potential for the reporting and transparency of companies in the annual accounts of costs to the Board and the Executive Director. The National Audit Office recommends that the departments ensure that the requirements of the Accounting Act are complied with. As owner, of course, the government expects the governments to ensure that the companies comply with all the laws and regulations. It is also important in the interests of transparency that they report well on remuneration to the Management Board and the Executive Director, and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries will underline it to the companies. The National Audit Office also recommends that the Ministry assess whether or not management liability insurance should be considered as part of the remuneration of the Board of Directors. The majority of the committee believes that it should. The Ministry will assess this issue, including what may be established practices in other companies, and we will come back to the Storting on it in an appropriate way. The national audit has also carried out a study on internal controls and procedures in the handling of inside information. Proper management of inside information is important for confidence in the country as owner and sector authority. It is therefore very positive that the National Audit Office is reviewing and highlighting the ministry's work on this. It is also positive that the main picture from the survey, as I believe it, shows that inside information is handled properly in line with the applicable legal provisions. At the same time, the National Audit Board has made evaluations and recommendations to which the Committee, with one exception, subscribe. We will normally take the recommendations and comments of the Committee with us in further work to ensure proper internal control and management of inside information.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1129	I think the Council of State began well in terms of the need for moderation in the development of directors' salaries and remunerations. But then there came some ‘but’, and with those ‘but’s’ it seemed as if it was so difficult — it was demanding, it was necessary to get the best people — the known arguments. Then I have to ask the Council of State: with the numbers that he partly and among other things. I have referred to, as is actually stated in the Riksrevision report, the Council of State itself believes that what is stated in the Riksrevision report is acceptable in the wording that one should not be leading, but competitive? Or does the Council of State think that what we have perceived as a common position on ownership policy is broken by what the Riksrevision has revealed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1134	My point was simply to say that on the basis of the very principles of ownership set by the Storting, which give the Boards a responsibility to make the assessments, as the Committee also stresses, and it is repeatedly emphasised that moderation should be emphasised – in particular, it also applies to directors’ fees, which are not, of course, set by the Board itself – it is not possible to say that any increase in addition to normal wage growth is automatically wrong. There may be companies where there are good reasons, such as: For example, there has been a very low level of long-term unemployment in order to increase remuneration — for example, in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Ireland and the United Kingdom. to participate more in the Board for a period of time or to attract the right people. The sum is that when I say that we look at what the Riksrevision says, and at what the committee says, and say that we will further stress that moderation should be emphasised – I also agree with the committee that this is a responsibility for both the board and the department to care for – it means that I agree with the evaluation of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1142	I choose to interpret it as the Council of State says he agrees that this is too wrong. I'm not talking about the individual company -- I'm talking about the total sum we see, and the averages we see when it comes to increase. In my opinion, there is no doubt that this is contrary to the intention of the wording of the ownership notification. So then my follow-up question is, what is the council going to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1149	First of all, what we're going to do is we're working on a new ownership message. Secondly, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is constantly in contact with the companies for which we are responsible, and underlines what is the government's and Storting's adopted ownership policy, including the emphasis on moderation. But my point is that if you do this just for a debate on the macro numbers, the Storting really sets a different standard than they put through the ownership message themselves. Because it's not like the Storting has said that there's a percentage that's moderate, and a percentage that's not moderate if you go over it. What the Storting has said – there is a slight difference in wording from government to management – has as its starting point to have something that is competitive to attract right people, but to focus on moderation. My simple point is that there's a point one in an assessment that the controller has to make. We need to make sure they know about the state's expectations, and press for them to follow them up. However, point two is that there must also be an individual assessment within the individual company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1158	It does not help with a new ownership message if, in the new ownership message, we are to adopt – on a proposal from the Council of State – the same thing as it is now, and we see the results we see. I presented the first statement of ownership, that was the first time we used that wording, and in my opinion, the results we see for the state companies now are far beyond what was intention. It is formulated as – and it is right as the Council of State says – because there are individual companies in individual situations that do not necessarily have to be just 2.5 pst. That's not what I'm saying. But we see increases far above that, not just once, but year after year. So, knowing that the ministry is in the general meeting – and in the whole-time companies, in many cases, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is the General Assembly – and that one in addition has influence, partly through governance dialogue, but also partly through electoral committees, over who actually sits on the board: is the Council of State prepared to replace people who allow this pay gap to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1163	Board members who do not respect the principles of ownership of the state and the Storting are natural to think that they do not have confidence — of course. But my point is that we're following up on what's the Big One's assessments, and also my comments in this room mean that we're busy stressing the further need for moderation. It also means using the tools we have available, within the framework set by the Stortinget, to communicate them to the companies. But I also think it's absolutely necessary to have a more nuanced discussion than just looking at the macro numbers, because it's not like the Storting has set a percentage. I agree that this can be a good rule of thumb in many situations. But the Storting must also, when assessing moderation versus competitiveness, say, as is clearly emphasised in the remark, that this responsibility is imposed on the boards, and that ultimately there must be an assessment in each company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1170	It has been clear in the ownership notice for many years what one thinks about wage developments and the course of state companies. Now the minister says clearly that this he will follow up and do something about, but he has many «but». What is it that over so many years now, the developments that have occurred there have happened, when the ownership message has been as clear as it has?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1175	My most important 'but' is not against the Committee's comments. It is against some of what I see as an emphasis in the posts here, namely that it could seem – at least for outsiders – that the Stortinget had now created a new ownership principle, namely that moderation by definition is not to lie above normal wage growth. That's not what Stortinget has given us in order to do. What the Storting has given us to do is to ensure that we balance the two considerations of competitiveness – now I'm simplifying a little – and moderation. So I say, point two, that I agree that this shows that we must continue to work on moderation, and that it should be a clear and clear expectation that we as the department must use the tools we have for it. There must also be an assessment of the individual board and the individual company. A lot of what we're talking about here is, for example, management fees. There may be changes in the company, changes in the country’s expectations that sometimes it is natural that the management fees are set up more than usual wage increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1184	But that's the challenge. It seems to me that all the ‘but’s’ make that when one sees developments in total over time, it’s not individual companies that have gone high, but there has been a much stronger growth in state companies in general. Should a change be made here, there must be a will from the responsible state council to make a change. When it comes to board fees, there was a discussion here with regard to board liability insurance and such, which is so far important to many in government. At the same time, it is often pointed out that government fees rise because the responsibility increases, but when you get good governance liability insurance at the same time, you have to see this in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1191	As far as corporate liability insurance is concerned, I have said that we will assess it. There are the good arguments in both directions. But once again to the point: if, in general, wage developments in the segment or universe from which directors are taken or recruited from – also to the state companies – increase, it means that, based on the framework that Stortinget has given, the understanding of what is competitive will also change. As I said, the size has not said that there is a fixed limit to moderation. The size has said that moderation should be given decisive weight. I agree. I believe that it needs to be emphasised even more clearly than what we are doing today, but it has been said that it should be weighed against competitiveness. That's my simple point, that's the balance size has been said to be done. Then we have also said in the remarks that the board has a significant responsibility, and then we as the department have a very significant responsibility to make sure that the boards understand the government's signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1200	Then we were here once again, in a situation where the developments in wages for leaders and board members, the justification of theirs, have galloped, while ordinary people are being encouraged to moderate in either salary or pension. That's where life straps are going to be tightened. One has to work longer to get the same pension, to get normal retirement, and in pay terms, ordinary people are encouraged to be moderate. The numbers we get here show that it doesn't have any kind of moderation here – in the big numbers. Here it has been the opposite of moderation. So it's quite clear that there's a difference between people, where they can say from the top part of the table to those sitting at the bottom part of the table, that they must be moderate, while one from the top part will not be. Then the central question to the Council of State is, to see if there will be any change here: can the Council of State guarantee that the wage and compensation developments for leaders will be more similar to the moderation required by ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1207	I ask to be believed that this is not difficult, but it is my job to manage the ownership message that Stortinget has agreed to. The Storting has not asked the government to guarantee the kind of things that the representative Knag Fylkesnes now addresses. Of course, if the Storting wants other principles, the Storing can adopt it. We get enough time to discuss it even when a new ownership message comes. What we are discussing today is whether or not the Ministry is following closely the principles laid down by the Stortinget today, which can briefly be summed up with competitiveness, moderation, where moderation is to be given decisive importance. Then I said that I think we should follow it even better, use the tools we have to do it. But that means that as long as one also believes that the boards have a significant responsibility, to which the entire committee – as far as I know – has joined, it is not possible for a government council to give such a guarantee. It will mean a completely different ownership principle from what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1214	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1220	I would like to comment on three of the studies in the National Audit Office's annual audit and audit for the financial year 2017. The first is the study of health enterprises’ use of medical resources in specialist health services. The National Audit Office points out that the capacity of outpatient clinics is not being used well enough. They also point to the consequences of lack of experience and the lack of systematic planning and follow-up. Health regions indicate that doctors spend a lot of time and resources related to manual reporting procedures for data on quality records and other national reporting points. An important measure here is the work of structured journals to facilitate reporting significantly. Health regions also point to digital consultations and other forms of medical distance follow-up as effective methods for both diagnosis and control of patients. This will be a central theme of the next National Health and Sickness Plan, to be submitted until the autumn. The National Audit Office recommends that both the Department and the Health Regions continue their efforts to reduce unnecessary waiting for patients. The same applies to undesired variation in efficiency and capacity utilisation in operation. Of course, I agree with that. I want to follow up on the Riksrevisions report. Among other things, I have asked regional health companies to follow up their main findings, comments and recommendations. This also implies that they must report to the Ministry on the follow-up. The second study is the implementation by Health South-East of the RIS/PACS regional radiology programme. The National Audit Office points out that the objectives were not achieved in the implementation of the Regional Radiology Programme by the South-East of Health, that the work has resulted in significant financial losses, and that there were shortcomings in the evaluation of needs, lack of decision-making capacity and lack of risk management in the Programme. Health South-East has implemented several measures. Reorganisation shall provide clearer roles and responsibilities, ensure better involvement of health businesses and better anchoring of decisions both in health enterprises and in the management of the regional health undertaking. The Management Board shall report on the implementation of the individual projects in the ICT portfolio. In this way, they will be better able to follow up adopted projects. The focus is on non-conformities reporting and closing measures. The third study is of the follow-up of quality and patient safety of the boards in the specialist healthcare service. The National Audit Office points out that there are shortcomings in the follow-up of quality and patient safety by the Boards and that the Department and the Health Regions do not ensure that each Governing Body as a whole has the right competence. I will base my follow-up on the National Audit Office’s studies and recommendations on the ownership management of regional health companies. In the joint enterprise meeting in January, I asked them to do the same in their follow-up to the health boards. I have highlighted in particular the need to strengthen the competence of internal control and risk management. In the business meeting I referred to the regulation on management and quality improvement in the health and care service. It determines that the management of the establishment shall have an overview of the areas of activity where there is a risk of failure or non-compliance with public authority requirements. Similarly, there is also a need for significant improvements in quality of service and patient safety. Here I refer to the importance of the Governing Boards playing a more active role in the follow-up to quality and patient safety. In order to contribute to the exchange of experience, I asked Health West to organise a seminar in which regional health businesses will provide concrete examples of improvement work in their own region. With regard to the development of the competences of the boards, I refer to the division of roles between the owners and the boards. The Governing Boards are primarily responsible for ensuring that the activities meet their objectives and are responsible for monitoring the performance of the Management Board and assessing the suitability of the Management Board. Furthermore, the owner is responsible for appointing the Boards. The Ministry follows in this work the government’s guidelines on the governance of companies in which the government owns. Among other things, a competence profile is developed for each of the boards. The profile is based on interviews, the Board’s own evaluation, enterprise challenges and strategic direction both in the short and long term. In particular, I would like to point out two training measures carried out by the Ministry. The Ministry conducts joint board seminars every two years. It is natural to have themes related to internal control and risk management and quality and patient safety follow-up. The second action is a separate Chairperson who shall support the understanding and exercise of the board of directors in a good manner. The Ministry has recently revised this Chairman-in-Office. The national audit has provided us with useful information and knowledge. As mentioned, I have followed up in my management of regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1252	There were a lot of lines I could have taken from what's written here, but I'm going to ask if what's written about the whole thing isn't good enough to focus on quality and risk management. They are not working on and are not getting information about the issues of quality and patient safety, and are not using unwanted events as part of the improvement work. I thought this was very eye-catching, with all the focus on patient safety and quality. It seems that health care professionals still have a focus on the economy, waiting time and deadlines. And that's it. I hear what the council says is going to happen, but a lot of commissions are already there. Can we trust that the government is now making sure that health care professionals will focus on reporting culture and patient safety work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1259	This is a topic that goes back to my follow-up of the boards of regional health companies and when I attend seminars with the boards of local health companies. I am responsible for appointing the Boards of Health in the region, while the health regions are responsible for appointing the Boards of Health Companies and their follow-up. But this is also the theme when I meet these board members and the board of directors. In the lecture meeting I asked the health regions to follow up this study, among other things. by ensuring that health businesses inform their administrations of their responsibilities for the follow-up of quality and patient safety. I have also underlined in the meetings the importance of their concrete discussion of these challenges, and that this is not – as I have a certain impression of having been a bit of tradition – a matter of guidance from management, and that governments do not really go directly into the individual situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1266	Then I have to have a follow-up question that concerns that the government will terminate the reporting system, which is the most used reporting system in hospitals, and which has the purpose of learning from them failed, and that one should learn from near-events. The reason from the government is that the scheme has no value, but this case shows that it may have been managed itself that should have taken over the reporting system and used it in the learning work. I would like to ask the State Council if he does not regret that the notification system should be discontinued when he sees what the Riksrevision says about the governance work and lacks a focus on unwanted events.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1271	No, I don't regret that we wind up the national reporting of the anonymous, unstructured messages, because what came out of it was a learning note, of which we haven't seen any documented effect. However, the messages within the business are not liquidated. That knowledge will continue to be available. I see that the main problem is not that the board of directors do not have enough knowledge, do not get enough knowledge or do not have data related to quality and patient safety, but that it is not being used. There has also been a recurring theme in my speeches on the annual missions, that the challenge in healthcare is now not a lack of data but a lack of data. That is also why I have introduced a new quality regulation that obliges management at all levels to review all available data from their activities at least once a year and to initiate improvement work on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1278	The Institute of Public Health has been mentioned as an example of its withdrawal in terms of management salaries and the number of high management salaries. Now it's probably constitutionally to his colleague in the same department, but let me ask the Council of State: As a government council, how will you contribute to your underlying agencies, health regions, etc., and do you agree that you have a responsibility to make sure that the salaries do not take off in those professions, or do you agree with the government council, Michaelsen, who said that she would not interfere in such things?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1285	The President will point out that you must not say "you" to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1290	I feel that the representative Dag Terje Andersen and I are, so it's fine. It's right, as Andersen's representative says, that the Public Health Institute is under Michaelsen's responsibility, but I feel that I have a responsibility to make sure that underlying agencies and businesses do not become pay leaders in terms of management salaries. That's also why I'm giving orders to follow up the leaders who are actually anchored here in the Storting through the ownership message, as Councillor Røe Isaksen also talked about in his line exchange. It's the same leadership I give to our underlying businesses. And then there's always special circumstances that make one get some changes in management wages from one year to another, but then one more is in on the individual leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1299	I agree with the Council of State that one should not discuss individual wages here, but the Council of State says that sometimes there are special circumstances. Does the Council of State agree that it is a bit special that special circumstances always lead to more pay increases than for other people? Is it true that someone is doing a bad job, for example, or is getting less responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1305	This could be done, for example, by: be that a manager is informed that he/she cannot have so many positions or positions alongside the management job. As a consequence of such tightening, it is natural in some cases to compensate for an increase in wages. It could give you some kind of a rash. There are such examples that could lead to an increase. But I'm not saying that one in general should accept a higher wage increase – on the contrary. We're not going to be the payroll in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1310	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1317	The National Audit Board’s control of the administration 2017 is very interesting reading, even when one is on the Health and Care Committee. I want to make some comments on these matters. In my view, when it comes to the use of medical resources in health services, it is all the more important in health policy to facilitate the meeting between patients and treatment providers. Health professionals are the very scarcest resource in health care, which is what we have to give the highest priority to. So it's a big concern that I'm just using 60 pst. of working time in direct patient-related work. The time spent on documentation, journals, epicrisis, and so on, is increasing to 40 pst. That's not how we can have it, and that's how we can't afford it. There is a wrong use of health resources, and there is also poor patient treatment. We have to do something about this. So to the point of getting more effective outpatients. I totally agree that there is a lot that needs to be done outpatiently because of medical developments, which will improve patient care, but we don't have to go into the trap – if we are changing the funding system to pay for it – to make admissions miserable. There is a great pressure on the daily capacity of Norwegian hospitals, especially in psychiatry, and I want to warn against going into the trap. So, about the radiology program in the Inland Hospital. This is a matter that we are now being dealt with in the Health and Care Committee, to which we will come back. What I find incomprehensible is that when it appears correctly that one had received repeated warnings early during the programme period from both internal professionals, external quality insurers and project leaders, the project management did not, however, make this information possible. There are several related issues in the health care community about exactly the same thing: criticism is not being heard. We now have a new, large ICT project in the Health Platform in Central Norway. Can we trust that not the same thing happens there? Can we trust that criticism that comes up will be heard? Can we close the main usage of external consultants that allow such a disclaimer? I would like to comment on what I had a reply about – quality and patient safety. It's very discouraging, and I really hope we can get a board that can put quality on the agenda and not just focus on the economy. Finally, I would like to say that I thought it was a very good setting and very good comments – boast about those who have written them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1333	I think that if someone is following this debate outside this house, they might sit back with a feeling that the leaders of the country demand moderation from ordinary people, most people, but that moderation should not apply to themselves – that moderation should not apply to themselves. It's a serious situation, because it's about trust between the leaders of society and the people. Norway's efforts will go through the years that come, in many areas of society, require leaders who take social responsibility, they too. One cannot just demand that most people take social responsibility, while those who are at the top of the table actively refrain from it. I want to refer to the situation we had in the line shift with the Council of State, where the Council of State said that a person really can't do anything, that a person really can't deal with this problem, because it's going to break the work on the ownership message that was done before. It's a special argument, because it's the last decision of the Storting as a liability. These are the signals that come from the Storting in the last round. If the Council of State feels that he has no mandate to notify that now, leaders, directors and board of directors must also have a moderate development of evidence and remuneration, yes, then the Council of State has been given that mandate today. It's actually not the first time, either. But if there was any kind of doubt, at least that doubt is gone now. Now, the Council of State can go back to its role as Council of State and inform all the companies that the state governs, that on the next crossroads we will see a moderation there as well. It is now possible for the Council of State to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1339	State councils cannot be an overlooker for Stortinget, rewind time, and recover decisions or formulations from Storinget that suit state councils. The Council of State must stick to the Storing as the Storing formulates itself now. So, the last time the matter was dealt with is the starting point for the government's work. There is no possibility of evading that obligation. And when a collective committee points to the imbalance between what one demands of ordinary people on the one hand, and the paycheck that has happened to leaders on the other hand, then the council must act!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1342	First a few words relating to corporate liability insurance and why we believe that it should be part of the remuneration: in my opinion, it is a natural consequence of what I consider to be the intention of the Share Act that the board members have personal responsibility. Just because responsibility is to be personal, it is natural that insurance which ensures any financial consequences of such liability is also part of the remuneration and that it is personal. I myself have been in a limited liability company that had to surrender the property, to say it like that, and I know that just the personal responsibility that one has by sitting on the board of a limited liability company makes one feel responsible, for example. not to operate on behalf of the creditor. So that's where we think there's a logical context, and I registered that the Council of State is willing to discuss it further. In terms of board remuneration and other remuneration to leaders, we're really talking about two things. What the Riksrevision has now examined is the evolution of the period and not the level of the individual board of directors. There's another discussion that's of itself important, but what we're now discussing is the additions from year to year. And I will allow myself, as I was the first to use the phrase "non-paying", to tell the Council of State that at that time it was the perception that one must have a particular good reason if one supplement from one year to another is to be in addition to normal wage developments. I believe that it is a natural way to interpret the concept of ‘non-profit-making’ in terms of year-to-year developments, that one must have a specific reason if there is to be anything other than the general wage development of society. It may have to be clarified more clearly, but to me it's the only logical way to read that wording, and I can also tell you that that's what was said to the companies at the subsequent ownership conference. And that's what we've been commenting on now, that so many companies have far beyond what is normal pay rise, and that it's dramatic, especially in a period when pay moderation and social responsibility have been important for the development of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1353	Thank you for the discussion. Just to underline some things, which are not new, but a repetition of what I have said: I not only agree that it is my duty as the Council of State to follow up the majority remarks, I also agree with the majority comments. I said several times clearly that we should use the tools we have, also to follow up the majority remarks, and that also means to underline and reinforce moderation and the message of moderation. But I've also been concerned with nuances, that this is about both government and management, and being clear about what the Storting has drawn up as principles of state ownership. The ownership message that comes is not insignificant, because it gives us an opportunity to discuss precisely whether there is a need for stronger wording and clearer clarifications of what the government believes and magnifies. But it's like no companies in Norway, owned by the state, are going to have any doubts about what's going on, and what's the state's expectation. The state's expectation is that moderation should be given decisive importance, and that is a message that is clear and clear to the governments, and that is a clear and clear message that we are promoting. Then I must be allowed to post a brief visit to the representative Knag Fylkesnes’ post, because I think that post was a little special. So it's not like the majority, or the committee, is asking the government to make a whole new ownership policy. It is therefore not the case that the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which has a different responsibility from that of the Economic and Social Committee, which is responsible for ownership policy, has asked the Government to accompany documents previously adopted. Everything in the majority's comments, I suppose – I think for granted – is a follow-up to the previously adopted principles laid down by the Stortinge for ownership management. I think it actually has a pretty great value that the Storting, collectively, has agreed that in the administration of state ownership is the precisely the Storing that is going to draw up some long-term lines that provide predictability. And then there is the discussion – after important examination by the National Audit Office – of how the ministry follows up these guidelines. And it's important, as I said, also because it's always the way we have to look at how we can improve. Are there procedures that need to be improved is the message that can be clearer? But the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, at least I don't think I'm reflected in the comments of the Committee, if it's to understand that the Committee asks us to replace the principles of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1366	I must admit that I thought the post to the Council of State was ‘interesting’ – not to use the word ‘special’ back. The role of the National Audit Office is to verify that the government and the state companies follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget. In this case, we see that it has been a wage development and a development of evidence that has our leaders. It has been far more than what ordinary people get in terms of income – far above, and over time – in contrast to what is in the ownership message. The role of the control committee is to be the follow-up body of the Storting and to say, when these kinds of cases come up, when we are going to review whether the government has followed up the policy of the Storing, it is the role of the control committee to inform whether this has happened or not. In this case, a joint committee writes: ‘The Committee would point out that these developments are taking place at the same time as pension schemes for ordinary employees are tightened up, so that people have to work longer in order to obtain a normal pension, and that moderation is encouraged in pay settlements. The day-to-day allowance scheme for the unemployed has also been streamlined. These developments, in which ordinary workers are encouraged to moderate, while managers are getting better conditions, intensify differences and are very unfortunate.» There's a joint control committee on the Stortinget. Governments cannot shop in committees. The only government council can deal with is Stortinget. And the role of the Control Committee is to check whether the decisions the Storting has taken in the past have been followed up by the Council of State. That was my point. To the extent that the Council of State has problems finding a mandate from the Storing to follow this up properly, taking up the non-moderate wage trend of the leaders of our country, he will at least find it here. The size suggests that this is contrary to how we should exercise good governance of the company that the state owns. Here we have a government council responsible for state companies. Is it not just a message to give? Is it not just to let the state companies that we're dealing with, that now one should understand this as it says, and say, "It shouldn't be a payroll. If there are any specific assessments, I would like to have it on my table." Can't the Council say anything as simple as that? I also think it is special that the Council of State cannot guarantee that in the future we will not get a paycheck, but that this can actually continue into the future. It's alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1378	The representative Day Terje Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1384	This applies to the same theme. No, it's not like the Control Committee's making new policies. We'll never do that, and we'll just flinch on it. We're checking whether adopted policies are being followed up, and we're saying it's not going to be. Some of the confusion may be related to the fact that the Council of State says that the size has not adopted a percentage of the increase. That's why I asked the question in the line change. Does the Council of State understand that this is within the meaning of the ownership notification? We don't get a clear answer to that. Instead he starts to talk about that the Storting has not decided a percentage, and that is when I say that the original perception of that formulation was just that one should have a development in remuneration or pay in addition to general wage developments, there must be a specific reason for that. It could be fun to hear if the Council of State would agree to such a formulation. Or the Storting must make sure that we are clearer in the order, because here it seems that the Council of State is trying to defend a significant wage trend in addition to general wage developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1391	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1403	Then it looks like we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1459	During the debate, Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the law or to make the necessary regulatory changes to ensure that women with serious birth defects are entitled to compensation or compensation.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1489	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with employees’ organisations, is asked to investigate and propose quality and competence-based recruitment standards in the care of the elderly.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1518	There is so much talk about proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote measures that give municipalities incentives to strengthen value-based local management of municipal care for the elderly and to provide appropriate information to the Stortinget.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1542	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and introduce quality requirements for the care of elderly people in Norwegian municipalities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to assess a solution with its own response teams in order to help municipalities increase the quality of the offer in the investigation of quality requirements for the care of the elderly.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1631	The President proposed that the Court should: 190 will be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1636	For the purposes of points (a), (b), (c), (c), (d) and (d) 190, immediate action against dangerous vehicle combinations on Norwegian roads. We suggest that this matter be dealt with quickly, according to § 39c, because there are still many dangerous, narrow, curved and smooth roads around our country. The winter is not over, although it's getting a little bit warmer here south. There are also many dangerous foreign vehicle trains, so we need immediate action from the Storting, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1641	It is well, as the President sees it, not anything in the proposal of the representative that would mean that the Committee on Transport could not deal with it. The President himself has our members in that committee for two periods, and he can work very quickly! There are two procedural proposals. The President proposed that the Court should: 190 will be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee. On behalf of Red, the Bears of Moxnes have put forward proposals for consideration in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal from the President and the proposal from the Bears of the Moxnes will be replaced by an alternative vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-07.ana.ud481e1657	The President's motion for a resolution is therefore accepted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
