ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21267	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than a third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the sittings of MP Radojko Obradovic. We are moving to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State Audition (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Velimir Simonović, Bozidar Koprivica, Zoran Krasić, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milovan Radovanović, Natasa Jovanovic, Goran Cvetanović, Milorad Mirčić, Dragan Čolić, Ljubomir Kragović, Milorad Krstin, Milivoje Vuković and Ljiljana Nestorović and Meso Omerović, as well as the amendment of the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Financial Committee shall, on the basis of Article 140(4). The Rules of Procedure, which suggests that in the bill the words "general act" should be replaced by "act" in the corresponding drop and number. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure, which suggests that in the bill the words "exterior experts" should be replaced by the words "sex experts" in the corresponding decline and number. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you are now violating the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because you read only the amendments submitted by the Finance Committee, without some order and order that the amendments have been submitted, i.e. you do not read in order in relation to the members of the bill. In this way you violate the Rules of Procedure on how a debate is conducted in particular for individual laws. I think it's inadmissible, especially now that the question is whether the SRS has submitted some amendments to the bill. I see now that as many as ten days the Finance Committee has submitted the same amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. The question arises whose amendments you accept, and whose amendments you do not accept, especially because the amendments in the text are exactly the same. Is it because these amendments are not accepted because they were filed by the MPs of the SRS, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21269	Mr Arsic, the first three amendments submitted by the Finance Committee are just text corrections, they are not, therefore, amendments that go in order, by members. Later everything goes in order and by members as usual. Mr. Arsic, if you are not satisfied with the answer, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare itself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the thing, what kind of games are these now? The article, the amendment that Mr. Chairman defended – the the thesis that should apply to Article 33, was submitted by Dragan Colic, the SRS MP, who replaces the word "exterior" in the title of article 33. Why is there no debate on amendments in order of members of the law, as submitted? So, not like this. Now they need to explain, say, Articles 30, 40 or 50, and then we'll go back to Article 6. What order is that? Does any law have any analogy to what is regulated by Article 1, which is the aim of the promoter – the last member. I guess there's some order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21271	Mr. Arsic, you have overlooked one thing, that the motioner here is in agreement with the amendment that has been given. I don't know why you're against the fact that the Finance Committee has submitted these amendments, the Proposer has agreed and these three amendments go ahead before the amendments go by members. It is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but if that answer does not satisfy you, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare whether the Rules of Procedure is injured. Thank you. I have a duty to ask if anyone else wants to talk about this amendment. No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, tabled an amendment proposing that "public income" be replaced by "acceptation" in the draft law. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 2. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the Amandamandman, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a People's MP, Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21272	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the state audit institution, by proposing that a new position 3 is added in Article 6 after Article 2 which reads as follows: "The procedure for the adoption of other general acts is the same as for the Rules of Procedure". In fact, Article 6 provides for a way to adopt general acts and Rules of Procedure of the institution. The Rules of Procedure shall be an act which shall give advice with the previous consent of the Assembly. The SRS considers that the procedure for the adoption of other general acts must be specified in detail by law, in the same way as the Rules of Procedure. Practically, the legislator could not carry out this deregulation of relations in this way, so to empower the institution to adopt general acts, we believe that this is not the jurisdiction of such a high institution, which otherwise has a very important position, but must be regulated solely by law. That is why we intervened with this amendment, to improve the legal text and to exercise control over the government, or control of the audit institution. That's why I think this amendment of mine should be adopted. I suggest you adopt it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21273	The gentleman, MP Veroljub Arsic, answered, and then Mr Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the debate began in detail on the proposal for this law and the conduct of the chairman, who runs this session of the Assembly, it is clear that this amendment submitted by Bozidar Koprivica, in front of the SRS, is fully justified. Today's session, i.e. the continuation of the session, was launched by breaking the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament. So, the ruling majority is not a foreign violation of a sublegal act called - Rules of Procedure. Article 6 provides that the institution has a Rules of Procedure which, in accordance with this law, regulates the way and procedure in which the institution carries out its audit competence, the way in which the public works of the institution, decision-making and other issues are laid down by law which are relevant to the work of the institution. So, the assumption is that if the ruling majority violates the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, forms members of the Council of the Supreme State Auditing Institution, gives consent to the new Rules of Procedure of the institution, monitors some analogy, we will see that this right of breach of the Rules of Procedure exists. Not only are you introducing a rule of violation of the Rules of Procedure but you are now changing even the practice of violating the Rules of Procedure, because for the first time since when there is a National Assembly, amendments adopted by an authorised representative of the Proposer, namely the Proposer, Mr Radojko Obradovic, who is unfortunately not in this Hall for some reason. He is probably also the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, who has accepted, as the committee responsible, these amendments, as vice-president of the Committee. So we have no one to talk to when it comes to this law, or when it comes to these amendments. What's the point? The goal is to give all other acts consent to the Serbian Parliament. If consent is given to the Rules of Procedure, why not to other acts. Could these other acts be the Statute? I can. However, the Statute is a higher sublegal act than the Rules of Procedure on the work of an institution. So, for a lower act like the Rules of Procedure, we will give consent, and the Statute will bring the Council and simply the Serbian Parliament will not have the opportunity to influence it, accept it or reject it. There is a problem when it comes to such legal proposals. That all other acts should be given the consent of the Serbian Parliament, it is already in Article 10. The draft law, which states that the subject of the revision is in accordance with this law: public receipts and expenditure in accordance with the rules on the budgetary system and the rules on public revenue and public expenditure, financial analysis, financial transactions, financial reports and other records, information from the audit entity. The regularity of the business of the audit entity is in accordance with the law, other regulations and powers conferred on it. It is also said that the purpose of the availability of public funds is either in whole or in part. Article 11 further states that audit entities are in accordance with this law: direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic's budget, territorial autonomy and local authorities, in accordance with the rules governing the budgetary system and the public income and expenditure system. Gentlemen, this means that the subject of an audit can also be the work of a particular ministry. Why, then, would the Serbian Parliament give up the right to control the ministries through an independent body? That is why it is necessary for the Serbian Parliament to give its consent to all other acts, not just the Rules of Procedure, which is essentially one lower sublegal act. Is it possible in that statute or in some other act to write that the subject of the revision, I took the Statute as an example, cannot be the work of a particular ministry? You got it. It can also be written that Serbia's Assembly has no idea at all, that we simply have no insight into the work of an independent state institution, which, according to the promoter, has an extremely great importance for the functioning of the budgetary system, public revenues and public expenditure on the territory of the Republic, especially if it is taken into account that the proposer, at least declared that this law is the most adopted in order to simply refer to those who have public funds in the spirit of a good host. The question arises why the proposing suddenly has a desire for a part of the Serbian Parliament's control of the work of an independent institution to deny the right to exercise full control. Does this mean that the Assembly should discuss reports only? Secondly, let's ask the question why didn't you control it and that ministry, this and that Republic Directorate? It can simply be explained, you know, we have the Statute, he regulates it, I'm sorry we don't have to ask you for consent, but you have so voted the law in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21275	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments to this bill. In Article 6(2), we request a supplement. So we ask that the procedure for the adoption of other general acts be the same as for the Rules of Procedure, which means that it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Serbian Parliament, because the National Assembly wants to interfere, wants to participate in the whole process, and we think there is nothing more important than that. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be the one who wants to control what is happening in Serbia and what, in some way, through the institute, which we are talking about here, could be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Corruption, crime and thieving must be pursued in every way. The only thing we have to choose funds for is to comply with the law and get the widest possible legitimacy and legality for it. We can't get a bigger confirmation than that if it's done right here and with the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since some representatives of the party, Boris Tadic, are not able to do anything else in their lives but to schedule shows without an SRS representative, so they turn this show into the most primitive and stupid attacks on Serbian radicals, I am obliged to just say that I am sorry that they are not here, because they would and how they would rebel over our amendments. I'm counting, they'd be the most affected because of all possible controls, because of everything they've been doing, from buying ficus for 45,000 dinars, and I don't know if you've seen it anywhere, so maybe we could ask some housewife if she knows it costs so much. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Belief of Radet, from the place: Of course not. Well, there is when Gilas and Sutanovac buy it, it's at least 45 thousand dinars. When they buy Tadic, Gilas and Sutanovac then a coffeespoon costs 650 dinars. They criticize ordinary people living in apartments or houses, and they live in some houses with solar panels. Did you see anyone have solar panels? Did you see that someone who boasts about paying taxes in Serbia has a car on some Great Lake Ontario, have you heard of that registration in Serbia and are driving such a car, the most expensive, of course, here in Belgrade. Is the state paying taxes or not? I didn't hear. Some who supported the capitulation and in 1999 sought and talked about how it was a chance for peace, democracy, I don't know what everything, what nonsense they said, and now they dared to talk about how some others were guilty of the Kumanic Agreement, of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan. They say, while their children died in Kosovo, and their children, through "orbit" gum to solar panels, have grown millions of euros and have done nothing else today and are among the richest in Serbia, and have found themselves salting their brains to Serbia and Serbian radicals. It's best for them when there's no one to answer them, and they've already made a nice deal with the people on TV, so by chance there's no one in the SRS, that something like that doesn't answer them. Boris Tadic says that what he thinks is the president of Serbia, and the president of Serbia is only because he has the biggest mirror in the presidency, because it was the most important and important detail, which he has had to do since he became president of the Republic and except for the fact that he has really received one prominent, greatest 'golman' on the globe of the Earth, Michel Platini – so besides those facts and problems he brought to the Serbian people, and said, "Albanians have the right to self-determination" – it would be good to deal with something else. I guess he reckons there's no one to answer him, and everyone's afraid of him, whether he's the security guard, whether he's the one who drives people away, so when they put them aside, when they barely survive like that unfortunate cymple, they put him behind bars. That's the one, you remember, that he wanted to do a big hit on the president of the state, everything from the U.S. Embassy. So, after all this stuff, we finally realized that it was all Serbian radicals. What to do, it's the president of the state, who boasts about it, although the president of the state is the opposition – the man has not read a single book, except, I don't know. Maybe he's reading "Commandant Mark", "Blaff", "Sad Owl," and I don't know maybe Alan Ford, but about justice, about the United Nations, international law, the international legal order obviously doesn't know anything. To break up with him. He's not as important as he thinks, although I can see he has one terrible, big complex – the SRS. I'm sure it'll torture him even more in the coming period. You'd do well to accept this amendment, because this kind of shovel with 45,000 dinars, a 650 dinar spoon, and pixels, imagine, pixels, or ashtrays, whatever you want, 5,000 dinars. Five thousand dinars of ashtrays! And if it's yellow, it's a lot. They stole a lot, so accept this amendment, start treating corruption, fight the thieves, and show Serbia that this is not our country's definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21277	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21278	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a moment I will use this pay phone. I'm not talking about the amendment. I'm talking about one announcement. Yesterday, Vladislav Kronic, Milorad Krstin and I visited flooded areas in southern Banat, ahead of the Serbian Parliament's Agriculture Committee. We have seen new built houses in Jasa Tomic that will be inhabited in a few days and have given a great commendation to the Serbian government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Capital Investments. But I didn't go out to praise that, and they took it up with them. They told us that before the water came, they picked up the cattle so they wouldn't get hurt and sold it to a slaughterhouse. They had an offer from the slaughterhouse in Zrenjanin 20% more expensive than they gave to the Banat Slaughter in Banatski Brestovac, which is three years in decline and does not work normally. They made a proposal to Slobodan Kosovar from the Regional Ministry of Agriculture. And that's what MPs need to know, it needs to know the public of Serbia, and they need to know the authorities of the prosecution. Daniel Petrovic, the Secretary for Agriculture of the Vojvodina Assembly in that part of South Banat, had to know that the slaughterhouse did not pay and that it was not good. He should not have let the already destroyed farmers, who suffered from the flood and the tribulation that God had given them, destroy them too. Daniel Popovic is a man of Social Democrats League Nenada Canka, who rules the Vojvodina, thanks to the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party has allowed them to rule, to rob and sell Vojvodina, to seek legislative, judicial and executive authority, to solve some problems that do not exist in Vojvodina, to have a state again, and they are shouting something anti-communist and against communism in Yugoslavia, and the only thing they ask of communism is the communist Constitution of 1974. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21279	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee, on the basis of Article 140(5) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 7. I apologize to the promoter, MP Radojko Obradovic accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Since the government has not declared itself, the amendment cannot immediately become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? He has the word of Ambassador Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21280	According to some logic, if the legislator adopts the amendment, the Legislative Committee declares that it is legal, and competent, in this case the Finance Committee, also accepts the amendment, then the amendment becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal. But since the legislator here is a member of the People's Parliament, the government's opinion is also needed. I'd like to point out some things about this law. This law has no constitutional basis. Evidence that there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law is contained in the very text of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the very text of the Constitutional Charter, in the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia provides for the possibility, in a future draft, of predicting and establishing the so-called constitutional category. Court of Auditors. This institution is not new in the Republic of Serbia. And in pre-war Yugoslavia, there was a Commission that was outside the Assembly, much closer to the Assembly than to the executive authority, which was about to exercise this control. However, what you must take into account in the vote, I call on you to reject this law in principle, because I cannot accept that this is the way MPs of the ruling parties are trampled by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is trampling. Why is this law not proposed by the Government or the Ministry of Finance, why this law is not proposed by someone else, but by one MP who has been elected to propose such a law, and then by the MPs of the majority to adopt it and suffer, there is democracy in the National Assembly. Even the draft laws proposed by the MP as an individual are passing. It's just a transparent game. Why didn't the parliamentary group suggest that? Why did not all MPs of the ruling parties propose this law? No, I don't. They chose Radojko Obradovic. The man isn't here today. He probably has no idea what this law is about. This is a failed translation of a law from a direct environment. So there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. It's going to meet, please, that whoever proposes this law a little bit of a barath to this matter. He would never write down the next sentence in the light of this law. You can see how the motionary explains the reasons for passing this law. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the fact that the establishment of the Supreme Auditing Institution is one of the key segments in the process of reforming the constitutional, legal and institutional framework. How can the constitutional framework be changed by law? I guess the Constitution gives rise to authority and a warrant for all other laws. This is where Radojko turned, here he has older law than the Constitution. There's a reason we're changing the constitutional system, how we're going to change it, let's go with the laws. Once we've passed all the laws, then eventually we'll take the Constitution and pick everything up from the law and insert it as some principle into the constitution of the future Republic of Serbia. I don't know how the Legislative Secretariat, how do these organs let this get to the MPs? Here Radojko Obradović says - I do not recognise the Constitution, I do not want to know about the Constitution, I am pushing the law that exists in Slovenia, Croatia and the environment. They got some agreement there to go to the EU, and here for two or three years they've been passing laws by system -- you can write everything, whatever you want, on paper, it's just enough to have some kind of chat, some wooden lawyer or what these people here in Brussels, like CESID, even if their OSCE activates more than Brussels, some lawyer's office or three or four law school professors, an economic college who sits down, makes two or three sentences, someone puts a seal there, and you have a cover that's on the trail of EU harmonisation, and inside nonsense. If someone thought he was going to meet a future solution to what the audit institution should look like, or an independent body that would control public finances and so on, he should not write this on page 2 of the reasoning. He says, "Status of the institution," we almost passed the State Administration Act, about civil servants. This law does not recognise and does not know that in the meantime some laws have been passed. Here's what's next. He says, "The status of the institution. The external audit operations represent new jobs in the state administration's system. This institution cannot be in the system of state administration. If it's in the system of the state administration, it's the ministry of the existing constitution. It's all messed up. You who vote for this law openly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I've shown you this media prank. Not the government, not the ministry, but they found an MP with some failed translation and here some expert who got his degree, probably waiting for a gutter next to a theater to drop his diploma, wrote everything and everything. This can't go on like this. The peak nebulosis is a member of 17. The bill, which says – Conditions for selecting members of the Council, says: "For a member of the Council may be elected a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who, in addition to the general conditions laid down by the law for the work in the state bodies, meets the following conditions: has a high school arrangement", and now goes one part that I am asking the amendment to delete, says: "A public economy expert and financial business in the public sector or other areas of importance for the exercise of the authority of the institution, rules in at least one world language". How can a world language be a condition? No translators are wanted here. And how is it in your practice when a public expert is recognised, economically and so on. Here is proof - the selection of the National Bank of Serbia Council. You chose a mathematician and introduced him here as a great expert in economics. He has no idea with the economy, he follows the statistics, some Kovacevic there. He was also the deputy director of the Department of Statistics. He's the only one, because a member of the SPO, by some parity, got in there, neither guilty nor due. Let me not tell you about the other experts you choose. Economic experts, they're big, and who determines who the experts are? Young Dinkic? What kind of expert is he? He's got nothing to do with the economy. What kind of experts are they? I wouldn't be surprised here if you said a man who smokes light drugs could be elected foreign minister. That's the one that, when they brought him in in 1993, said, "Give me one piece of white paper and a pen to write that I don't do politics anymore and then let him go and he breaks in Belgrade." That's the Wolf Draskovic. Now we've got another drug party, this Chadino. What are you prescribing as criteria? Who authorized you to change the selection criteria to some calling, to some place in the state administration system? This isn't where you're looking for a translator. What do we need an interpreter for? What luck we have with these people knowing foreign language, so they go abroad, get a warrant, so they apply it here. So is this Tadic. He heard something from abroad and now gives the national minority the right to self-determination. The man doesn't know there's a UN Charter, he doesn't know that there are international documents that regulate it, but he's advised by that clamp over there, that curly Gilas that man doesn't know. What does a machine gun know about law? What does he know about politics? He and Stajkovac were interns, students at Dobrica Cosic. How many Ćosic has made these images in Serbia? We'll talk about it on Sunday when the time comes. Take care. Inform Mr. Obradovic that this law is withdrawn, he has no constitutional basis. This law treats this, as you call it, institution, body, or part of the system of state administration. If it is a system of state administration, then it can only be the Ministry, and it can be some administration within the Ministry, something whose legitimacy comes from the National Assembly and is within a decent distance from the Assembly, to control both the Assembly and executive power and all others who spend public finances. It can't be done by this law. Under the state administration system, we have an authority that controls public finances. I don't like that solution, but I have to respect the law, there is such a law, a law on the budget system. There's a budget inspection that controls it in every municipality. Is that internal, whether external, that's another question. There is no constitutional basis for this institution, and the government is deeply aware that there is no constitutional basis, and therefore they have planted one MP, he is not here, he will not come, he is not interested in this, he just gave a name and a name. Of course, they accepted this amendment because it doesn't mean anything, because what you wrote -- "recognized expert," who's going to determine this expertise? Vuk Draskovic is determined by expertise, so to say, there are five members, then come on, most of them decide, one will be from the SPO. You see the risk taken. You know that there is an MP in the SPO Assembly, but he is a state official in Sweden. He's paid for every session to come here. He doesn't have anyone on the list anymore. Sweden, Denmark, I don't know. His travel expenses are 300 percent higher than those that come to the sessions. He's gonna get you some independent, big expert like that. How can Draskovic determine who the expert is? He has nothing to do with brains, he's a serial machine for banging nonsense. Take a statement, for 15 minutes he changes his statements. That's your partner. Take care. There is no sympathy, no antipathy, I warn you that it destroys the state, the structure of a state. Take care. The unconstitutional law will force you to push everything and everything into this here, and then you'll see what a dance will be like. You have a Council on Corruption, so you have a hard time with them. These "yellows" made a special court. There's all the drunks sitting there wondering that two years didn't complete the procedure. How do we complete the procedure? Who's the judge? Who wanted to have a big salary? These are the criteria that guide you. These are the essential criteria that exist. I'm against it, and that's why I filed this amendment. Of course, they couldn't wait to say -- let's just accept it, and then we'll tell the radicals that we've accepted all their amendments and you have to vote for this law. If we do not vote, then whatever these will. There is no expert who objects: "The amendment is deleted". There's a great philosophy about erasing it, except you don't want to understand it. You think you're gonna finish something. You won't finish anything. Talk to the people who apply these regulations of the National Assembly. You can't apply 70% of the rules. There's got to be 20-30 of you here who've been in the previous session and you remember that Schumartz, with the painted mustache, who said, "we're passing a law on planning and construction, and in a month everyone who meets the conditions gets building permits." For a year people have been waiting for building permits, for those who meet the requirements. He reported to Djindjic, now reporting to Tadic. Take care of what you do. The state's breaking up fast, but it's hard to make. Accept what we're looking for and withdraw this bill, because you're introducing even more chaos, as you've introduced with many laws that you've forcefully brought here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21281	The word has an MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21282	I'm sorry that my colleague Krasic is wasting all his energy here. Too bad he didn't use that energy to write a better bill. When it comes to the law currently on the agenda, believe that the Finance Committee has tried to hire all parliamentary groups, it has called on all MPs who are willing to engage and write as many better texts as possible. I'll remind you how this bill came into play. In fact, in more contact with some international organisations, we have come to the conclusion, we members of the Finance Committee, that it is necessary to pass a law that will in one unbiased way enable the control of public finances. The Committee on Finance was then consulted and we created a working group. I know that the initiator of all this was Rade Obradovic. I think he mostly worked on this legal project. I know very well, and so do the members of the SRS who are in the Finance Committee, that they are still invited to participate in the work. I think some MPs had a desire to participate. Unfortunately, something came up in that mutual communication, and one minute the members of the SRS stopped attending meetings of the Finance Committee, and then they stopped communicating on this law. As for Mr Veroljub Arsic's remarks that certain amendments to the SRS remained unadopted, and that similar amendments had been submitted by the Finance Committee, believe that the Finance Committee had also taken the opinion of the Republic Government, he also took into account some amendments that had arrived from the MPs and then set out with his amendments the text which is now before us. That may be why you have a similarity somewhere between the proposal from the Committee on Finance and the proposal from the Members who submitted the amendments. There's one more thing to remind you of. My colleague Krasic was very upset here, and I think we could hear it all when it was discussed in the principle of law. I must say that not all the amendments of the SRS have entered into the essence of the bill, but certain provisions have been trying to change their amendments. I must say, about 60-70% of the proposal that arrived from the SRS parliamentary group was accepted. This is the first legislative proposal to be passed. The reason why only one promoter, I think of one MP, was precisely the intention of members of the Finance Committee to be a parliamentary law, not that the entire parliamentary group or parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition stand behind it. I think it has given this greater freedom, and it has also given the promoter himself that, regardless of party membership, the quality of the proposal itself is respected and that it becomes an integral part of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21283	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21284	I answered because this topic is not about anxiety or excessive force that is unnecessarily used for something. You don't want to understand and that's the problem. There is no constitutional basis, and when there is no constitutional basis, there is no story. That's the central question. I've tried to give you a few reasons why I don't think there's any constitutional basis. The Crown Evidence is a proposal from the DS -- a foreplay of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where, in particular, within the head of the National Assembly, you provide a chapter called the Court of Auditors. The fact that it's an accounting court, it's this bill of law. So you admit there's no basis in the existing constitution and you're building a basis in some new draft constitution. That's the first big key reason. Secondly, you did not give your soul to that institution by this bill, nor did you place it in the system of government. If you don't have an ideological view, a concept, you're already throwing everything and everything, the way that comes to mind, then you have anarchy, you don't have a state, you don't have a system. So that no one would now interpret me as saying there is no control, I remind you, there are administrations and inspectorates within the existing authorities who are authorized and competent to exercise the control you think you give to this new institution. Call Mladjan Dinkic, get him out of all the budget inspection drawers, get him to start the proceedings, get him to do something. You keep pushing for the fight against corruption, and you have instruments and you don't give any results. If a man sits in the government, buys locomotives without a tender, so you argue with each other about it, don't ask us from the opposition to defend you. Why should I put myself on someone's side? Half the government says the law has been broken, half the government says it hasn't broken the law. Then the manites come to salt and he says everything's fine, it's not like this, it's not like that, the turkey picks don't work, it's been three days. Of course you're annoying the public. Now you think you're coming out of that galamatias with this law. "We have the law." So what if we have the law. I just told you, talk to any judge and they'll tell you that 70% of the new laws adopted by the National Assembly are not applicable. 50% of it can't be applied. Take the route Trade Court – Agency for Business Registers. The Supreme Court must give interpretation to both of us and to others what the legislator meant. That's what I'm talking about. The law can only pass once the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is passed, since there is no constitutional basis in the existing one. How are you going to fight crime? You have all the instruments, the levers of power. You have a budget inspection, you have a tax, you have the police, you have UBPOK. Don't fight corruption through the media. (President: You're out of time. I don't like fighting corruption through the media. You don't have to write anything in the media, let us know that a trial has been initiated against it and that ends within a certain period, but provide evidence for a normal procedure, not like Batic. It's not nice, Batic. Let's take the case against him. Give him a 5% price. With 00 something, it's now at 00.5. It's not working. (President: You're out of time. This is how you set Obradovic up, he pushed the law, the government calm, everyone calm. You're on the Finance Committee as something you've done, something you've done. What are you done with? As soon as you started working, you had Aligrudić. Is there any constitutional basis? Now you take more care of finances than anyone else. We all have to take care of our finances, but it has to be a legitimate path, it has to be in accordance with the Constitution, because you're going to pass the law and it won't apply. The broadcasting law was passed three years ago and not applied. You'll say we've passed the law and we've solved the area. You haven't solved it. That's how it's gonna be with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21285	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21286	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17 and I believe that my amendment is better than those two amendments that have been accepted and submitted by the MPs of the SRS. However, if my amendment was accepted in the voting day, the Legislative Committee would have to hold a session, to agree on opinions, etc. Since I don't want to make such a problem for my proposal, I'm giving up my amendment to Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21287	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21288	Ladies and gentlemen, this summer the Round Table was organized at the Sava Center where we had the honour of, unfortunately, a small number of four or five MPs, to get acquainted with all the proposals of the laws of the environment, Croatia, Slovenia, Canada, Russia, a total of a dozen countries that have shown their law which is a new thing for us, and which should certainly be supported, for reasons why, if we fight corruption, against crime, only this law can prevent crime and corruption. The bill proposed by Slovenia has indeed proved to be the best law that really needs to be supported, because according to Slovenia's model, this law is done. This is for us. Who is the legislator, this should not be taken into account at all, whether it is an MP or a parliamentary group – it is not important, it is important to say that so far we have not had this law. Of course, every check was done through the ministry, which means under very suspicious circumstances, so all the previous governments could focus on ministers, so there was no real control. Of course this institution is necessary for all countries in the world as well as for us, since we are the only country that does not have this law. Of course most amendments will not essentially change the law, but it is necessary to support this bill, because it is really necessary to prevent crime and corruption. I'll just say that many parties have advocated the verification of all privatisations, and I have to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as regards the revision and privatisation and in general the revision of all the users of the budget, should naturally do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21289	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21290	I'd like to ask the service to turn on the ventilation. There's something here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was coming to the assembly session, I almost got killed at the entrance. They opened the door, almost got kicked out of the cattle by MPs of the ruling coalition, pushed them into the stampede to get out. They adopted the agenda, the session started, and there were 30 left. Good thing I got away in time for them to pass. I have submitted an amendment to Article 17, where I request that part of Article 4 be deleted, that after the word "examination" be put into place the point and the rest of the text be deleted. Before I move on to the defense of the amendment, I'd like to say something about the very title of the law. It says - Bill on the State Audit Institution. First of all, "institution" is such a broad term that one institution can't be said for just an institution. The healthcare institution is an institution, but it's called a hospital. A cultural institution is an institution, but it's called a museum, a library. If you continue like this, what are you going to call district units, rural institutions, outcast wards? I don't think the title fits. Why am I asking for this section of Article 17 to be deleted? Item 4 says, "At least one of the members of the Council must be a graduate lawyer, with a passed judicial exam and a working experience in the affairs of the legal profession." You don't expect a lawyer to have experience in surgery or gynecology. The lawyer is a lawyer and his profession is a legal profession. His experience is legal experience, whether he works in the area of finance or works in court. The lawyer is a lawyer, and he doesn't have nine rights but one. It shows – a prominent expert. Where do you get a diploma for an expert and who verifies a diploma for an expert? That's how you introduced it -- an intellectual, an expert, and now it's a "recognized expert". Is there an expert who's unrecognized? What's the name of that unrecognized expert? Who shares a diploma for an intellectual, where there's a school where these diplomas are obtained? Are there any semi-recognizable experts, qualified and semi-skilled experts? Don't play around, it's about the law, which is going to hit all of us the next day. I suggest that in the voting day you adopt my amendment and delete this section. Maybe it'll look like something that can be read, that a man can read it without being disgusted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21291	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the chairman has gone over a few things lightly. First of all, you should give us an answer to which member of the Rules of Procedure you are, because I was really trying to find out in the last half hour, first read all the amendments submitted by the Finance Committee. There is no member of the Rules of Procedure which would allow such discrimination. All amendments, regardless of who submitted them, are under discussion solely in order of the members to whom they were proposed. So you cannot in this way fail to submit any parliamentary group, and this is not only about the SRS parliamentary group, but also about all the other MPs. So, first you read the amendments to the Finance Committee, and now you read the amendments to the MPs in turn. There is absolutely no basis for such a thing in this Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, first of all, to answer me by which member of the Rules of Procedure it was done. Furthermore, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia there is a principle, the National Assembly President, Mr Markovic, reportedly advocates the principle consistently, and this is the principle that we have here a representative of the legislator. Due to the fact that we had no proposing representatives, when it was the Government of the Republic of Serbia, paused on several occasions, sessions were interrupted until the proposing's presence was secured. I would remind, regardless of who the promoter is, whether it is the Government, whether it is a particular parliamentary group, or whether it is an individual - an MP, there is a duty to respect that principle, that we now have a representative of the promoter. Mr. Parivodić was just sitting here, and you doubted us to think that Mr. Parivodić, otherwise the minister, was the authorised representative of MP Radojko Obradovic, who officially put his signature as the legislator of this law. So, consult with your coalition partners, see who's here as an authorised proposalor or promoter, secure his presence, and then move on with this session. As for Article 19(2), which I have submitted an amendment to in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I think it was absolutely necessary to accept this amendment. It's a shame we don't have a proposing representative here. It cannot be said otherwise but that these are the phantom sessions of the Finance Committee, which, first of all, cannot be attended because of such a contrived Rules of Procedure as all MPs have adopted. I am not a member of the Finance Committee and the explanation that we have just received from the ruling coalition representative Slavoljub Matic, otherwise a member of the Finance Committee, that everyone could come to the Committee's session, so that they could possibly advocate some changes and participate in writing this law, they are completely inappropriate. It is known how the National Assembly works, even in this Rules of Procedure, which, I repeat, you brought. So you cannot oblige all 250 MPs to attend all the committees, it is physically impossible, because several committee sessions are held at the same time. So maybe at the time we were on the Justice Committee, where I was a member, so I had an obligation to attend there, or on some other committee. Or, at the very least, a session of the National Assembly, which you will acknowledge, incomparably more important than the board's session, and you cannot tell me that because I did not attend the Committee on Finance, the Committee will not take into consideration my amendment and will not accept it for that reason. You cannot only look at whether an MP is present at a session of the Finance Committee, because I am certainly not bound by it, and the Finance Committee is, according to the Rules of Procedure, that any amendment, whether or not the Proposer is there, takes into consideration, and that he understands what the essence is. Obviously, the representatives of the Finance Committee didn't understand. These amendments we have submitted, we have not submitted because of the Finance Committee, we have tolerated them for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are trying to fix these laws, not to make the plezir Radojko Obradovic or Slavoljub Matic or any other member of the Finance Committee, but to submit amendments exclusively to improve the laws for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, I would ask you not to deal with such, in the future, extremely inappropriate things, such as the copying of amendments submitted by the SRS MPs, and then their acceptance, which is evidence of top cynicism and evidence that our amendments are extremely high quality, only you were bothered to accept 10 amendments to the SRS, and after a week, since we submitted them, you said: now, in the same text, we will submit them as the Committee on Finance, then we will accept them, and refuse amendments to the SRS and thus solve the problem. This is really not the way the congregation should function. You could have accepted these amendments, and it was a completely unsettling explanation of the chairman's first reading of the Committee on Finance's amendments, because this is about text changes. What changes are there in our amendments rather than text? What else can change in the amendment than text. The text of the amendment is changed, the text of the law. That's what we do. We don't do, I don't know what else. The amendment is just a text change of a certain member of the law, thus improving a certain law. So, by no means different, it is not, as Slavoljub Matic said, about similar things, it is about identical amendments. Admit what you did. I'll explain the amendment I filed. Therefore, it refers to Article 19(2), which states: "A member of the Council cannot participate and decide in the audit procedure, if he has been employed by a person who has been subject to an audit or has performed certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, if since the termination of that employment or the completion of the work has not been completed for the past two years". The amendment, which I have submitted, suggests that the words "have not been replaced in the past two years" with the words "has not been five years". So, we in the SRS think that this period of two years is extremely short, if it is considered that in certain companies, when larger jobs are carried out which must be subject to the review procedure, they are carried out through a longer period of time. And, if it's big companies, or audit entities, then it's not enough for someone who worked there to be a participant in a particular entity's audit process after two years. In this way, we can come into a situation where a particular entity is doing certain tasks over a long period of time, for many years, to then be employed in this unfortunate state audit institution and that I have been reviewing certain affairs in which he may have participated, that is to say, in which people he worked with until yesterday, maybe he was their boss, maybe he was subordinated to them, there can certainly be extremely close links between those people who won't break up for a period of two years. It is absolutely unacceptable for someone involved in certain affairs to later be involved in the control of these affairs. So, if you already want to fight crime and corruption, the first and basic principle you have to apply is to make a certain time distance and that people who participate in certain jobs cannot later, as members of the state audit institution, audit certain entities' business. Given that a good part of this law refers precisely to the choice and conditions for selecting members of the Council, you say that, in addition to these conditions that we are trying to tighten, it must be recognised by an expert. You've put these so-called so-called laws in a lot of laws. Recognised experts, but we still don't know who it is who recognizes someone's expertise in a particular area. Given the fact that in every new law, you form an agency or an institution, or some new body, which only allows you to entangle your political and party-like personnel, you determine their huge salaries, and then they don't return it to the citizens of this country in any way, except that the administration builds up, the only thing we can expect from you is that. Will you perhaps form an agency that will be involved in recognising the expertise of certain of your staff? So who is he and what is the procedure by which the expertise of this or that will be determined, so that he may meet the conditions, that he may be recognized as an expert in a given field? For all things, I really ask you to ignore the fact that these are amendments to the SRS, that they are of quality and that they are required in law. This is clear to us from what you've copied, so as amendments to the Finance Committee, you've accepted it. So, because of the citizens of Serbia, please do not play, admit well that the amendments are good and accept them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21293	Mr. Arsic, are you looking for an amendment? You'll get your word, just to answer Mr. Sarovic. Not all amendments to the Finance Committee went ahead, but amendments where non-specific members of the law were requested to correct the text of the bill. Technically, it wasn't possible otherwise than to put it ahead. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Based on what member of the Rules of Procedure? I'm telling you there's no interference in the Rules of Procedure to go like that, and technically there's no other way to do it. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: When Mr. Arsic is finished, I ask for a word. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21294	Ladies and gentlemen, when the amendment tabled by Nemanja Sarovic on behalf of the SRS is looked at, it is evident that the proposed legislative solution is extremely bad. Therefore, a member of the Council may not participate and decide in the audit procedure if he has been employed by a person who is subject to an audit or performs certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, if he has not been in the past two years since the termination of that employment and the completion of the work. Just to remind MPs that according to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, the deadline for keeping documents related to the tax procedure and tax administration is five years. The amendments and additions to the law have increased the time limit for keeping tax documents to ten years. If it is looked at in Article 11, who are all audit entities – direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic, territorial autonomy and local authorities, etc., NBS, public enterprises etc., whether or not it can happen and certainly be the governor of the NBS, does not like this job and becomes a member of the Council of the Supreme Auditing Institution, so after two years it can exercise its own control of its business, or how it has performed its duties while the governor of the NBS. The deadline should be increased to five years, as proposed by this amendment, as it is assumed that in five years someone else will probably do the audit process and determine whether the official of a state institution, the beneficiary of the budget, etc., will operate in accordance with the law. These are the reasons why this amendment needs to be accepted. In any case, the SRS does not write amendments just to conduct discussions here, but to correct the texts of the law. The idea of an institution like this isn't bad, but the problem is that you make a good idea a bad law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21295	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21296	Mr. Mihailovich, I asked you to tell me on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure you previously read the amendments of the Finance Committee, and then the amendments of all the other MPs? So, the rule is contained in Article 141 where it is said: "The search in particular is carried out by the members to whom amendments and oamands are submitted, which are proposed to introduce new provisions, with a total amount of time... "and so on. So that's what the basic rule is. You have broken that rule and I ask you, on the basis of which member of this Rules of Procedure have you done it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21297	On the basis of Article 140(5), So, in the time between the completed principled search and the opening of the draft law, the committees in particular can submit amendments to the draft law. So they are authorized to endure it, and the article you read does not show that there must be the order you represent. I have no other explanation, other than to tell you, if you are not satisfied with the answer, that in the voting day the Assembly will declare whether or not the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21298	Mr Mihailovic, Article 140, paragraph 5, which you have called upon, says: "In the time between the completed principled search and the opening of the draft law in particular, the committees responsible can submit amendments to the bill." It means exactly what it says and it's not controversial. I do not dispute the possibility for the Committee on Finance to submit an amendment to this law, but what I am arguing to you is this which determines Article 141(1), which says: "The particulars are being searched by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed by the introduction of new provisions". So, according to the members, Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, Article 5, and all amendments submitted to Article 1, and to Article 2, and we had a case before that that even three amendments had been submitted to Article 17, so we discussed the amendment submitted to Article 17(2) and Article 17(4) and another amendment submitted to Article 17(4). It is not disputed whether or not the Finance Committee can submit an amendment. Here, I admit it can. That's what Article 140 paragraph 5 refers to. I ask you, on what basis did you first discuss the amendments submitted by the Finance Committee to all the members, and then you returned to discuss the amendments submitted by the MPs from the beginning? You cannot, by any means by the Rules of Procedure, separate amendments submitted by the MPs and amendments submitted by the Finance Committee. So, please tell me on what basis did you separate the amendments submitted by the Committee on Finance and Amendments submitted by the MPs? Mr. Mikhailovich, I think it's clear to you here that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, and I don't know why it's so terrible to admit that the Rules of Procedure has been broken. So the more you try to explain something that's impossible to explain, you're actually getting deeper and more involved in this Rules of Procedure. So, admit it, this is extremely simple – say it's a mistake, nobody here will judge or judge you about it, human sin is, but it's also human and admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21299	Mr. Sarovic, let me remind you first that I told you that the Committee on Finance in those first three amendments did not specify the members and that technically it had to be done like this. Your claim that the amendments of the Finance Committee are separate and the first debated is also not true, because the Finance Committee, you will see, it has its amendments and later, you have an amendment to Article 42 and others that have submitted, which will only come. There are specific members and they have entered that order. I really don't have another explanation, and I said, I repeat, in voting day, the assembly will declare it. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21300	Of course the amendment is legal, but the problem is that Article 20. The bill is not legally possible. Here, now you'll hear why. Article 20(1) says: "The president, vice presidents and members of the Council elects and resolves the Assembly, most of the votes of the total number of MPs, on the proposal of the Assembly's competent working body. "and so on. In Article 80. The constitution of Serbia is said to "the National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs, if the Constitution does not provide for a special majority". Since this institution is not designed at all by the Constitution, of course, neither is the choice of the President of the Constitution, there is no specific way and it is not possible for the election to be made by a majority of the total number of MPs, but according to the Constitution it must be "of the total number of MPs". So, an amendment that is completely logical and correct, legally introduces Article 20 into the frameworks of the Constitution. If you were to adopt this amendment and others relating to the unconstitutional nature of some of the provisions of these laws, then at least you would have a constitutional bill. But, of course, it's obviously irrelevant to you. When I read this law, the bill and the reasoning, since I had an amendment to Article 20, I look at the reasons on page 13, Articles 17, 18, 19 and 20 – the conditions for selecting a president, vice president, etc. I turn around, I see article 17 – conditions for selecting members of the Council. Article 18 — Incompatibility of functions. Article 19 — Unauthorized relations between the holders of functions and the audit entity. I see, there's something going on here. The election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Council shall only take place from Article 20. I'm going on and watch miracles. Says article 66 prescribes that, too. Article 67. That's what the bill says. Then I turn the law around. The law has 65 members. A miracle unseen. Which are two members who have been deleted or written somewhere with some invisible ink, which Boris Tadic will sign in agreement with Kostunica when the law leaves here. What are the two members we're going to see in the official messenger when you adopt the law and when it's published? Gentlemen, these are very serious things. This is such a hoax that it's just not normal. If my colleague Obradovic and the MPs who accept and approve, and who will vote for this law, it might be good, they hired this person from Article 17, although Mr Krasic spoke about this someone who would be in this institution, and he must rule in at least one world language, e, if they had already hired that person who rules the world language, then it would probably not have been such a mistake, but it would have been a better translation, so it would not have happened more members in the reasoning, but in the very text of the law. I think you will accept this amendment, because I don't see that there is anyone who could oppose this argument and this logic followed by this amendment. It would be best if his colleague Obradovic, who isn't here today, was he at the quorum, if Momo saw him in that stampede when they went out? So this law needs to be withdrawn. It's not good. The question is whether or not we need him as well as he's supposed to, because we have the prosecution institutions and the law enforcement bodies, and courts, and all these institutions could do what's provided for in this law. They could, of course, and they should work. Now, why aren't they working, that's a question we should talk about with the government's representatives, getting involved in jobs where they shouldn't interfere, in the work of independent and independent state bodies. Of course, there should be, as you say, an institution that would finally tell the citizens of Serbia who stole those six billion, which Djindjic promised, which Djindjic's government took, to explain what Mr. Vukic was asking here today, what would happen to a figure of between 450,000 and 500,000 dinars, what would happen to a spoon of 650 dinars, what would happen to all these affairs and the thieves of Tadic's Democrats, who were spoken of a year, a year and a half ago. (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: and Dan's burgers at the fair? ) These are all the consequences of the coalition. These are all the consequences of this unprincipled coalition, a coalition where everyone has each other's backs, and while they're watching each other's backs, they're stealing their pardons. It is high time for the competent state authorities to address the problem of crime and corruption in Serbia, starting with the highest peaks of government. Let us not be distracted by the adoption of some new laws, some institutions, etc., but rather by allowing existing institutions and state authorities to do their job. If you are already thinking of proposing such or similar laws, at least try to find a constitutional basis in the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Don't pass laws that you know in the beginning that anyone who submits to the Constitutional Court can, however, not have a court, so use the opportunity until you have the Constitutional Court to pass a law like this. But also to function without the Constitutional Court, and we know that as the liquid of democracy. It was both at the time of that DOS and at the time of this DOS. Why do you need a court, why do you need laws? Yesterday, the day before yesterday, when that minister of yours said, this law is so bad that we're going to change it, so it can be freely broken, that some minister thinks it's bad, and even until it changes, it's a bad law for him, and we've had it, seen from the time of Gusa Knezevic, when he said the law didn't come into force, it doesn't exist, but it does. So, you've come to understand so strangely these principles of democracy and parliamentaryism that it's really amazing. And how much you hold onto the institutions and why you give this sound name to this audit institution, tells the fact that yesterday this session couldn't be held, that we couldn't work because you didn't allow the quorum, because today you just came to enable the quorum and you went out. So you don't respect institutions, you don't respect the law, you don't respect the Constitution, you don't want to oppose crime and corruption in Serbia, and that's the only truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21301	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21302	Regardless of the fate of the amendment, and above all, when I mention the fate of this amendment, I mean the position of the promoter, whether he accepts it or not. The amendment seeks what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now, since there are new MPs here, just to warn you this isn't the first time he's made a mistake. I'll remind you that for the first time, the slightly larger DOS than 18, 19, made a mistake when it incorporated a similar provision into the Broadcasting Law. It concerned the election of members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council where some kind of qualified majority was sought. It's down to 126, which is original and now stands in the motion that this article should look like 20. Proposal for a law, in point 1. To get out of this situation, to join the entire chain of changes and additions to the Law on Broadcasting, the DS has even come up with a variant that they submit a proposal to resolve some members, so when the discussion is over and probably the one who submitted the motion for resolution will probably vote for his proposal. The DS did not vote in favour of its proposal, so it created a counterweight, where their previous election, which was supposed to have been controversial. You from the DSS and the G17 plus know, because in the media at the time, you were particularly complaining, and you'll remember that choice also refers to that famous vote from Bodrum. All of this was made possible by one member of the Law on Broadcasting, completely identical to Article 20(1). Mrs Radeta has tabled an amendment requesting that Item 1 in terms of the election be brought into line with the appropriate provision, I believe she is a member of the 80s. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, that is not the only problem in this article. There's something about this article that's insolent, which is the final position of that member. It is said, "After the election, the President, the Vice-President and members of the Council take an oath before the Assembly, which takes office." Now, folks, listen to what this oath of these experts says. "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia." What does that mean, I don't know. "I promise to obey the Constitution and the laws." I guess that's Velya and Wolf and everyone who swore here. See for yourself how they respect the Constitution and the laws. "I swear by honor." We have these two insolent ones, who signed their oath in church, and then escaped from the party. Gone. This one went to Tadic, since the neighbours are in Lazarevec, and who knows where he is, with the brothers of Karic. In church, he swore an oath. Why do you enter the text of an oath for those who are not even officials? They're in the system of state administration, as you wrote in your explanation. If you go by that logic, all those in the system of state administration should take an oath. Then, as you now call it, that secretary of state, the assistant minister, the secretary of the ministry, the head of the department, the secretary of a department, every manager will need to take an oath, because he's in the system of state administration, and these people are in the system of state administration. Please, an oath is a category prescribed by the Constitution and only those officials representing an authority, such as the President of the Republic or members of the Government, subject to the obligation to take an oath, a solemn statement. If you take an oath so far and so wide, then you will ask for an oath from the one who works in the receiver. They'll probably ask for loyalty from the one who works in the kitchen, not to pass as a Martian three years ago, three months ago, he couldn't recover. Be careful what you bring into the law. Be assured that this law will have an incomparably worse fate than the Broadcasting Law. The broadcasting law was passed in 2002, I think, several times changed. Several times, the council came as a topic of the National Assembly, it always opens up, sometimes because of that 9, some time because of half or a third, some time because of the length of the mandate, some time because of that draw when the choice, when they put on those pills, so Markovic is spinning around that aquarium and pulling out. Why are you doing this? I guess you're stronger by one experience, so you have a negative experience with the National Educational Council, as I see it. For a year and a half, we couldn't choose that advice, by your law, not us from the opposition, but you from the government couldn't choose members. You keep going with the bad solutions. You're aware of the bad solutions. It means you're doing it on purpose. Why? Did you and the DSS have a fight with Junior, since he's using finance now, so you'd like to control it a little bit like this. Sit down and make a deal. If this government of yours has a program, some ideology, some connective tissue, has three points around which you've tied up, but you don't have any points other than the dot – sits in the chair, be in power, suffers all this on the side. I know you DSS basically eat when you hear Vuk Draskovic. What that guy can do to you has no idea, but he's attributed to you, you're taking the risk. You're collateral damage to his nonsense. You can imagine, putting someone from the SPO into this, it's going to be a ridiculous Olympics. They even pick up rackets on burgers at the Fair, where that Trpkovic is. They don't have anyone to run for office. They must have people from the embassy who are some MPs constantly transporting here until they introduce this video vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21303	Time, Mr. Krassic. Mr. Jojic, is it according to the Rules of Procedure, because 15 minutes are up and I warned Mr. Krasic about it? You want to do business? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to understand the promoter and to understand the MPs, I would ask the chairman to inform us that they are in this text of the law, because I do not understand, written in an explanation, on page 18 of this proposal, Articles 66 and 67. If this law has 65 members, so that the Assembly may decide and that MPs may make any certain objections, I propose that the chairperson invite the speaker to come before the MPs and declare which members he thought of and which law, when he wrote in an explanation, members who do not prescribe anything in this law at all and are not intended to do so. On the other hand, when it comes to the bill, I would just like to remind, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has thousands of taxpayers who charge taxes and only 27 budgetary inspectors who need to control the budget and public spending in the Republic of Serbia. Just one example. Panchevo Municipality's budget is two billion and 300 million. There's no money. The SRS members are asking for a meeting of the Assembly that the president of the Assembly, since he is responsible for the budget, submits an account and report to the committees and tells them where the money has been spent. Either someone removed them or kept them somewhere in the bank, or they were spent, but the citizens of Pancheva don't know where the money is. That's why we called on the republican budgetary inspection to come, to determine and inform the public where the money of the Panchevo municipality's budgets are. It is unacceptable that 27 budgetary inspectors are not sent to the field to check, and we have about 6,000 employees in the tax institutions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who charge taxes. Now, please, something's wrong. We can't agree on that. While I am still behind the pay phone, if the chairman allows me, I would remind the government of the Republic of Serbia of the disastrous state of the citizens of the Pancheva municipality who die every day, hundreds of them in the week, look at the obituaries in the local list "Pancevac", without the government and the current government taking any measures. It is known that the southern industrial zone, built by the Republic of Serbia in the Pancheva municipality, so far in the city centre, does not take any measures: the Refinery, Azotar, Petrochemia, which are poisoning the Pančecs. You have the most cancer patients in Pancheva. You remember we passed four environmental laws. Ladies and gentlemen, you're making a thousand laws, but these laws don't apply. That's the problem. A city of 130,000 people is dying. To make evil bigger, the Republic inspectors and the Ministry of Environmental Protection say they can't identify who the polluter is. They have three factories, and three instruments cost 20,000 euros and no one is doing anything. The competent authorities shall not take any measures. They know it's poisoning Azotar, Petrochemy and Rafinery. Years ago, 35 years ago, how these industries in that city live and produce poisons for citizens, and yet no one has been charged with criminal or criminal charges. The laws on ecology, even the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, envisioned a crime that pollutes the environment that causes death. (President: Please bring the end, time is up.) That's why I think it's time for the government to help this dying city. These days people started moving out of Vojlovica and that part of the southern zone where Sodar and Topola were settlements. It's a disaster. You cannot open a window. No one's answering. Yesterday, state television said the republican inspector said he could not identify the polluter. It's a lie. That's the situation in that town. I was forced to take a few minutes to tell you what the citizens of Pancheva can't stand. The kids are dying of cancer, the most registered cases we have in this town. Citizens stop me every day. What can I do? Here, I will ask that question in the Serbian Parliament. I guess the Prime Minister will hear, the president of the assembly and the competent ministry, and I guess he'll do something about it, finally. Let the law enforcement authorities see if they too are obliged to protect citizens' interests on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21305	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee, on the basis of Article 140(5) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 20. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21306	With this amendment, we ask that the first word "six years" in Article 21 be replaced by "four years". It is a member who prescribes the length of the term of office of members of the Council. It reads: "The Council member is elected for a period of six years", and we propose "four years". Why do we suggest four? In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, only two places have a time-limit: when it comes to MPs, when it comes to government -- there is a four-year deadline, and when it comes to the President of the Republic -- his term of office takes five years. So, if this one, as you say "institution", doesn't mean anything, but since the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the word "institution", I can't say anything other than a generic term for anything that looks like an organ with two or more members, everything has become an institution, so the Council of Ministers has become an institution, and probably the Government of the Republic of Serbia will eventually be just an institution, nothing more. If Obradovic planned to move it a little further away from the Assembly and quite further from the executive authority, then we see no reasonable reason why a term of office would be six years. If someone believes that through the length of the mandate he can prevent, possibly, illicit influences on members of the Council, he has made a huge mistake. Why did he make a mistake? Whoever chooses, he solves. You understand that. If all of this goes through like this, why should the next year the government of the SRS suffer members of the Council that you chose, especially the Vuks or Karics. However, the chairman, you did not answer a few questions that came from this pay phone – what should we do if Karic submitted an amendment to the article. 66th and 67th. The bill, these two members that don't exist? The bill promoter doesn't know how many members of the law there are, and you're asking us for some precision. What if Karic is stuck to submit an amendment to article 67 or this neighbour of Tadic in article 66, how will you do? You'll say "an amendment is not allowed". Why? "Because there is no member," and the proposer, in his explanation, is calling for that member. You have to appreciate the National Assembly as an institution. So, with this different regulation of the length of the term of office, you don't achieve what you wanted. That influence is impossible to avoid. That kind of influence exists in the NBS Council. The NBS Council is a supervisory body that, making diaries, good wages and those fees, will accept everything Jelasic does. To resolve someone there, it's a complicated procedure, it's impossible. As an official election promoter, you have signed up the committee responsible, and this is the Finance Committee. That's two and a half years from now. So two and a half years ago, it began with the idea that the auxiliary body, the working body of the National Assembly, would be a pronoun. Then it's already started as an infection in both the broadcasting and the other organs formed under individual laws. You go, the Finance Committee – the Proposer and everything in the Finance Committee ends. You remember how quickly Cora Udovici was inserted. You G17 probably remember. She's younger because of the new law, a new law has been passed, Bogdanovic sat down, a beat-up, and Kori Udovicki. It was two or three months, half a year, and then there were severe irregularities during her election, etc. You haven't learned a lesson from a negative experience, you're repeating it. So it's not your goal to solve this, it's your goal to complicate things, not to resolve these things. How does that aphorism in "Great Serbia" say, "How do we narrow down corruption to narrow circles? "Yes, we narrowed it down to government circles. That's where she's legalized. I'm just reminding you, when you formed this government, I told you that it was interestingly divided into six groups, six closed groups. You failed to deny me, but you confirm what I said then, and then you challenged. Now I tell you again, withdraw this law. If you think that with a term of six years, you can prevent illegal influences on the advice of this institution, you can probably convince someone who is naive, who follows this transmission and says "see that poor Kostunica, he would really like no one to influence for six years". People, it's not like that, it's influenced by members of that council. And that advice will choose your people, not to resolve the issue of public finances, but to keep it quiet. You always have an institution to keep quiet. None of your newly formed institutions have solved the problem, but we have a government that doesn't want to rule, we have ministers who don't want to be responsible. We're gonna do this to the Agency, we're gonna do this to the Directorate, we're gonna do this to the Bureau, and there's an EU seal, they've given consent. Natasa Kandic is pleased, she's quiet, she's happy. That's how you rule. You don't really want to rule. You cooperate and actively contribute to the destruction of the state and institutions, one, the other, the third, because if you wanted to strengthen the state, society, economy, you would never do this kind of thing. Call your Junior Dinkic, take it from the budget inspection, and I'm sure the budget inspection in Nis is due to your local rivalry there, the Democratic Party, one, second current, DSS, G17, New Serbia, because I know what your structure is – you're looking for a report and you'll probably get five kilos of material with terrible crime for the past eight years, during the democratic government in the city of Nis. You have this, why don't you show it, if you really want to fight crime and you want state resources to be used purposefully, etc. Now it is clear to all of us that the Public Procurement Act was not brought in to introduce order in public procurement, but to satisfy the form of someone's essence, so it will be completed by Belgrade, then a basic contract of two million, and with annexes at 200, all legal, restrictive procedure, you sought there for three years for some to not be able to compete. So you don't want to solve it. You're putting a six-year term in that story for members of the Council. The next year, when we come to power, if you choose them in the meantime, we'll get rid of them immediately. Since you're so many proponents of expertise and expertise, why didn't you call the competition and get them to apply for a contest to choose the experts. You're not going to do that, 'cause you can fly a guy who's not like him, so he's going to make a gift-mar. They had Covic when it's hard, and they have Trpkovic when it's due to suffer. So, a broken idea, it's not honest, you don't want to regulate this, you want to brag about how you have organs, how someone else is in charge, everyone's in charge and nobody's in charge. That's where the fucks swim, those Andric fucks. Those fuckers have been swimming around here for a long time, that's what this is all about. For a time of change, for a time of change, for a party, for a job. These are the people who are similar to all the regimes, they're going to throw you members of this council. You have people in the government who are incapable of being professors and professors in college, and here are the successful ministers. What can they do with this advice? Your six-year term is the only guarantee. That's not true. Find me on the basis of which regulations, based on which comparative practices, on which provisions of the Constitution you plan to give someone a term of six years, with the possibility of choosing twice. It would be a disaster, a 12-year-old man to be a member of the Council. In the first year, he's going to play a little bit, like they're doing something serious, and then when they do, you're going to see what public finances are like and what's going to happen. The idea is not mature, there is no constitutional basis. Based on your experience since you've been in power, the previous ones, and even the former ones, these solutions can't pass. This is invaluable with us. Remember the choice of members of the Broadcasting Council, at least four times we chose them and resolved them. You gave something identical, only you didn't say it was your first choice at three, four, but you gave the command. You swore on that advice from the National Bank of Serbia. Is he doing something now? Do you remember the jurisdiction of this council? There's no jurisdiction. He adopts an annual report, a financial plan, a final account, the governor has with the vice governors of the college, he finishes the job. He goes to an IMF officer, he tells him that, and that, he comes out here, he declares it the end of the story. We don't want that kind of power. Maybe you don't like Serbian radicals because of it, maybe they're primitive and simple, they don't know anything, how he said they didn't finish school, so let's make it your main argument, but give it some facts, move the dust to see what the point is. There's nothing to argue with us. You're aware of the completely wrong path, you're aware of that, but you want it on purpose, because it's not your job to advance this country, to improve the state, your goal is to swim a little bit on this wave as long as you're alike and, here, at a time when much more important topics are rounding up our public, environment and abroad, we get draft laws that don't have constitutional basis. Serbia's political life is unfortunately not in the Assembly and this is the long-term problem of this nation and this country. The political life of this country is located in some towers, halls, budzaks, on some televisions, Ustasha's ballots in downtown Belgrade, not in the National Assembly where everything needs to be discussed in public. It's a small number of those who came out here to talk about something in accordance with this law. They couldn't tell where the constitutional basis for this law was, they couldn't find it, he's gone. Call the Proposer and let him find members of 66 and 67 in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21307	The word has the People's MP Istvan Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it takes patience to hear the same thing over and over again about this law. It's happening again. I don't know which time there's no constitutional basis. That's not true. What is not forbidden by the Constitution is allowed and anyone who has graduated from law school knows that. Secondly, here it is constantly potentiating whose organ it will be, that it cannot be independent, must be under some hat of the National Assembly, etc. I don't know how long we're gonna have these discussions. We also have a problem with the judiciary because the judges choose the National Assembly. There is no independent judiciary as long as the courts are either under the influence of the executive authority, or under the influence of the legislative authority. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: How shall we choose them? You know how to choose. Take a passport and travel around the world, you'll see judges elected in other countries. The Court of Auditors, which exists in all Western countries, is also known to be an independent body, that there is no influence on such an institution, neither legislative nor executive power. This institution must be independent. If we have a court budget, if this parliament has its own budget, it is unlikely that some inspection, from some ministry, will control how the court budget or the budget of this parliament is spent. There's no such thing as a possibility. There must be an independent body to control the judicial and judicial budget. I don't know why you don't accept such solutions. That organ must be independent. Without it, there is no rule of law, without it there is no democratic way of working in all these institutions. I would ask you to accept this law, regardless of the amendments that have not been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21309	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21310	Mr. Chairman, just to point out one thing, something about logic is wrong here. Honestly, it doesn't say anything in the Constitution – it's forbidden to kill a man. Read the entire Constitution and you will see that there is no such provision. But if a man is killed, the killer is punished. Everyone knows that ban exists and that ban is in some criminal law. So if you go with that logic that something is not possible only if it's forbidden by the Constitution, then we're wrong about the subject we're talking about. It is known, Articles 70, 72 and 73. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides frameworks of competence for which the Republic is responsible. You have well noticed and confirmed what I have said, in the constitutional and legal systems of some states, beginning in France, etc., there are, but in the Constitution, provisions on the Court of Auditors and on the basis of these provisions, the Law on the Court of Auditors is adopted, and constitutional provisions are prescribed by the composition of the Court of Auditors, the term of office, etc. It's all in the constitutions of the surrounding states. I'll take an example of France. It was all beautifully written by the DSS in its draft new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In his explanation, he said that. But we have no constitutional basis for the Court of Auditors, etc., we have no control. What happened to someone pushing Radojka Obradovica to file a bill and now everyone's acting, it's some MP, etc., and you're going to push here to bring it. You know there's no constitutional basis for that. Now you go out here and you convince us, so everyone knows it – what is not forbidden is lawful. There's no provision in the Constitution on the murder of a man, and it's forbidden. These are some things that need to be taken care of. You invite us to vote, we have tried amendments to distract you that this law has no constitutional basis. I fully agree with you – an independent, expert body, which controls. I especially like what you said about the Assembly having its own budget, about the judiciary having its own budget, and we've been saying it for three years. Have you seen the new draft budget for 2006, is there a special judicial budget? No, I don't. Then why are you telling us this? Is it possible that MPs in power, government, ministries, change the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, bring and propose new regulations, and do not communicate with each other, so that these regulations are harmonised. I support everything you've said, but just answer my question why didn't your Junior put in a special judicial budget? Why doesn't the Assembly have its own special budget? Don't talk to us from the opposition now. We don't realize it's supposed to be an independent expert body, so I don't suppose the IRS or some budget control court. I agree with you, but why didn't your Junior predict a judicial budget? (President: Time.) ) If the younger one had predicted a judicial budget, to see that there was some continuity, an idea of how to settle, perhaps they would have changed their mind about some technical solutions. But you're honoring us for something you didn't want to do. You're inconsistencies. Here you can see exactly: Obradovic, the Finance Committee and the Ministry of Finance, did not agree on this law at all. The Justice Department, the Treasury, did not agree on the law. The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and Radojko Obradovic did not speak at all, according to these solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21311	You're over a minute. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 21. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 21. Proposal for a law on the state audit institution. That amendment requires that Article 21 be deleted. It's a bill of law. Why? The competence of the State Auditing Institution is to plan and carry out the audit, adopt sublegal and other acts to implement this Act and, secondly, that the subject of a review of public income and expenditure is in accordance with the rules on the budgetary system, financial reports and, in particular, the emphasis, financial transactions, accounting, analysis and other records and information. If they're the subject of a review of public income, if they're receipts that are made without public presence, cameras, journalists, of course, I know you thought, I know that, when it comes to public income, that they're public incomes, given public spending, that they're budget funds. I'm a little bit of a cartoon here for a reason, given that these receipts take place in opposite flows, so that instead of public receipts, secrets of receiving public funds happen. That's what hurts us Serbian radicals. This is what we in the SRS criticise and cite a series of examples of such behaviour by many state officials in power. If we take into account audit entities, direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, organisations, political parties, etc., whether the Council of State Audit Institutions or the institution itself will carry out a check on financial transactions of certain parties that are in power, which are parliamentary in this assembly, the parties receiving certain financial resources from the French government of 399,000 euros, or were carrying out financial transactions through HVB banks. If the state audit institution takes such a step, of course it will fulfil its task. I personally doubt that, and I don't think that's going to happen at all. Why is knowledge of foreign language sought for a member of the Council of the Institution? Will you perhaps be tasking this member of the Council to translate foreign literature from the financial area, will you instruct a member of the Council, vice president, of course, and president of the Council, among the people of the IMF, the World Bank, the London, the Paris Club, to learn how to work here? We know exactly how to do it, the simplest thing is fair, by law, rational, thrifty. These are the basic principles and principles to be followed by state officials, ministers and others. Unfortunately, this is not in abundance, at least in most cases, in the behaviour of today's government members and other civil servants. Will the institution, in accordance with Article 10(1), point (2), as well as Article 11(1) point (10), carry out certain business controls? Whether to exercise control of financial transactions regarding the availability of TV advertising rights to certain DS companies Dragan Gilas, who is the director of some kind of National Office, or the Ericson affair, which you know is behind it by Miroljub Labus, president of the G17 Plus. Whether the state audit institution will exercise control and audit of the financial transaction of depositing foreign and dinar funds at the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow for the establishment and recapitalisation of the National Savings Bank with state money, through the invented offshore companies specifically, name and last name, contrary to the Bank's rules and warnings for the account and payment in Basel. Of course, you know that behind all this is Mladjan Dinkic, current finance minister. Then, his travels across Western Europe last year, where he spent 30,000 euros of state money or recently in Japan where he spent 50,000 euros, again state money, where he ran selected journalists and thus spent taxpayers' money. Or will you conduct a check on the financial transactions and spending of state money to buy these two unhappinesses in an O.R. by Bogoljub Karic? I'm saying state money, because Mobtel's money is actually state money. Will the Council and the state audit institution check it out? Will all this be revealed and revealed to the public? Is he going to reveal to the public everything I've stated, and there's a lot that hasn't been mentioned for this pay phone? The state audit institution is not a state administration body. If you believe that a state audit institution or a short-term institution, this law and the adoption of this law becomes an authority of the state administration, you are wrong, it is not enough. Where there is respect for certain provisions of other laws, the Government Act, the Ministry Act. You can't call this authority the authorities of the state administration. So it's not enough to adopt this bill, it takes a lot of other regulations to bring it into line and change, in order for this body to have the importance of the government's authority. If the term of office for Members of Parliament is limited - four years, members of the government - four years, President of the Republic - five years, the meaning and essence of my amendment is not to restrict the mandate of a member of the Council for six plus six years and no more. And what you have predicted by the Bill's proposal is that it is much and necessary to reduce the duration of the term of office of the members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. Why limit the mandate to more than four years, while this government is going on? The government of Vojislav Kostunica will not last a full term, i.e. Four years, 2004-2007. Will the state audit institution be a asset control task and will it really audit or will it prevent the control of the funds of existing state bodies and persons involved in this business? Or, perhaps, will you selectively audit certain entities that spend state money, or money from the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21313	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't be talking about other things in a law project like this, or banning trade. The Constitutional Court allowed trade the moment he said who owned the mandate. In other words, you literally forbid a man to rip apart, and you can forbid him to go to Ruma and buy a calf. Don't talk about it. Let's talk about the law. A clear message is also from this bill of law and from almost all the draft laws that have come to date when it comes to the mandate. It's mostly five or six terms, but mostly six years. The ruling coalition, since it sees the end is near, that the October government is trying to house some of its own in some institutions, as you say in this law. However, you haven't found her name, but the institution is a broad term, so it'll take six years. It will not, immediately after the next elections, in the spring, and unless otherwise possible, change this law in this same assembly with a different parliamentary composition. You won't be able to foster those you think will be your "extended" hand. Secondly, if someone is good, if someone consciously, securely, professionally performs jobs, why can they only be chosen twice? Why can't he be chosen three or four times? Do you not trust your people? Third, Mr Krasic said the government is composed of six closed groups. They are not closed, but many will be closed the moment the government in Serbia is changed and judicial authorities, judicial and prosecution bodies, unburdened by politics, begin to do their job. Crime and corruption are in this country up to their necks. That you negotiated with the DS, so they work at Belgrade level, and you at Serbia level, that's another story, because 40% of the Serbian budget is spent in Belgrade. Belgrade Mayor paves the street as soon as the asphalt is dirty, to spend a budget of 500m euros by the end of the year, or to put it in contracts. The fact that after the annex contract to go by the end of the year, he has to empty the 500m euros. Our hospitals are ruined, our kindergartens are ruined, schools are destroyed, but you can't, if you're building a hospital, you can switch windows, parquet, much to take, five or six percent, that's how much the contractors pay. You can see that by the parliamentary groups, that's 17 percent, that's nine plus nine, that means 18 percent at least. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time we stopped discussing the law, that the law should be withdrawn from the procedure and found a more appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21315	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21316	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, we have heard here a precise diagnosis, all parties agree on this, that it is really necessary to exercise control of the use of state resources. This control is necessary not only through existing institutions, but also through new institutions proposed by this regulation. That is why I really don't understand why a new institution that needs to strengthen and make an independent control of the use of state resources is so challenged. We can disagree on a way, about the name of the organ, but we don't agree with what we all claim isn't enough and that it doesn't exist in this country, I can't possibly understand it. I think it's more of a dispute to argue, not a challenge to a good idea. The idea is really good, and it should serve the purpose of even more subjecting itself to independent and self-control by using state resources. Of course she's good. Indeed, I can resent the fact that it is not proposed to be a special assembly and judicial budget, etc. But there's no special budget unless there's a special independent institution to control that budget. I believe that this institution should exist and this law should be supported. It is those who are the most disputing and fiercely criticising the phenomena related to the availability of state resources. As for the lack of constitutional basis, the constitutional basis exists in the members of the Constitution 71 and 72. The constitutional basis concerns that the state of Serbia forms a body of its organs, to regulate their rights and obligations. As far as my esteemed colleague Krasic is concerned, he is currently not here, related to whether or not the Constitution prohibits murder. It's forbidden by article 14 that says a man's life is indecisive. So any arrest into a man's life is strictly forbidden by the Constitution itself. Therefore, the G17 plus will support this law. The law wants to establish a new independent institution, which should protect against abuse of use of state money. This government has contributed greatly to the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement, the conflict of interest and a series of other laws, including criminal rules on the work of courts and on this line of protection of the state interests and interests of all our citizens as taxpayers, as well as the adoption of laws on such an independent institution. As for limiting the mandate, the question arises why is he six years old? The thesis is that it's to protect the staff of this party or that party. In doing so, I'm saying that the opposition, who resents it, herself, is expecting his coming to power. So if that happens, she'll be able to pick people like that, change laws like this. Therefore, it will change its mandate, and it will change those people who will not answer to the party in power. However, such a change will not lead to the quality that it seeks. I would like to point out that every law, including this, contains provisions under which authorized and appointed persons can be resolved in other cases, means not only when their term of office expires. Therefore, if those who are appointed do not exercise their mandate under the law, they can be resolved by law, therefore, not by the end of the term of office. Therefore, that objection does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21317	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. On what basis do you want the word? It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the predecessor said that the constitutional framework for the adoption of this law is an article. 71st and 72nd. The Constitution of Serbia. Let's read those articles, make it clear to all of us. Article 71 says "Republic authorities, within the framework of established rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, establish policy, adopt and enforce laws, other regulations and general acts, perform constitutional and judicial protection of constitutionality and legality." Item 2: "Other authorities and organisations in the Republic of Serbia can be entrusted with the enforcement of laws and other regulations and general acts in the framework of the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, by having the republican authorities responsible for their enforcement." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one has said a word since this morning, since we started discussing this law, he has so far not said that the National Assembly can't pass laws. No one said that the republican authorities could not vote the laws, lay down other regulations, perform constitutional and judicial protection of constitutionality and legality. But there is no constitutional framework here for what the gentleman said. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is very clear and needs to be read before it comes out for a pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21319	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about this story just now, I'm sorry that my colleague Kristin came out, I have to remind him that he supported the power of the SRS in Novi Sad. He knows that there are extremely honest, educated people there, qualified for a city government area. And not only that, but after a year and the mayor of Novi Sad, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and the whole team leading her, has shown that this is the most successful power Novi Sad has ever had. Corruption and crime are the greatest disease of our society. This has also been diagnosed by citizens of Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and the whole of Serbia. I have repeatedly talked about that one study at the level of units of local self-government has shown that citizens in the entire poverty, which is now covered, especially for the past five years, the growing misery in which they are located, and poverty, on the edge of endurance, below the poverty threshold, to the greatest extent that they are constricted and diagnosed as a problem in society, are almost 70% crime and corruption. Why is radical rule successful? Because Maja Gojkovic had the strength to stand firm against it, to enter the hornet's nest, as it is said, and that, despite the threats, even by physical liquidation, and the various threats that came to her home address, and to the address of the City House, where she is running power, she managed to go into a harsh and uncompromising crime. I see that my colleague Obradovic, at least when my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 24, where I asked that at least 20, not 30 MPs, as proposed, could submit an initiative to recall a member of the Council, had in mind that the letter of the Constitution when it comes to ministers and the Republic Government was clear. Also, an initiative to replace the government of the Republic of Serbia can come from at least 20 MPs, which I explained through one sentence and gave. He had to have it in mind that they were a member. 71st and 72nd. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is not defined that the state of Serbia can form these special institutions, therefore, not decadently, absolutely with general provisions. It stands there, and it was quoted by counterpart Markovic, the Republic of Serbia is passing laws, regulations and other general acts and that it must adhere to them. Article 72 says all jobs are from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. As for the establishment of new state institutions, it really doesn't stand. We were right, as we were right, so he saw it, with Article 24 when we called on a member of the Constitution to recall members of the Council, the same time we said there was no original constitutional basis for it to be established. But even if he did, and he's gone, the whole law represents one farce and counterpart Rajko Obradovic has been set up to propose this law. In the legislative, constitutional and legal basis in the Republic of Serbia, there has been no progress since Kostunica's government arrived, and I am not talking about that terrible period when the highest degree of crime and corruption has been produced by the Democratic Party by cities, as is the case in Novi Sad, Belgrade, where this continues. If Nenad Bogdanovic and clicks with him in power in Belgrade thinks that Belgrade's citizens, and especially Serbian radicals, have forgotten the whole affair about building a parking lot in Pioneer Park, Belgrade's "Arena" and all other malversions, where it's washed on tens or hundreds of millions of euros, make sure that Aleksandar Vukic has not forgotten it, tonight he will be very happy to remind him of all these DS and him personally, Bogdanovic, who has become deeply entrenched in crime and corruption. It is abnormal to refer to the traditions of the newminst countries and to this kind of thing being explained, although it may have been a good will for colleagues of Obradovic, who has been planted, because Dinkic or another member of the government cannot come out, who and how it has to do with corruption and Serbian tycoons. Not that it would be degutant, but this is how they reckoned that it was an MP for whom at least no one from the SRS can yet say that there are some criminal tails behind it, the president of the Committee, let him force this non-coherent law, the signed reasoning modeled by other countries, and then let's start talking about matters of jurisdiction of the state audit institution and of what has been so far and what is under the Constitution and how the Republic Government should work, so that the authorities of the judiciary and above all of the UPPOK point to who are the main criminals in Serbia. If Kostunica already knew, and he knew, what the bird on the branch knows, even the one who has been suffering from bird flu must know, certainly that Bogoljub Karic has washed and transferred hundreds of millions of euros of state money to private accounts, which his own, made members of his family. If the government of the Republic of Serbia and Kostunica itself had all the documentation, if Kostunica knew as well that Hamovic and Lazarevic were Kumovski, a tycoon couple, in close connection with Mladjan Dinkic, if he already knew that Dinkic had informed the public after the failed five-octobar mafia coup that they had taken out of the country to Cyprus for billions, at that time marks, or dollars, or already as to who was counting it, and that these coins, through these same tycoons, via the Sešelj and other islands, are returning a little by little to our country, in a way that they buy companies that are at the cost of selling, and especially that they threw their paws, in the process of restructuring, the oil industry of Serbia, to our refineries and to the Elektroprivred Serbia, then why they don't come out in public, and we have come to know that we have come to know it. No, be silent and it is not only the greatest sin, but also that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent state authorities are not doing business within their jurisdiction. I'll tell you what it looks like on the finance ministry case. Someone mentioned that the Ministry of Finance has only 20 and some budgetary inspectors, and the bill states, in these segments of the audit, that the revision of business and spending money in the local self-government unit is one of the key jobs. Now let's ask Mladjan Dinkic why in Arandjelovac, Novi Sad, at the very beginning when Mrs. Gojkovic, due to the undisputed crime and criminal charges that DS prosecutors had pushed into drawers, did no budgetary inspection come? Why wasn't it done in the King, at a very sensitive moment, when, with the support of over 10,000 citizens, we are seeking the recall of this unfortunate Jovic? Why didn't the budget inspection come to Chachak? Now, the undisputed Survey Committee, led by SRS MP Talovic, found that in a month it was unintendedly spent and stolen from citizens of 400,000 euros. Don't guys, it's a lot of big numbers. Not according to the system, "a mountain was shaken, a mouse was born", after 2000 criminal charges with radicals and that of whom – Branislav Blažić, bought a network and five pairs of shoes for the football club for children. Please don't. And that Alexander Vukitch was paying the bonuses to the hungry people to eat. What are you talking about? Or what Professor Vojislav Seselj intervened that flooded areas are being rehabilitated in the forest and that people get money to rebuild their houses. That is not the case, and especially that you are calling for parliaments and those with a'vestminster' tradition, which have a mechanism for Parliament to unequivocally establish that there has been some abuse, to inform the state audit institution. To remind you of what happened in the Serbian Parliament the past few days. Have you forgotten that Aleksandar Vukic has unequivocally established for a month and a half as chairman of the Survey Committee, which you voted for and gave one of his representatives, and asked for the Assembly to declare urgently that there was abuse and robbery of Serbian citizens by Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic. Where's the report? He didn't even come to this day. When you do not respect parliament, as a truly established institution, the highest legislative authority, how will you respect a state audit institution and those members of the Council? One of these mobsters can come from the tycoon's godmothers and kick their slaps and tell them who asks you what knowledge you've come to. What's this about? Was Mrs. Radeta on the board that determined all the machinations in the privatisation process of Knjiz Milos. Where's the report? No, it's all pushed under the carpet. Not until today. Then I hear last night -- they bid, and that's the leader of the robbery in Serbia, Aleksandar Vlahovic and that one, and that one there, as many as there were, what kind of ownership structure is. Why didn't they go back to the beginning of the story to see who was negotiating with Danone, how it all happened at Labus' house, who was involved, what kind of machinations were under way, and why did the president of the Securities Committee take a quick resignation, or the man got sick? Do not lie to the citizens of Serbia that this law will take place in the fight against crime and corruption. When you say nice and admit, when Kostunica comes out, the finance minister says – Bogoljub Karic washed hundreds of thousands, robbed the state, this "Mobtel" as a monopoly house did it and then someone can believe you. Or, to say about Hamovic and Lazarevic – they stole from the citizens at our torture, at such a high price of electricity they got rich and intend to continue doing so. They all know that from your ruling structures and from the DSS and members of the Privatisation Committee and those who have been on these committees of inquiry, but shut up. You know, the pursuit of such a tendency to stand behind every MP is a tycoon, and it's just a matter of work. Not that Serbian radicals will do anything to end up where they belong, when the judicial authorities and the Constitutional Court are doing their job; we will neither arrest nor arrest, only create conditions for the state authorities, institutions, to do their job uninterruptedly. And here we are, waiting, waiting, only Monday on the agenda comes the election of the Constitutional Court judge. What's been done so far? Nothing. For a year and a half, we had neither the Constitutional Court nor the President of the Republic. We've got the President of the Republic, and the president is from a party that's narrowed down in crime and corruption, you know, the Democratic Party. The biggest thieves spread out across municipalities and cities in Serbia, haralding, robbing, and you did nothing about it, you did not follow the sacred example of Mrs Gojkovic, who set out to expose all this in Novi Sad. Or, by the arrival of radicals, by the election of Gordana Pop-Lazic, in the municipality of Zemun, this one only in the business space of Zemuna how much he stole – 57 million dinars. Who came, who answered? The Department of Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Finance? It's not. They say: "This is what the Radicals say." They don't talk, they all exist. You know we never went public without concrete evidence and material. This state institution and members of the Council are seriously involved in this business, and there is no will in the government itself and in the MPs themselves to deal with criminals and to come out and say. When you went out for a pay phone or to say in some public appearance, are you ready to say that – you are not, that there are indications that you and these people are involved in crime and corruption. Here, I say it openly, like any radical. You will also hear tonight in this new encounter of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic with this Bogdanovic, your mayor of Belgrade, with a reminder of everything they have done and now, you will see that crime and corruption are present. All the prosecutors who push these objects into your drawer are from the DS ranks. You haven't done depoliticization and negative selection in the judiciary, and you're establishing a new state institution. It just doesn't make sense for citizens to have false hopes like that. Besides, they don't expect you to, right to tell you, to deal hard with crime and corruption. They know that the government of the SRS will be determined to do so from the very beginning, and that all those who have made themselves rich, will answer for it, and these are the most serious crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21321	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added after Article 24a. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21322	Ladies and gentlemen, the motioner is obviously insisting in his intention to serve six years as a mandate for the various officials to be appointed after the entry into force of this law, so that the Supreme State Auditor is also foreseen in Article 27: "The Supreme State Auditor shall appoint and resolve the President of the Institution by a decision of six years, with the possibility of re-election". It is said that those who participated in the drafting of this law and helped Radojko Obradovic – various international NGOs, that it is better to be elected for six years than for four years, that this is their recommendation and because of their recommendation he insists on, with an explanation that the recommendation has room, i.e. to see the discontinuity between the current political majority in the Serbian Parliament and the authorities to carry out the supreme audit of budget spending. That perseverance is already getting a little bit funny, because as we have seen, the Council is also elected for six years. So, the president of the institution is also elected for six years, and he chooses the Supreme State Auditor by his decision. Is it not more logical then that the Supreme State Auditor has a different mandate, as the term of office of the President of the Institution will most likely expire and the mandate of the Supreme State Auditor will expire. What's the discontinuity now? He's gone. It would rather be that there are two good reasons why various state functions extend to six years. Before I explain it, I would just like to remind myself that the president of the institution is also elected for a period of six years, but with the possibility of a re-election. It's a precedent in our legislation. Under all current laws, regardless of the duration, two mandates only limit the function directly elected in the elections that exercise a certain power: the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the municipalities. No one has that restriction anymore. There is a reason why – not to identify with this function, etc. It's not just practice in Serbia, it's practice in the world. We now see that the continuity continues to persist in the six-year term. There are two reasons. One reason is that the ruling majority, which will certainly be elected by both the Council of the Institutions and the indirectly Supreme State Auditor, is simply left to exercise power in certain bodies, at the loss of power in the elections. The second reason is to prevent the new government from controlling the work of the previous one. That's the problem, and that's why he's insisting on this. There may still be a desire for some officials of individual political parties to receive rewards for working in these parties by getting high salaries in various state bodies, and this is also a state body. There's talk of the independence of that state body. Where does this organ, this institution, come from? Well, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We will later see that it can be financed from donations from various legal entities, natural persons, even from foreign donations, foreign donors, but was primarily thought to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. How the institution will function and control the finance minister when the finance minister releases the money. There is a way -- to partially control him by reporting that his ministry is functioning in accordance with the law, which is that the president of the institution, the top state auditor, is from the political party G17, to appoint him Mladjan Dinkic. Why not? Wherever the public finances are, there's a G17 present. So, the finance minister, the governor of the NBS, the public procurement agency, the agency for the protection of the rights of the bidder. Here, we are also shortly discussing in particular the tobacco law, which will no longer have the Agency, will have the Authority, but the tobacco administration again proposes the competent finance minister, read: Mladjan Dinkic. Will the G17 win the post of President of the Institution and the Supreme State Auditor again? Probably will. The G17 will control itself. And at the loss of power, a political party that has no more than 2% will be in a position to exercise power for another six years. That's what the legislator of this law insists on. Why? We'll only have to ask him when he's in this room. The independence of certain institutions in the functioning of the state is often mentioned here, and even one of my colleagues talked about how courts are independent, or how they should be independent, and not because judges are elected and resolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The only thing left is for the judges to be elected in direct elections. Theoretically possible, but difficult to implement. Or that some political party puts them in power, let's say G17, after it fully usurped power in the Republic of Serbia. A bad idea has also gone on, and the idea is still under way, which is the High Council of Justice, which gives us an example of how it works when an independent body proposes certain judicial functions in the Serbian Parliament. Following the formation of the High Council of Justice in Serbia's courts, the then DOS and this new one, he named the largest number of judges from the Democratic Party and it would not be a big deal if these judges were appointed and appointed to enforce the law. When I say judges, I mean prosecutors, deputy prosecutors. They were only set up for the reason that, if abuse of official office, authority, accidental spending of money, in the follow-up of theft, they simply do not carry out judicial proceedings. Something's changed, and there's been an attempt to get rid of those judges. However, the resolution for judicial holders is delivered by the High Council of Justice, which is an independent body, and we see how it works. Simply, you cannot resolve any judge who is corrupt because there are certain structures in the High Council of Justice that protect him and not only protect him, but when the time of re-election comes, when the National Assembly is finally asked again, for a shorter period of time, not for a period of six years, then the High Council of Justice comes out with a statement that the Assembly does not respect their proposals without any explanation, but the vote in the Assembly is the result of political trade, forgetting that many things are being avoided for the assembly speaker, but the lack and corruption in the work were resolved at the Committee's session. Nevertheless, one allegedly independent body dared comment on the vote of MPs elected by national will, and now you expect the Supreme Auditing Institution and the Supreme State Auditor to be independent in their work. Hardly. The only goal of all of this is to keep individual party officials' awards, to maintain a certain power at a loss in the elections and to prevent the control of the work of the government, especially with the possibility that it is very difficult to replace the Council and the Supreme State Auditor with the decisions of the Assembly, because remember how you did it with Kori Udovicki. You couldn't change it, except to call for the Serbian Parliament's decision not to be made in the manner envisaged by the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. By the very law of choosing the governor of the National Bank, you couldn't change it. Such a proposal is very similar to that of the law and it is a serious lack of it. It is perfectly normal for every political authority, or majority that forms power, to have a certain responsibility. When he has a certain responsibility, he has certain rights, and those rights are to exercise authority. In this case, these rights to a government or a congregation majority, to decide and lead the country, will be taken away. That's the problem. Why? It's likely that a thief who has lasted since the arrival of DOS to power would hide himself through the work of such an organ that is at least the least independent in its operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21323	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 27. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 28 Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's clear up another dilemma that occurred during the discussion this morning – where people's money is from Cyprus. Whoever was reading the number of "The Great Serbia", which we shared this morning, could read that Dinkic is keeping the people's money from Cyprus well, though, at his private accounts on the Virgin Islands. Therefore, these dilemmas are gone. I'm curious about the other thing, why didn't you ask through the Russian embassy, through the MUP, how Putin solved the problem of corruption, solved the good part, solved it still. He doesn't have this law on the state audit institution. What institution is the state that helped him solve this issue? We have this institution too, it's called the Anti-Organized Crime Board. All the crime, all the corruption in you is not random, everything is organized in well-organized groups, and this dilemma, which was, for a moment, about the mandate, here is article 32, which explains the discussion for members 28, 27, etc. In Article 32, the Secretary of the Institution shall be elected for six years. That's the point. You know that you're leaving the government, you know that winter will not survive this government, you know that someone else will come, because the people's will has obviously changed, you know that the next government will have to deal with organised crime and corruption, and you know that everything will be revealed, unless you try to prevent any audit institutions from detecting crime. Because according to this, UBPOK is not allowed to interfere until the audit institution has reached its conclusion, and when the audit institution, which will be composed mainly of those political parties where crime was the most, comes to a conclusion, then the police and the judiciary will be able to interfere. It won't be possible, gentlemen. Only this Serbia will get out of the mud in which it is now -- Putin's system of solving, calculating with organised crime and corruption. Will this secretary also take an oath? This is amazing. Unfortunately, the ruling coalitions of the parties that are counting forces in the electoral body rule this government, or rule this country. The biggest party has received ministerial seats that have no contact with the funds, all of them are in one institution, or one party, and we will defend the acquired funds of individual political parties that are in power. Call the promoter, let him withdraw this law so we don't throw ourselves in front of the people anymore, to discuss things that are bad and non-applicable. We've come to the point that the mayors in certain cities have been elected on some special lists, well supported by the parties most spoken of here. They go to jail for corruption, crime, for sharing disability pensions with a hat and a fist, not the one who's sick, but the one who opened the wallet. Now, I read in the paper, two days ago, he released the court of Mayor Smederev, who was attributed to sharing 50 disability pensions, of course out of love for money, and it is known to have been from 2,500 to 5,000 euros. Otherwise, she said she was an intimate friend of Serbia's president. Is that why she's being held in custody? Is it possible he wasn't reacting to an intimate friend? Ladies and gentlemen, ask the motionary to withdraw this law and move on to some smarter bill, to discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21325	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21326	The job of the secretary appears to be the work of an administrator, and then, when you get your hands on the pucks of the European Union, from the Commission for the famous stabilisation and association of the 'twenty-five-sixth year', they say - you're bad about the administrative Corps, you don't meet enough criteria, and you say - come on, and we'll give the secretary of the state audit institution a round job, to specify what qualifications he needs, which is uncontestable, but it's unacceptable that the secretary of the institution is elected for six years, with the possibility of re-election, and the MPs and ministers of four years. Even if Radojko Obradovic had been given such advice by Balinovac, who promoted state officials to five years each, it is impossible to justify this rationally and rationally why the secretary would choose for six years. There's a colleague of Mircic's right. We do not say, if you establish, along with all our submitted amendments, an audit state institution, that there should be no secretary and that he is dealing with these affairs: to coordinate the work of the following services of the institution, to conduct the business of the institution, to carry out other affairs according to the provisions, and in accordance with the powers of the President of the institution, with the fact that the President of the institution appoints and resolves it after a public competition which is usually set up, and these are the personnel from the ruling set up, there will throw around, I tell you from the DSS, those from G17 – wherever some money is, the blurry, there are the first to plant their personnel. It is impossible for you to accept solutions without accepting such an amendment submitted by your colleague Mircic. Not only that, he will coordinate, but he will receive important information for members of the Council on Abuses and Reports. I have to remind you of that, so it's not a negligible role as a secretary. He should be, of course, replaceable, but after four years, not to remain six years in that position. I must remind you that Slobodan Lalovic, the current independent MP and minister of work, martial arts and social affairs, was after the five-October coup of the government's anti-corruption commission. Now they were supposed to deal with criminals, and they thought -- now we're going to find some, so we found, to repeat the case, Dr Blazic, or to apply the anti-constitutional extraprofit to people who, by law and regularly, acquired their property and that the hack and the harangh were led to them at that time, as to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and criminals and thieves, good to each government, then close and now close to DS – nothing for them. When Lalovic, as secretary of the committee, who is now a minister, and then was for you only an unknown man from some party who has snuck through "igle ears" to parliament, not on his own, but on the coat of arms of Kostunica and DOS, he did not want to enter the essence, or to reveal who all these tycoons from DS, first of all, and those DOS summits, who, by various companies, have robbed the state and citizens, how then you expect that this secretary, some future person, who we know for sure will go from the list of personnel, first of all, the G17 organizations, and that stands there for six years and every future government, fair, who wants to deal with crime and corruption, as it is radical, be sure to suffer him. Such a procedure and such a provision of the law are therefore unacceptable. We will, four years ago, take over, by the will of the citizens, power in the country. But if you are already selecting a secretary and if his mandate is running, then it is more logical that this proposal by my colleague Mircic – be that for four years, because, no matter what it seems, he will only be dealing with these legal administrative affairs, all the data and all the abuses and all that the state audit institution has come to, will be with the secretary who, accordingly, have certain powers. That is why I invite you to accept in the day of voting the amendment of fellow Members of Mircic, and at least here to coordinate with both the Constitution and the country's electoral function, in all functions where people are directly or indirectly elected, to be four years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21327	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Dragan Colic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word was addressed by MP Dragan Colic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already heard from the MPs of the SRS that it is best for the motion to withdraw this bill. One of the main reasons should be that it does not possess a constitutional basis, and despite the disturbance in this sphere, which it would likely cause, as well as all the draft laws that the ruling majority here supports. In no area does society bring about any improvement, but it is a very difficult situation that further complicates it. Probably bad solutions are your practice and part of your ideology. We have not been able to come across any of the laws we would say -- here, this bill will do Serbia's citizens good. The government itself, as if it had no courage to stand behind this proposal. Proposer, a certain Mr. Radojko Obradovic, should now say something about his expertise. What is very specific to the ruling majority is that somehow you prefer this western lifestyle of our traditional Serbian, so you often use expressions and words that are not suitable for Serbian. It is good that sometimes a man wants to be a little bit smarter, to give some seriousness to his speech through quotes, to express through some foreign words, but the Serbian laws that the Serbian Parliament needs to pass, above all should be clear to the MPs who are sitting here, some of them are already tired, some are bored, some are totally deconcentrated, some are autistic to everything that is happening here and what the SRS is trying to tell Serbian citizens. We know that most MPs of the ruling coalition are not interested, but we are not talking to them, we are not expecting anything from them, we are talking to the citizens of Serbia. In the title above article 33, I ask that the word "exterior" be replaced by "sex." So, the title above Article 33 is said to be – external experts, so I have an association of what you are and how you rule in the interests of citizens, to be – extreme experts. "The institution in the audit process can hire external experts," and we ask that it be said: "The institution in the audit process can hire external experts to carry out tasks under its jurisdiction, if the audit requires special expertise that the institution does not have". Article 2 is said to be an "exterior expert", and we are looking for "a sexual expert of the institution must have the appropriate expertise and experience" etc., where I ask that this word of foreign origin be omitted, because it is inaccessible and unsuitable to our beautiful Serbian language. There have also been words here about the behaviour of people who come to public office and who, according to the domestic law on local self-government, say they were elected to direct democratic elections, as if other elections until their election were not democratic, have large budgets to which citizens' money goes. We had a case, which Mr. Momir Markovic mentioned, in Smederev, the city from which I came, the president of Jasna Avramovic municipality, which is very close to Boris Tadic. Maybe she was also normal until she went to this secret meeting in Fruszko Gora, where she was educated, where she was in a briefing, and educated by a master for stealing, who knows how to steal from the budget best. And Gilas was, because he belongs to this intimate society that is very experienced in this sphere of theft from the budget. When this certain Mrs. Jasna Avramovic was released from custody, in which she spent 30 days, imagine, fireworks were held in the square in Smederev. People, such an example of tastelessness and hypocrisy, while the citizens of Smederev and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in conditions of a major economic crisis and social misery. Imagine, people come from space, break through the cosmonaut orbit, and there's some trivial welcome on earth, it's thought to be a regular, no fireworks being made, and in my town, from which I come, while the poor squirms, the woman gets out of jail and is being held fire. We'll still have criminals in the overs and overs, in the drawers when they go to jail, as worthy citizens. That's where we're going. I said and saved my soul, as an MP for the SRS. Once again I say, I address the citizens of Smederev and Serbia, I do not want it to be the voice of the crying in the desert, but we Serbian radicals have this task, we have sworn to all of us in the church that everything we do will be done in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and so we will serve our people in the best way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21329	Thank you, Mr. Cholic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we now have the opportunity to consider what has been discussed before the opening of the debate in particular for this bill. So, the Finance Committee has submitted an amendment to the exact same amendment as Dragan Colic, who submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS. The assumption is that the Supreme State Auditor and members of the Council must know at least one world language, probably to understand what is "exterior", I guess that's what the promoter had in mind. He did not recall that there was an appropriate word in Serbian, or dictionary. It's more like it's the first one. However, despite the fact that the Committee on Finance has submitted the same amendment and Radojko Obradovic, as a promoter, accepted the amendment, did not give up on the intention that members of the Council and the Supreme State Auditor must know at least one world language, so in Article 33, paragraph 2, it is said, "The external expert of the Institution must have the appropriate expertise and experience." Why did they not persist in their intention and suggest and knowledge of at least one world language, only someone will have to explain to us what the world languages are, which are recognized world languages? I guess those are all the languages spoken in the world today. I would ask the chairman to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure at the session of the Serbian Parliament. Furthermore, is this perhaps because of the intention it writes – "For the external expert of the institution can also be appointed as a foreign citizen, who is a recognised expert in the area of importance for performing the tasks of the institution". Is that maybe Philip Cepter, maybe him, he's a foreign citizen? Could it be the IMF, the World Bank? So, we're gonna let some of the loops get in the audit business. It's not enough that you keep getting pucks from them how you're supposed to run this country, like they know better what's missing from our people than they are from ourselves, but by law you give them the right to do what they do and call it. At the very least, the first wonder is the fact why the amendment of MP Dragan Colic was not accepted, when the amendment of the Finance Committee, which is identical to this amendment, and even better amendment by Dragan Colic, is precisely defined by which member and to which part of the text and the law applies this amendment, by the amendment of the Finance Committee, because on the basis of which the provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been submitted, the amendment which the Proposer has adopted. There is an impression that the Proposer and the Financial Committee do not want to take the SRS seriously, which in this business has really tried to make a good idea translated into bad law, as much as it brings to the point, that it really serves what it should, to control the spending of public finances, without tampering with foreign institutions. For all we know, even the Republic Tax Administration is reporting to the IMF, which is also a disgrace. He reports on how much the Serbian citizen owes the Republic of Serbia's budget. And such reports are filed, and we, as MPs, have no right to do so, or we cannot do so with the Republic Tax Administration. But that is why the IMF and the World Bank are simply calling for a list of debtors to be provided, as tax is charged, and the Republic Tax Administration is extremely quick and accurately responding to such requirements and such questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21331	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21332	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's not just a language correction, in accordance with the spirit of the Serbian language, but the essence, how do you say, is external? Even if Gordana Komic had helped him, he would have been some Ustasha new talk. I don't think I'm saying it, as they say - external, and here's the word, or outside experts, and why do they even need a state audit institution? Since members of the Council are, like, educated, educated, so I guess they'll know at least one of the world's languages, I guess they have all these experiences. You see, it's the same as various consulting houses that take money from public enterprises, as well as various consulting agencies in local self-government units. That's what the Democratic Party's famous for, hiring them for various areas, doing some elaborates, giving some expert opinions, and then asking who's going to pay for it? If the budget of the state audit institution is almost fully based, with the possibility of a domestic or foreign donor showing up, on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we will talk about it from Monday, how much it will cost, as a newly established institution, we will now also have your experts, external experts, even imagine, instead of externally, to write Serbian as well as you should, pay. You know, Mr. Angelkovic, given that you have a long internship here in the Assembly, from the beginning of the multi-party, I have been speaking to you, because you are now chairing, I could not say to Markovic, but he has been newly burned in this business, as well as many MPs in the Serbian Assembly, especially from the SRS, that it has never been as it has been in the past few years, that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and various experts, externals, you have been present in committees, and by all other services in the Assembly. I truly admire and admire you, as a cultural and fine man, when you enter as vice president of the congregation in the elevator, how do you address them? The question is which of these world languages they speak. Do you want to talk to them one way or another? What's certain is that those Serbians don't understand. Serbian and Serbian embassies, who are sitting, sent from numerous, and above all by the American and British embassies, to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to keep an eye on what is happening there. He told you well, a few days ago, that one such external expert, as you would say, Radojko Obradovic, in the bill, is an expert in the field of justice. From where? He was sent by Polt, came from the American embassy. Mr. Vukic said, at this point, I can't remember the last name of that person, the American, who has diplomatic immunity, was sent to deal only with whether the laws are good. He says he is. Here, now we like it, to the limit that we can accept. Scissors lie with their shoulders. He says he has no idea. Where the hell does he know? Well, every minister has a tutor. We are, indeed, under a certain financial and political tutelage, not to mention a concrete occupation in Kosovo and Metohija, on the part of territory in the southern province, in Kosovo and Metohija, as a country under the protectorate. Just to make it official. A contract was signed on the uninterrupted passage of NATO troops, and what else, say nicely – occupation, but it is now otherwise called. Now it's called an external expert, I don't know where, and it doesn't say it has to be our citizen. So it can come from this embassy or that embassy, control what is done and re-arbitrize and give opinions and suggestions in conflicts of interest and abuse. Don't think, we keep telling you this, the story of these yellow ones, who are otherwise just burdened by the SRS, has failed. Wherever they appear on television, that Sutanovac, you saw that Gilas last night and so on, they're just talking about Serbian radicals. They have nothing else. They have crime around them. They left chaos in the state and they can't move forward, which is their failed slogan. We've always told you, we've just been working against integration and all the other connections with the whole world, on equal ground. But that such tutors come to us on the side and more to come to the Serbian Parliament, that MPs cannot speak to them and communicate with them, and that they want to greet them kindly, because you have no idea who he is or what he is, there goes anyone who arrives. That really doesn't make sense. It is not only a proper language intervention, that it is external, as Serbian is said, rather than external, but it is the essence of why they are needed. You want me to remind you further, of the famous 'Deloitte & Touche' and the executive directorship of Aleksandr Vlahovic, how does he come to be Minister of Industry and Privatisation? Here at RTS last night, like by the system -- "neither onion ate nor onion smelled," he's being silly. "I have no idea what it was about cements or sugars, I don't know who the tycoons are. These are successful business people, they have projects." So who are you talking to? They're all connected, with mentoring, especially these embassy experts. Their work is easier. You don't have to agree to that. You need to come to your senses and mind our Serbian business, as we know it, and we can handle it, and that's just some future responsible authority, because we're talking to you -- that's for free, obviously.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21333	I thank the People's MP, Miss Jovanovic. Welcome, Mr. Baptizer. Does anyone else want a word? Financial committee, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 33. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the state audit institution is another one of those proposals that Serbia allegedly needs to introduce to Europe. What is very confusing is only the argument given in this bill, which is that the state audit institution is an extremely important institution, whose establishment and development will allow for the necessary balance in relations between the legislative and executive authorities. The balance is simply a sign of equality, which means that what happens in the executive government is similar in the legislative authority. It is quite the opposite of the Constitution and divided into legislative, judicial and executive power. Here it is not necessary to go towards creating a balance between these two authorities, but it is known that the strongest and oldest government is the legislative authority and it should control all other authorities, because in this house the government and ministers are elected, and the Prime Minister, so they cannot be any older, they cannot be equal, and especially not older. However, with the operation of this government for the last five years, the previous DOS and the current slave DOS, it comes to this parliament being demoted, to be the instrument of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I believe that this session is currently not attended by ten MPs, who are to defend the interests of the government, or to defend this bill of law that they have proposed, and we have received it from one of the MPs in this assembly. It's a total lack of interest. It is probably necessary now that what the Serbian Parliament is supposed to do is some institution, so that institution will prepare us materials, prepare us data, see public revenues and expenditures, and then at home addresses, resorts, winter resorts, or anywhere else we are, we will also inform ourselves on the phone to announce that all this is okay. This is the story of copying everything in the world, which is not like us, because it says here – in parallel legislation, in practice, the supreme audit institution differs according to its structure, so that in various countries it takes vision and organization that corresponds to historical, political and other social conditions specifically in the country. So, something that exists with them, there are various audit houses, and now we have to copy that west and there's some appropriate auditory house, but with conditions, with those jobs that are the opposite of what audit houses do in those European countries. What's the task of doing a review? The audit standards and the audit programme. Revision standards, Art. 34 – "The institution shall exercise its audit competence in accordance with the general principles and rules of the audit and in accordance with the chosen internationally accepted audit standards". Translation into Serbian; meaning, as a translator, that role will be played by our institution which should carry out a review of public income and expenditure. The following article – The Audit Programme reads: ''The institution is auditing on the basis of the annual audit programme, which is required to adopt before the end of the year for the next calendar year. Within the framework of which the law lays down, the Institution shall decide independently on the entities of the audit, the subject matter, the scope and type of audit, the time of initiation and the duration of the audit, if this law is not otherwise specified'. The revision programme must include: (There is a question here why the corresponding number, why not all units of local self-government because they are all beneficiaries of the budget? ) In my amendment, after Article 5 - the corresponding number of public enterprises, I proposed adding Article 6(6), which reads as "a corresponding number of NGOs". Why am I looking for this? We are witnessing that in the last ten years a very big impact on the climate and on politics in the state of Serbia has precisely these NGOs, and especially from this 'bulldozer revolution' on October 5th 2000, when in the media we get incredible space, so that we are witnesses, and day and day, statements, opinions and attitudes of these so-called so-called. NGOs. What are these outstanding examples of NGOs? First of all, there is Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko and not to list them further. Persons hated by the Serb people. Who do they work for? First of all, for Soros, he initially paid them, and then as an organisation is set up to work against the state of Serbia and the Serb people, they immediately accept to be their servants and to use their resources. So are the mercenaries of Tudjman and the late Ali Izetbegovic, and what I think is the worst, because I am an MP coming from Kosovo and Metohija, they are probably mercenaries and Cypriot separatists and terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija. A year and a half, up to two years ago, I saw a film on Kosovo's radio television, where Natasa Kandic is the main role. These are such horrors, such ugly scenes that she told in that film, through the story of crimes, where she said that in Serbia Serbian soldiers and Serb police officers are criminals, that all the squads are guilty, no matter who it is, whether it was one, or whether there was a crime, there was no real difference. She says that all Serbs who took the rifle into their hands to defend their hearth were criminals and instructions from various examples. Along with that, Natasa Kandic was found by two or three other people, Shipara, who allegedly confirmed the words by Natasa Kandic. Such a person lives, works and works and still has an organization that is funded, and I suggest we control everything, as well as what money is financed by such NGOs, in which people like Natasa Kandic, such as Sonja Biserko, work in, and not to list them further. What I would like to tell the MPs is that in the day to vote this bill is being rejected, because this is unnecessary for Serbia, we will not define anything with this law. The law serves only as an amortizer and a device that will amortise robbery and crime in Serbia. All that happens, every affair that is discovered, which appears, which is placed, will be transferred to the auditory house, and when we ask, the competent ministers, the Prime Minister will say, we are waiting for a report from this audit institution that will determine whether or not it really was. So, it will play a role as an amortizer to advertise these affairs, and the affairs are reportedly invented at the very moments when it is necessary to implement a decision, and it is devastating for the Serbian people, so that the Serbian people are entertained and that they do not have insight into what will happen. Furthermore, this member of the law is said to be able to hire auditors of state audit institutions of other countries, as well as audit firms for the implementation of the audit programme. This has already been said that there is no need for the auditory house to be created only after a long period of time, where appropriate staff are to be trained to perform that audit function. We want to do it all overnight. It will not drink water and will play only one of the laws that should be as a figure, as a number, that this assembly has brought it in, and no effect will be in control of these public revenues and expenditures, and worse still, it will not affect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21335	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you were warned by Mr Tomislav Nikolic just a month ago and a few days ago, when an amendment to certain laws was made regarding the activities of the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia, that it is necessary to carry out a revision of "business", or in a concrete case for the leader of the Shiptar Lobby – Natasa Kandic and others at the head of NGOs, the breaking of attacks and the constitutional order of the country, if you will, and disqualification, in the worst possible way, not only of citizens, but also politicians, since you know the case of Mr Tomislav Nikolic and all the vomit and lies that have been promoted by the very one that is financed not only by the Soros Foundation, but also by the Shiparian organisations, and I will support that example. A month and a few days ago, I was approached by a man who, unfortunately, as well as two thousand of our countrymen lost his loved ones. At the end of 1998, in the Shiptar evil terror, every trace of his brother and son was lost. A man who was respected in his place, that is, at the centre of one of the Kosovo-metohic districts, so unhappy, along with members of his family, set out to seek help, to see if he could determine where his loved ones were. Then, at the address of some members of his family, he went to the so-called. The humanitarian law fund, an NGO headed by the Cypriot lobbyist Natasa Kandic, who is directly working against the interests of our country and our people. He didn't know then and it didn't mean anything to him, but right after he arrived, although he wanted to, and today some of them, unfortunately, learned a tragic outcome, what happened to his brother and son. Those who live day and day in the hope that some of their family members are alive may have turned to that or similar address. She asked him why he came to ask questions about his brother and his son who were killed, then, in less than a month after they lost track of them, she knew they were killed, and he served, as she said then, from the position he was in, Milosevic's regime. Is that enough for you or more? Who knows how many cases there are? With his reputation, morale, honor, reputation above all, which enjoys his Serbian people and citizens of other national belongings in our country and with his SRS, Tomislav Nikolic, although the hack led him, was assisted by TV B-92 and many other TVs, knew that Natasa Kandic and all those who use such lies to attack him and the SRS. What can you tell this man or others who are, at the very least, abused? I asked a question two months ago, on the Committee on Defence and Security, Director of BIA – Radet Bulatovic, if the service has any knowledge of whether any of the so-called NGOs – that is why we have put "individuals" in place and there must be concrete data that are needed by the state audit institution to control, such as the Shiptar Fund led by Natasa Kandic and others – are funded by those who aim to destroy the Constitutional Order and deal with all negative phenomena in our country and who work for the expense of foreign intelligence services? He answered yes, it was an open session where journalists were present – "Yes, the service has such information and such knowledge". If we already support any such activity of the state institutions that are working on, that the state is dealing with it, then you must know, and Kostunica must know, as the MUP must also know, therefore the BIA and all those whose job it is, and the Ministry of Finance, above all – where they finance themselves and that it is shown through the report. That is why it is impossible not to accept, unless you want to continue to play with the state and the people and let in every single port of our society, infiltrate those who are funded to degrade everything that represents the state, in the true sense of the word, and state institutions. Now you form a new institution, and you give opportunity to those who are mercenaries, primarily Shiparian mercenaries, such as Natasa Kandic, to deal with these affairs without controlling their financial report and not seeing where they are financed from. So think again about what you are doing and when the day of the vote comes accept to add the point proposed by Mr Kragovic, point 6. And very easily the competent state authorities, which I was talking about, can come up with a grouping which is why we put "certain NGOs", whose financial operations, but also the control of flows, what the state can do and what this institution, above all the Ministry of Finance, needs to do, as a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21337	If you allow me to abuse, since there is no one from the task force working on this law, the question Mr. Kragovic and Ms. Jovanovic have raised here was the subject of consideration when drawing up this law. And I've been pushing for it to get involved. However, given that it is an institution that can control only the spending of state money, in this case the Supreme Auditing Institution can also control those NGOs that receive a single dinar from local self-government or from the Republic's budget, means, from any budget, state money, only those institutions and institutions in which there is income or donations from the budget of local self-government or the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to those who do not have it, they cannot be the subject of this institution – the Supreme Audit Institute Mr. Markovic, one thing is whether or not we agree on the essence. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I'm telling you that the Supreme Audit Authority can only control those institutions or institutions that receive or use one single dinar from the budget of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government. I've fenced myself and used this right just because there's no one in this task force who's been doing it. Here you go, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21338	Mr. Angelkovic, I understand that you wanted to, as a member of a task force or someone who followed it, I didn't quite understand your role, to explain it to us. Thank you very much for explaining this to us, but it's not a clear point. If you'd explained that to me, as Dr. Seselj thanked Shomburg at the first status conference, I could tell you that I understand everything. But it's not clear, because it's the essence of the existence of a state audit institution to control them. We know that at the level of the units of local self-government we have the Alliance of the Blind, and now, according to this new law of a year ago, members of the Ravnog Movement, and before that, decades ago, the NOR fighters, as an NGO, received certain assistance, as well as various others. It's a list, from unit to unit of local self-government, they're called differently and they have some symbolic help, and many are on the back of local budgets, which certainly shouldn't be. I can talk about Kragujevac, who are justifiable to be given help, but that's already a matter of budgetary debate in the municipality, as everyone has an example from their community. The biggest problem here is that they finance money coming directly from the lobbyists of those who killed Serbian children, Serbian women, who fought against the regular military and police forces and engaged in terrorist attacks, and are now going to tear off our southern province. That's what I'm talking about. You need to find some mechanism. We had a great time last time, when it was the law on the powers of the finance minister, you said it wasn't possible. We also wanted to integrate that power into the law, into their business. Now the same. Then it's pointless that there's a state audit institution like this, because through disrespect of the law and deafening what our Constitution is and the positive legal regulations, that someone does and acts like that, we can't accept it. Anyway, you wanted to explain that. However, I am not satisfied with such an answer, especially because the promoter is not here to tell us what was the motive not to accept the amendment of counterpart Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21339	I'm not happy about it myself, but the financial police and other authorities need to control all other incomes and expenditures, not control NGOs like the ones you've been talking about, control these. The Supreme Audit Authority should control spending exclusively on state funds. Mr. Arsic, on what grounds? You don't have time for the amendment anymore. I apologized, I accept that the Rules of Procedure should be broken, if you care to take advantage of it. Mr. Arsic, here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21340	You are violating the Rules of Procedure, you have taken the right to engage in the discussion, although you are chairing the session of the Serbian Parliament. I understand your desire to respond instead of that task force that's not here. It seems to me that you were led astray when they told you this because Article 11(1) says that the entities of the audit are in line with this law: EU funds, donations and assistance from international organisations, foreign governments and NGOs. It seems to me that this member and this act have denied you, Mr. Angelkovic, and you should have insisted that Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic's amendment be accepted. What is the objective of the work of these international organisations, or NGOs that are located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? It is to give the Serb people the sense of collective guilt for war crimes and to make war criminals, who have done it organised, declare themselves victims. Nothing else is the goal of such NGOs – Sonja Biserko and Natasha Kandić. That's the problem, and the goal is to control their financial operations, because then we'd find out who pays them and who they work for. Therefore, Serbian citizens would then be in a position to assess whether these people should be trusted or not. This is how we left them without complete information, because whoever pays probably has some interest in making it happen. Here it is interest to create a sense of collective guilt in the Serbian people, through the work of these NGOs, and to declare criminals to be victims. He needs to see who's funding it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21341	We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After break, 15.00]] We're going back to work. Is anyone answering for a word, by Article 35? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure, submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing to amend the title above Articles 41 and 41. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 42. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 47. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. An MP named Milorad Krstin submitted to the 51st Amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand how many proposed law on state audits there are members? The legislator, in the material delivered to the Assembly, speaks in the light of the law about 67 members of the law, and in the proposal there are 65. We can document that, gentlemen. It's 65 here. 66th and 67ths don't exist, they're out. Turns out two members of the law are written in invisible ink or are known only to the promoter, or we will read about them when President Tadic signs them. Most of the time, who reads more carefully, will see that the reasons for the proposal itself are not the happiest ones, i.e. that something is missing and well exaggerated, which is not the first time. After all, this law deals most with the election and appointment of members of the Council of the Institution. This does not surprise us, because it is necessary to house worthy members of the ruling coalition's party and give them the opportunity to determine the audit entities in accordance with the draft of this law over the next six years. That is, you, when you propose and choose them, will determine in your work plans, and by your order and by the watchful eye of the Ministry of Finance, which municipalities and public enterprises will audit, which they will not. It should not be wise to guess that in municipalities where the government represents the SRS, and these are more and more, and in public enterprises where most of the boards of directors of our party, or the directors of our party, they will constantly be state auditors who will seek "hair in the egg", and, by order of the Council, challenge any decision and way of working in these municipalities, institutions and public enterprises, local communities, and various associations, such as military people with disabilities, etc., just because they are members or supporters of our party. We're not afraid of that, because we honor ourselves with all the duties we take on ourselves. But we won't think of the members of the Council and the president because he's not independent, because he can be a party member, not a functionary, whether he's a bagal party official, he is, what if his own wife or girlfriend is an DS or a G17 official, or, God forbid, a godfather in a random role to perform an audit function in such audit entities. After all, this law will also be changed by adding a series of amendments and additions, unless we amend it and make a modern European law when we come to power, because it is not intended for the institution of state audit, which would protect and control taxpayers' money, or our citizens' money, as well as the money that others give you for NGOs and other organisations over the next two years, how much longer you are in power. This law will not start to apply properly, but we will change it. Besides, the same thing happened in other countries in the environment, I guess this law of yours on the state audit institution isn't an exception, is it? It is brought today only to be brought, for the sake of the European Union, so that you can boast that you are still trying, and the actual application of it is politically and economically controlled on your part. You just want to win the vision of goodwill by creating an institution like this by law. You're not for real control. Spending people's money, you know how and who spends it and whose warrant. Since I am, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, tabled an amendment to the draft law on the state audit institution of the following content: "In Article 51(5) to delete", the argument follows. Donations for the start of work of such an institution, under the draft law, can be provided – a domestic legal entity, which is not an audit entity, in accordance with the proposal of this law, or a foreign legal person, or a natural person. Deleting this attitude is necessary in order to avoid any material and moral interference in the independence and objectivity of the work of state audit institutions. The draft law unclearly distinguishes the relationship of the audit entity with those other than the audit entity, which is probably the aim of the promoter. Unconnection cannot be guaranteed and difficult to establish, especially in transition countries, such as ours, in which economic, political and all other interests are realised through various visions, call, help. If it were subsequently established that the donor was in any way linked to the audit entity, it would clearly conclude that by means of a donation and further delivery of financial assistance it could affect or have already affected the Council and President of the Council, or the Institution, to suspend audit operations under this law. The audit operations provided for by this law may damage the interest of the donor or of the person providing financial assistance, i.e. the provision of the donor discredits the institution's independence, as it can be brought or linked to the donation of legal and natural persons to the non-compliance with the audit institution's programme, which are in indirect interest with the donor, for example, the non-governmental sector. Deleting this article protects independence and safeguards the reality, objectivity and impartiality of the state audit institution and prevents any influence on the institution and its dependence on other persons' economic assistance, thus safeguarding the credibility of the institution and the argument that it is corrupt, bought and paid not to audit individuals, and in accordance with this proposal. Mr. Minister, this law will not pass with the MPs of the SRS, regardless of the major amendments the SRS has made. He can't go through like this, and it would be best, Mr. Secretary, if you could pull him out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21344	Mr. Parivodić is not in charge of this law, so he can't even pull it. The promoter is the MPs, not the government. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have come to the essence of this law, and we have come to what all institutions cannot tomorrow. Article 51(5), for which MP Krstin asked to be deleted, reads: "The start of the institution's work may be financed from the funding of a donation from a non-audited domestic legal entity, in accordance with this law or by a foreign legal or natural person". Today, we had a dilemma about whether this institution was reviewing the financial resources of NGOs, so you said in one article that it couldn't. In Article 11, you say you can. Now we come to this, so Natasa Kandic will not directly finance the start of this audit institution's work, but whoever finances Natasu Kandic will also finance the start of the institution's work. Because it is said that it can be financed from donations made by a domestic or foreign legal person, so Mr Soros, since he already pays Natasha, will pay the one who will be the head of this audit institution not to exercise control of Natasha's financial resources. I mean Natasa Kandić, but besides, there is little difference between Biljana Kovacevic-Vučević and Sonja Biserko and some other Natasha, except for, of course, Natasa Jovanovic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the People, who pay, have the right to the privileges. It will be a privilege not to enter the financial books of these companies and organisations, institutions and everything else. I think it's about time this morning, before this law started to be discussed, that this law should be withdrawn. We went so far as to get to the last of these two last members. We'll discuss the last amendment, but it's wise for you from the ruling structure to take this off the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21346	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21347	The chairman wasn't in the O.R. this morning, so let's get back to what we talked about. There is no Radojko Obradovic, probably writing a text withdrawing this bill from the procedure. If by any chance he cannot do so, the Prime Minister present, although not according to this agenda, I warn that this law does not have a constitutional basis. This morning, some tried to defend Radojkov's bill. All of you who defend this bill, on the occasion of this amendment to Article 51 paragraph 5, I would ask you to read that Article 51, which has its title – "Employments to work", so when it turns a few pages and comes to page 17 of the reasoning, stands there – "Article 51." This is underlined, it reads -- "It is prescribed that the work of the Institution is public, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, which will be organised closer to the way the public is informed of the work of the Institution". Based on this reasoning for article 51, the name of this member is “public of labor”, but the name and the substance that this member treats is “the means of work”. You're making us vote for something, and the promoter doesn't even know what he wrote. I would ask you to turn another page of the reasoning, where it is said, "The estimated amount of funding needed to implement the law", so if we skip the first and second paragraphs where they provide some information on administrative practice, we will get to these paragraphs, which are roughly like this: "The initial funds that would be allocated would be used for the current operating costs of the Institution, the training of state auditors and IT equipment to start the work of the Institution (the initial number of employees would be about 40 to 50 employees). There is a real possibility that part of the financial resources needed to start the work of the institution can be provided through international technical assistance from other donor sources as well." We are coming to the essence of Mr. Krstin's amendment, which requires that attitude 5 be deleted, which allows for the financing of the work of this, as you say, by the institutions, by means of funds from abroad. Of course, we consistently represent our position when adopting the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget. You remember, in the section relating to the President of the Republic, donor funds are also planned for the President of the Republic. If the permanent source of funds for all your imaginary institutions should be donor funds, then it's approximately, by the system that there's free cheese in the mousefish, but then you know what the result of such free cheese is. I also have here a document from the American Embassy, a memo, where certain gentlemen have received $6,780 in 1997, of course, on their hands, because Americans have to keep exact records when they pay off some listeners and informants from the embassy, so there's someone for whom and for what. This is for the student movement, for furniture and other funds necessary for destructive action against the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'd take the chance, it won't be a big abuse, since I'm going to promote Professor Smile Avram's book a little bit. In a book recently published, she explained the complete system of the functioning of NGOs. They're not NGOs here to take money from abroad, to make their leaders fatter like that Dereta in the Civil Initiative. It is a deliberate, destructive work to destroy the state tissue of the Republic of Serbia. Teached by this knowledge, the promoter suggests that someone from abroad finance an independent institution in the system of state administration. Please, nebulosis to nebulosis. I just don't believe there's anyone in the government who can read a bill like this. I call on the government to give a negative opinion, to influence its MPs in the National Assembly, and to reject this bill, so that we forget today with these pangs of debates over a nebulous proposal. Please, experts, you who criticise us for raising our voice over this bill, find me a member of 66th and 67th. It's a bill of law. He's got it in his mind, but he's not in the text of the bill. What are you experts for? For cheating, for what? How did you come up with the idea of inserting this into the state tissue of the Republic of Serbia, something for which there is no constitutional basis, and even inventing members that are not there? Now you're making us vote. We don't want to vote, but we're going to demean you in every place, so the citizens of Serbia can see what is the destructive policy of the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21348	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Zoran Angelkovic. First, everyone has the right to be against the bill, but let's get one thing straight. This is not a legal project of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. After all, no government in the world, I don't believe this one, doesn't like to be controlled, especially to control financial flows. We now have on the agenda, better to say, the fact that the current budgetary resources of the Serbian government and the ministries, public enterprises and budget users should be controlled under the existing legal arrangements by budgetary inspection. All those who dispute the law know that the 2000 budget inspection was exclusively used for political dealings with political opponents. More specifically, Djelic used it to deal with people who were in power until then, primarily with the SPS people, and the good work of both ministers and other SRS officials, who were then in power. Budgetary inspection, which wasn't even a budget inspection, but consisted of a stake and a rope, of different kind. Your experts, under the form of a budget inspection, had a mandate to file criminal charges, to investigate how money was spent, whether these money was spent on buying one chair, or five chairs, whether they were in accordance with the budget law or not, that, when the first budget came to the agenda, the Budget Act, the abuse of the official position for non-intentional use in the budget, in fact, Djelic would have deleted immediately as a criminal provision. So he protected himself. Also, I remind you that here in the Serbian Parliament we have not yet adopted the final bill for 2002, 2003 and 2004. So we still don't have a report on the spending of DOS funds, not ministries, not government, not public enterprises, not any other institution. Why don't we? Because we don't have an institution that adequately, in a way that will mean neutrality, controls. I always agree that the issue in a country like this, which has the right to change, etc., neutrality, relative matter, and even independent institutions, but some independent institution, which will have the right to control the distribution of these funds. I personally intervened at the request of some of the presidents of the municipalities. Don't think it's at the request of some of the presidents of the municipalities that are from the SPS. I even intervened, on several occasions, in the Ministry of Finance, to have the budgetary inspection control over the spending of funds in the municipality of Sjenica, where the president of the municipality from Ljajic's party. After five, six, or ten interventions, I realized there was no budgetary inspection and there was no body to control the spending of these funds. We are all also aware of the fact that over the past few years there have been non-intentional spending of funds in a significant number of municipalities, at least in increasing the number of employees. We have municipalities that had 170 employees, such as Kruševac, now has 540, and other municipalities that have multipled several times the number of employees, which is also a non-intentional spending, or better to say, the waste of state money and money from Serbian citizens. That's why it's necessary to build an institution to control it. Whether this law is ideal, we can talk about it, and whether it can change in certain segments. But such an audit institution and institutions that will control the spending of citizens' money in ministries, which is not related to the Ministry of Finance, nor to any ministry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will control every citizen of Serbia spent in local self-government and public enterprises, and to all institutions that are direct or indirect state money users, is necessary in the country of Serbia, if we want to control budget funds. Of course, the MPs prefer that there is no such control because they are more likely to attack the spending of these funds. I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia and for the MPs to know the real situation and how these funds are being spent. Next week we'll have a budget and we'll adopt the budget. Once we adopt the budget, we can discuss whether it's big money or not. But who controls whether that money is enough or not and whether it is functionally used, in the end, and whether these adequate funds are enough, or too large for an appropriate institution? Every minister, and Mladjan Dinkic, wants to close the deal and make it all right where money is given. It takes an institution to control a young man or any other young man. That institution can be called different. It is here in the proposal called the Supreme Revised Institution and it is in line, I say to you, with European standards, with our closest European standards. It's acceptable. It's closest to the Slovenian model. And if this institution is built in the right way, if it works in the right way, and it will depend on us, and what kind of personnel solutions will be chosen in that supreme audit facility, the MPs, based on the law, will be informed about each, if I may say so, the audit being carried out, and the way the funds are spent. I guess we, as people's representatives, are interested in getting to the exact state of spending each of Serbia's citizens' dinars. That's why this facility is necessary. Is every member ideal? We can discuss this on the Finance Committee. We talked about every amendment in person. Perhaps another amendment could be accepted. That's not controversial. We can talk about that now. Initial funds are always necessary for an institution. Whether or not the EU should be allowed to make adequate donations, but the essence of this law is necessary, the essence of this law is needed. This law needs the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens to make sure that some institution controls the spending of those taxpayers and their allocations in various budgets, agencies, directorates, etc. We spoke here, and I have repeatedly said that the formation of various agencies, directors, offices, whatever, throwing money to Serbian citizens, taxpayers, I will not say budget, although there is no one controlling spending money, then MPs will come to the agenda. Now you have agencies, some executives have five or six times the salary and no one touches them, no one mentions them, they're just on the agenda always MPs. Let's talk about it, let's see the exact situation. Who's going to file that report? Now we've got three proposals from the Finance Committee who's going to control the budget. We got it from Deloitte & Touche and two other companies. From what the Ministry has called a contest, it should only get "Deloitte & Touche". I told the board, though, I must confess to my colleagues that we will not participate. We won't vote on the non-competition, which the Ministry made, that only "Deloitte & Touche" could be that budget manager. What you were saying, which I agree with, means that Vlahovic himself needs to control himself, what he did and how he spent his money in 2002, 2003 and 2004. We'd better postpone the analysis of that budget, get to an independent institution, which will review the budget before we get this kind of institution, rather than be in a position to control itself by the one who participates in spending these funds. That is why we need an institution like this, which should be formed as soon as possible, and we as MPs need to do everything, although this is not what the Government has proposed. (SRS emissaries warning on time. I haven't timed out. It was 6:57, now it's 15 minutes, I've got nine minutes left. So don't worry. I'm very closely following both jobs at the same time. That's what I learned. So the government didn't suggest this. He proposed a Committee on Finance, the MPs proposed, who were on this work or project for six months, with people from different political parties and all political parties were invited to give one representative to participate in this committee. Why isn't someone, it's his right to work and not work. But I am convinced that this is useful for the citizens of Serbia, for the MPs, and especially for the opposition MPs in parliament -- the existence of one such institution, through which they will be able to use and receive information and demand data on spending funds in various institutions, so as not to speak to each other about data that are sometimes correct, or not true. Of course, every political party has the right to vote differently, but I am convinced and I claim that this is necessary and useful for the citizens of Serbia and for the taxpayers, to have an institution that guarantees that every penny is being spent, and therefore I am convinced that this law should be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of every law is to be brief, clear, concise and not leave no doubt about the laymen who read it, especially with experts. I have submitted the amendment and requested that Article 1 paragraph 2 be deleted. Paragraph 2 reads: "The law can, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and EU regulations, regulate external trade in certain types of goods or services". This Article 1st Section 2 tells us that there's something we can do. The law must be precise to say: it will be done, it must be done, if it is regulated by law. Therefore, Article 1(2) of the Law should be deleted because it is excessive and inaccurate. In light of the reasons for the law's adoption, it is also said that the law is set out in certain rules of various international organisations, and it is also too high to state it in the law itself. That is why I propose that the proposing representative come out and say that he adopts this amendment to delete Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21352	Otherwise, we have to ask the Minister for every amendment, since the minister has declared that he will explain the amendments here. Minister, you must plead. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: Unacceptable. He doesn't accept the minister. Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21353	This amendment wanted the SRS to, above all, draw attention to the fact that when the Foreign Trade Act was passed, it was likely desirable to consider the Foreign Trade Act at the same session, because they do make an organic continent. In the position of the first member, you said that this law regulates external trade. In this way you want to make it clear to the fullness of this provision that this law, as a single one, regulates external trade, knowing that there are certain other regulations governing external trade. I'll just list some. For example, the regulation governing the transport of weapons, the regulation governing the transport of gold, is found in the Foreign Exchange Act, and I do not order any further. There are other regulations. If you wanted to express that specificity, then you could have done it the other way. You chose a way that was confusing. You say, in paragraph 2, where we are making practical interventions that the law can, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and EU regulations, regulate external trade in certain types of goods or services. By this law, in Article 1(2), you say that some other law will regulate itself and you immediately gave a definition of the framework for this law. You took the EU and the World Trade Organisation. This is inappropriate in this way to regulate, despite the fact that in the Constitutional Charter of Bosko Ristić stands the primate of international regulations that we have ratified in relation to domestic regulations. You do not have a country where you give primate to international regulations in relation to domestic legislation. No need to explain, I know these things very well. It's contrary to the definition of sovereignty. Take care when you explain. Sovereignty is the sacred right of every state. You are aware that the EU rules that regulate this, so cannot be said, but, conditionally speaking, foreign trade, or trade, are based on recommendations, directives, autonomous rights of individual countries, as regards the reserves they have expressed for individual EU strategic definitions. They also have the right to the proper reserves, in line with their economic policy. You're aware of that. We have a situation where binding importance is recommended by the Council of Ministers of the EU, with binding importance being recommended by the minister, which is the situation with the Netherlands and Belgium. The law is a general framework, and after the minister's orders, the directives prescribe these things. You forgot that your leadership for this law must be the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about the World Trade Organization. You know the problems that exist at the World Trade Organisation. Giants, giant states, have trouble with the rules of the World Trade Organisation. You know there's an outside store all over the world holding Rotari Club. That's what they're saying. They say in their brochure: we Rotarians rule world trade. That's what their interest determines. You read poorly, you did not read enough this area, and in any ministry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia you could find a huge book on the World Trade Organisation, there is a book in all ministries. So the Uruguayan negotiations, these, them, some rules, etc. You know it. You don't have the right to install something that you don't even realize is a principle. So we support the concept – one law on foreign trade, which generally regulates foreign trade. We agree. The possibility of individual laws, depending on some specificities, which are technical, etc. And we can accept that, but to start by putting something as a principle, an undefined principle, we can't accept it, as we can't accept that one law says that another law will regulate it, on the principles of that and that. If it were the normal Republic Legislative Secretariat, you'd get a big lecture on Article 2 of this Bill's proposal and the Republic Secretary of Law would give it back to you and tell you that this is not a norm. This is a political declaration, a desire, a commitment – it was like Grandma, so she imagined it could be like that. Do not burden your norm with passwords. It's a clean password and it appears in some other places. Since you're thinking right now, I'm going to talk you out of it, don't get too smart. I'm telling you, if you adopt Mr. Markovic's amendment, nothing your concept of the law loses, it gets much more. Why does he get so much more? It gets because, as minister, you get the right to say, "please, when it comes to this goods, we will see what the interests of the Republic of Serbia, the economic operators in the Republic of Serbia, and whether we should accept anything and anything that is pushed against us." The European Union became strong the moment it stabilised its internal market for agricultural products. Isn't that right, Minister? That's right. When she forced farmers to fight for quotas and secure stable production, food security, now everyone who exports something from agriculture to the European Union is funding agriculture in Europe. For years you haven't had those protests in France, Italy, Spain, to throw goods, etc. Food security has ensured the stability of the European Union. I don't want to give you statistics right now. It's known how many sugar reserves they have in their paws. They probably have their sugar reserves in three, four years. The European Union's overall agrarian policy is based on the fight for quotas in order to ensure stable production. It's a closed market. No one can tell us it's an open market. If it was open, and the Cranian sausage from Slovenia would go to the European Union, but it can't go, there's some percentage of moisture more than it should, so they're running faster and better here. Those who shot 55 soldiers, thanks to Svilanovic, who opened "Merkator" here and drove this people crazy to hire his wife, want to install them through Serbia on the Russian market. That's what you know. It's their interest. They closed the market there. Take care. So in all the provisions of this law where there are rules, codified, verified, international economic relations in the function of free trade between economic operators from different states, you have support from the SRS. In those provisions, where you open our market as a can, as Labus did in early 2001, so he let go of everything, he could import anything he wanted. What did they import in 2001? Excessive goods produced in Serbia to compete with our producers. There's a businessman here, no one's going to deny what I said, because he felt it on his skin. This law should also be in the function of preserving and developing our production and satisfying, above all, our interests. Every country protects its interests. Don't convince me that I should protect the interests of Philipps or some other company from abroad. No, I don't. Why would I protect their interests, if our citizens can't get a job, they can't provide existence with their work? You're similar to abroad because you opened everything for their products. I didn't bring you that study here. You know about the White Paper, which was published in 2001, the conditions for EU accession and the adverse consequences of EU rules on agriculture. You have an example of Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary. From a large exporter, it became an agrarian and food-dependent state in one period. Take care of what you do. This opening must be with a measure, above all, of the interest of our economic operators and citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21354	Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21355	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, when I think about amendments, I look at the content of the amendments, and less where the parties come from. Don't think I have any prejudice towards the amendments coming from the SRS. This will not be a reason for accepting, or not accepting. Mr. Krasic and I agreed on two things. The fact is that this law is general, that in a general way it regulates external trade and that we do not have the opportunity to regulate trade in all specific forms of goods, such as gold, arms, medicines, etc., and that we leave it to other laws to be regulated for a particular type of goods, i.e. services. So that's the concept of Article 1. First, to regulate that this law is the only one that regulates in a general way external trade operations, and secondly, to restrict the way in which the special law will regulate external trade operations of a particular type of goods, or services, so that these specific laws are incorporated into the general scheme of this law, so that we do not have a situation, in fact, that our special laws fall out of the general law principle. That's the reason. This law has been made in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and of the European Union, and the reason for that is that we want to enter the European Union and the World Trade Organisation and that, as a rule, if you want to enter a club, you have to accept the rules of that club, or you will get out, or you will not be admitted to that club. These are very simple rules. This country and people have defined themselves to enter the European Union. We have determined to enter the World Trade Organization. That is why we are setting the frameworks for a legal and sub-legislative arrangement, so that our own legislative activity would not lead us to the inability to achieve this objective of joining the European Union and the World Trade Organisation. The fact is, and that should be understood by all lawyers, not just lawyers, but by people in politics at all, that the principle of absolute sovereignty no longer exists in the international community. De Gaulle said in time: "Only one who has an atomic bomb is sovereign." Unfortunately, it's an objective situation. So, both Germany and Britain, and France, and those countries that joined the World Trade Organisation, and three-quarters of all countries in the world, have adopted certain rules of conduct that they have incorporated into their legislation. In this way, by accepting these rules, they decided not to jump out of them and to keep their legal system in line with these rules. We can't want to get into something without jumping out of the rules of what we want to get into. It is not necessary to send contradictory messages to our people that sovereignty is being violated, that this is a servile relationship, etc. It is simply a recognition of the reality of the modern world, and that reality is that these countries, such as the United States, Russia, Germany, Britain, France, Italy, have agreed to these rules and we just need to do the same, and that is not at all humiliating. If the great nations can afford that luxury, I'm sure we can, too. If there weren't these margins, the parameters for the future arrangement, then maybe we could pass some laws that aren't in line with these rules, and then we'd have to change them, and that would create an extra job for you, which isn't our goal. That is the reason for this position 2 and that is why I am standing by to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21356	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21357	Mr. Minister, in time I warned you to be careful when you talk about sovereignty and sovereignty. In time, I warned you that this initial principle contained in Article 1(2). The bill, it disrupts the normal flow of things that would have to be present in the law, and you see, this amendment that we submitted to Article 4 also in Section 1 has a World Trade Organisation. There are eight principles, it is known when a state can impose certain restrictions, as it is notified, etc. With this fairy tale of yours about the World Trade Organisation and the EU, probably the largest number of citizens know that many countries, even giants, have problems with the World Trade Organisation. It is an association that is under the absolute predominance of the United States, where through these liberal methods in trade, essentially they protect their market positions. Five of America's largest oil companies hold 68% of total traffic, market participation is huge. I would like to remind you of one example, you have misused it for the propaganda purposes of this government, I think it was half a year ago, as the EU has concluded with us the Free Trade Agreement of Textiles, Confections, etc. You forgot one thing, that the World Trade Organisation had made a decision four months before and allowed China to freely export textiles to Europe. Why? There's an interest. In Western Europe, there's no more serial confection, it's all going east, they don't have any interest in it anymore. I don't count those big fashion houses that have some amount of goods that have specific customers, so there's no big interest. Taiwan, China, cheap labour, free of charge. And here you boasted that our textile industry would develop so much. We'll see at the end of the year statistics. I don't think there's gonna be 50% of your expectations. It's your expectation, you have the right to think of it, because our textile confection simply broke and freed that someone opened the market when there's nothing to export, there's no goods because the market is open, our market is on the table. Any goods you take, we don't have a manufacturer anymore. We don't have a manufacturer of white techniques, we don't have a TV manufacturer. It's about permanent-consumptive goods, with a period of use of 10 years, etc. So on one case, you could see how it worked. Let me remind you of some small things. We have to fit those rules. Here's the Secretary of Defense of the United States fit those rules, in the 1980s offering Saddam Hussein chemical poisons against the Kurds and the Iranians, all the newspapers write about it. Here's Dick Chaney, present in Iraq for representing a large oil company. I know the name, but I'm having a bad time with that English, and it's disgusting to me, and I'm not going to play Vuk Draskovic with a Mexican accent. Perhaps you ministers don't know, inform Vojislav Kostunica who built the Bondsteel military base – a private company that works with the Pentagon, which has its own strategic interest. There's a debate going on in America whether George Soros has earned $1 fairly. He's gone, starting with Malaysia, so here we go. It's a fitting you're pleading for, and this one that's sovereign in some territory has supreme authority and depends on his will. See for yourself how stretchy these rules are. The authorities in Serbia are not responding – sanctions are being imposed. The authorities respond – trade is allowed, but they keep money in the private accounts of Mladjan Dinkic, those couples from Cyprus, etc. Read what Borka Vukic writes almost in the newspaper, our money from the Belgrade Bank in America blocked, and it's a foreign exchange. For your information, Minister, please inform Vojislav Kostunica. Former US Ambassador to Yugoslavia Lawrence Iglberger was the director of the Ljubljana Bank of New York in years of apart, stolen money from Serbia. That's what we're supposed to fit into. We don't want the ministers to fit in, don't make us go there, we don't want to go. Let me go back to this amendment, because if I have to go out more than once, I'm going to explain to you, I have everything, specifically, that banking group, that I'm not telling you. I guess on Sunday we'll talk about Kosovo and Metohija, and we'll say where Suroji, who belongs to, where Kissinger, who represents the military lobby, who represents the oil lobby, who acts on the media, and that lawyer's office that works here. That must be said to the citizens, not to say that the vice president was sick, he had to raise his foot to high ground because of the circulation, so they came to him for negotiations. Serious things happen. To these citizens, someone needs to answer why they lost their jobs, how their work has become worthless, how to ensure existence. In Serbia, and when she gives birth and she doesn't give birth, a peasant gets hurt. You say - it's not good that we send these signals. I don't send them signals, they send them to me. They ring us and say, "Well, people, if you're gonna stop this, we're out of business, we're not doing anything." This mobster bought this company, this one, this one, for six wars bought this, Karic doesn't know if he is a citizen of Kosovo and Metohija, Peci, Serbia, Canada, England. People get confused. Now mobsters deal with politics. So I don't go to jail -- Serbia's Force Movement, without this one going to be treated by drug abuse, he's a Liberal-Democratic faction. That's what you have to tell the citizens. This article refers to restrictions. Well, it's a good thing there's some limitations, that it can't all be on its own. There must be some limitations. When we get to the field of limitations, I call on everyone from that DOS, who talked about positive flows, liberalization of foreign trade. We should let everything be free. That's how they worked for a few years. Where are the funds? Where are the reserves? Where are the material balances? We imported wheat. Where's the stable policy here? What is the benefit of the state of Milosavljevic's Chamber of Commerce – this chamber that advises this unintelligent president? What good is that? Where's our balance sheet? How do they form? Who controls this law? It's customs day-to-day, isn't it, Minister? Customs controls it every day, if it's a goods contingent, goods quantities, etc. The financial aspect, in the second hand of the National Bank of Serbia, goes through banks, we put everything on the table. You come out, I have nothing against you, one of the government members, or these Trpkovics, Angelkovics, not this Angelkovic, but that one, they're talking. People who haven't done anything in their lives say anything. Nothing like that forestman, the former building minister, designed a garage either. They speak sweetly, and yet you come to the European Movement, and economists, NGOs, experts, and this Medojevic appears. Ask him what he's done in life: he's a machine engineer and he's an economy operator. What did he do? He only built a factory. When you sit down to talk business, you ask for a reference first. When it comes to building – reference; when it comes to a job – please, let me see what traffic you've worked with, what companies you've worked with, how much foreign trade business – $10 million and up; how many jobs do you have of $100 million? Don't be like Djindjic, he said – a million tons of wheat has been exported. He doesn't know what that amount is. It was 100,000 tons, and someone added zero and there's a million. Then Cavlin defends him here so he doesn't get convicted. It can't be like that. The job has to be done by people who know how to do the job; do you know what the job is – 100,000 tons to gather, to dress, to board, there's a whole science. People don't know what business is, they bid, they say things. With this amendment, of course, we support these restrictions, but the restriction of the entry into force on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", unless otherwise prescribed by this law, given that you have prescribed a 30-day period in this position. You can probably see why we asked that if a restriction was prescribed, it would come into effect immediately, because whoever first came to the information that there would be a restriction, he finished the job. If you put the restriction into force within 30 days or 30 days after the restriction has been made public, then there is nothing. It's simply an amendment to the experience. Those who wrote these amendments and living needs to protect our stock funds. Take care, without the protection of goods funds that need to provide food, production and any other safety of citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there is no work, no life. That's what anyone who exercises power is expected to do. Nice – not handsome, smart – stupid, it doesn't matter, but it is expected to provide security. That's why we're in favor of these restrictions, because we know what our practice is. You know those who are at the source of information, and you know especially those who installed their people in your parties and in the ministries. Karic has a third each: a third of the Supreme Court, something small in police, customs, banks, ministries; he gets all the information. These Tadics and Chadini have their own wherever you want. In a minute, the information goes away, and it's all ready and done. Don't, as one of the MPs here boasted about the previous law – we have the law. We need law, we need enforcement. We need what we have to be in accordance with the Constitution. Although he never quoted me as a member of 66th and 67th. Next time, let him submit the amendments when such a situation arises.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21358	I thank Mr. Zoran Krasic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Government accept the amendment? The government doesn't accept the amendment. We're moving on to the next amendment. Ambassador Milan Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21359	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has helped me a lot with Article 4 where I have submitted an amendment in front of the SPS to item 6, to replace the number "30" with the number "8". I think it is necessary, if it is already a restriction to achieve efficiency, that the time limit cannot be shorter than eight days, which is enough to allow all possible actions to be taken to implement the restriction, and it is certain that the damage, which could possibly occur within 30 days, would be significantly reduced. I suggest that in the day of voting my amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21360	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? There you go. There's a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21361	These two amendments are subject to the same objective, with one suggesting that the deadline be reduced from 30 days to immediately, and the other to eight days from the day of publication. What's the point of 30 days is that we're not going to punish someone and immediately block them. We have so-called "emergency" for special emergency situations. temporary measures, which shall take effect within eight days of the day of publication. When we have these lasting measures, they are not taken in a brief procedure. It is a process that is quite complex, implies a lot of analysis and consultation. The point of this kind of procedure is not to surprise someone, but to bring balance to the market or remove some disparity, some kind of unfair game that comes from those who import into the country, not specifically to make it impossible for someone to do business, but to bring balance into the system for the longer term. So, not specifically to punish a particular company and say, you can't, unless it's a particularly urgent situation, then I'm introducing an intervention measure. I'm introducing a new regime here. When you introduce a new regime, you have to leave people time to get acquainted with it and adapt to it. As a result, these principles of the World Trade Organisation provide for the 30-day deadline. That's why we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21362	I thank the Minister. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has submitted an amendment proposing that Article 7a be added after Article 7. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia's bill showing that someone did not take this matter so seriously when the law was written, so we have the consequence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also investing amendments. I've been listening to Mr. Minister's discussions on the previous amendments, regarding this article 12, but I think Mr. Minister may have mixed up the pots and lids a little bit. Mr. Minister claims that the terms of the WTO have also been accepted by the United States, Russia, China, Germany, France, Great Britain, right? Just one question, who laid down those rules? It was determined by the United States, Germany, France, etc. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: all of them together. It is, all together, to protect first of all their market and to secure new markets. Mr. Minister, you haven't discovered America, and in that case, you haven't discovered hot water. You mentioned China and Russia. Let the WTO, or Germany and France, say to Russia, what will happen – turn their gas back. Who can put pressure on who? No one can, but we accept some rules and forget the fact that our economy is capable of dealing with economies of countries that are potential importers to Serbia. Are you providing customs protection to our economy? No, customs rates are extremely low. Our economy is technologically lagging behind the economies of the importing countries in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the only thing exported from here is semi-serious or raw materials. We witnessed this in the 1990s, in particular in 1997, when the exports of live cattle and meat made a collapse of the entire economic system in Serbia. There's been a brand drop in 100 percent. You're talking about some deadlines - 30 days. You know what can happen in Serbia, which is a relatively small market, to be imported in 30 days and how large these supplies can be? In 30 days, they can fill the market. Which one of these benefits? He used to have an importer. Anyone who has any harm is a domestic economy. Who suffers direct consequences? Citizens working in the domestic economy, Minister. You're talking about the market, and you're forgetting about the citizens. I guess this government and it exists for them, they need to work in their interest, I guess they need to protect, their jobs and the businesses they work in. So these rules that have been established are prescribed by those who are able to implement them, for their own protection and for the sake of new markets, possibly raw bases. We fully agree that there is a basis for joining the WTO, the EU, etc. But the question is, what are the deadlines when are we going to be able to do that? Some say 2001 either, and some say 2010, and in 2010, it is not close, so it has been moved to 2012, and we are already talking about 2016 and 2020. Are we going to destroy our own economy first and then join the EU, the WTO or are we going to work on getting the domestic economy to be equal not only on our market, but also on theirs. The problem with our economy is that it cannot withstand the pressure of an import lobby on the domestic market, let alone to place something out of the country. The only thing we can place is raw materials and nothing else. When Milosevic tried low prices for agricultural products to buy social peace, some used it to earn huge money. It's that import-export lobby, but nobody exported an industrial product, but raw materials, disrupted the market, ruined the economy and the citizens, and now what? Since 2001, imports into Serbia who arrive and how they arrive, we are also aware of these facts. There was a drop in production. The fact that someone is trying through statistical methods to show the growth of a product or gross national income is stories for small children. The fact is that domestic goods are becoming less and less involved in consumption on the domestic market. Someone needs to imagine where we're going. I understand that it is products that are not on the domestic market, but this is also about the fact that food is primarily imported into Serbia. Remember in 2002 and 2003, why was the price of living cattle so low? Why did she go to ruin domestic livestock funds? Because the import lobby placed goods of suspicious quality, suspected origin on the domestic market, specific meat, meat processing, milk and milk processing. We've ruined part of the economy, especially when it comes to large cattle, for decades. Now we're talking about whether temporary or permanent measures should take place within 30 days. You've already announced by publishing in the Official Messenger that for certain types of goods it will be impossible within 30 days or more, because you say it can't be less than 30. It means that the deadline may be longer; you have announced a ban on imports. What will the importers do then? It's normal to import huge quantities. They have accumulated more than 20 billion euros in capital over the last 15 years, with money for that kind of thing. By the time you decide to introduce temporary measures - eaten by a donkey wolf, almost, the goods came in, what are you going to do with it? Article 12, which is subject to the amendment, concerns compensation. It is said that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, can prescribe administrative compensation for administrative services that authorities, i.e. persons entrusted with public authority, provide to persons in foreign trade only if necessary for the compensation of costs for the really provided administrative services. We say, no problem. So someone provides a favor, decides to charge it, or to cover the costs. It is further said that – the amount of administrative compensation referred to in Article 1 cannot be higher real costs for the services provided. The government of the Republic of Serbia will probably take care of that. She enforces the law, determines the amount of compensation. But what kind of parameter is that now? Is that going to be per unit of measure? Will it be percentage on the contingent, on the value of the goods, on what? It is further said that – it represents the indirect protection of domestic persons, goods or services. That's what you're always afraid of, and in every law you have to write, because you're afraid that someone might charge you with extra customs safeguards against imports. Yes, you do. Admit it. But I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, and in EU countries, it's always about the principle of disparity. It is a closed market in EU-wide countries. As soon as one party in that circle debalances the situation, protection measures appear immediately, whether they are customs or non-tariff. You're giving up that right in advance. Thirdly, I think it's a completely extra point, it's said to be a means of collecting income. In the next position, you say that the funds, charged in accordance with the provisions of this article, are the income of the Republic's budget. Therefore, the amount of the administrative compensation referred to in Article 1 shall not constitute a means of collecting revenue. Isn't that regulated in points 1 and 2? It's a completely extra point. In any case, this is a technical amendment that tries to, at least in technical terms, correct this law and I would like the mandated representative of the Proposer to be declared on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21364	I thank Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The government accepts this amendment. They didn't bother for nothing, Mr. Arsic. He has the word Minister Parivodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21365	If you will allow me, since Mr Krasic and the esteemed previous speaker spoke about general economic issues, the general situation in the economy, the level of customs protection in our country has been said to be very low. We have an average customs rate of around 8.7%, which is not a low customs rate, especially for those products that we produce. I completely agree that our food industry is quite good and that in this sense there is no point in eating an Italian mortadella that costs 800 dinars, if we have ours for 250 dinars. I'm surprised at those people who are willing to pay 800 dinars, when they can buy an equal or perhaps better price for 250 dinars. However, I would like to highlight one of my visions. It's SFRY. Everyone remembers well, maybe the youngest don't remember, the SFRY went bankrupt in 1983. In the summer of 1983, SFRY went bankrupt. She didn't have the money to pay her external debts anymore. Then they began to rebuke ships owned by our citizenship and arrest our planes at international airports. It was a golden time that was talked about so much, with such piety and nostalgia we remember when we were broke. The SFRY went bankrupt in 1983, and we came out of bankruptcy in 2001. Between 1983 and 2001, we were a bankrupt country. It wasn't Miroljub Labus, it wasn't the current government that did it by taking down customs, it was the protectionist economy of the system at the time and the bad, closed, non-competitive economy. The economic politicisation has led to the country's bankruptcy and shame from 1983 to 2001. It's only after October 5th that this country is on its feet. Remember that. Protectionism is not a solution. It's a matter of sleeves, thoughts, and work. It's a rule for the country's progress. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21366	I thank Minister Parivovich. I hope the citizens of Serbia believe that after October 5th, they have come out of the crisis, as they surely live better now, it is visible, only they have nothing to eat. He has Mrs Stojanović's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21367	My remark was only that I asked the Mr. Chairman to come out for a pay phone when he wanted to comment after the minister, and, as with every MP, he expressed his position. That was my remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21368	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21369	Perhaps the minister is right. We may have bankrupted in 1983 and it is possible that he is right that in the 1970s and 80s millions of dwellings have not been divided into Serbian citizens. It is possible that Serbian citizens think that on October 5th they lived better, when 500,000 were out of work, that the problem, which followed after October 5th with customs and with what was happening, did not contribute to the sugar affair and criminalisation of society and something that happened after that, has not been clarified until today. We supported this government to discuss how there was a sugar affair. I hope that Mrs Plassic will be this energetic with her party president, that he, as Deputy Prime Minister, finally discusses and publicly announces who took part in the criminalisation of society after October 5th, through the sugar affair and the theft that was with the sugar affair. I hope that they will announce this by the start of the budget debate, because when the budget is debated, we will announce what we have on the sugar affair, and then we will see when Serbia is bankrupt and there has been fraud over the sugar affair. In the future, I will use my right to belong to me, as a People's MP, even from the back row or from the front row. From any order, I will always respond to your demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21370	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Mrs. Plassic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21371	Thank you. I'll use my right to replicate, since I've been mentioned several times. I really don't think it's time to go back into the debate about when Serbia went bankrupt, when it was criminalized, when it had how many foreign reserves, how much savings in banks, how much stability of dinars, how much inflation, etc. So I wouldn't go back to that very old story. We were recently five years old since October 5th, and it was an opportunity for all of us to remember that. Perhaps it should be remembered because, unfortunately, citizens quickly forget what happened. I will answer only the part relating to the appointed president of my party. I remind you that Serbia has been given the opportunity to export sugar with this particular government. So we definitely don't accept, as a party, any responsibility for any sugar affair, because the resolution of the sugar affair happened with this government. All the people invited to decide on this, within the EU, have made it clear that Prof. Labus is one of those who has contributed significantly to resolving this issue and the possibility of Serbia re-exporting sugar to Europe. So it's just for the sake of truth one reminder. I think it's something no one can argue with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21372	Thank you. (Zoran Angelkovic, from the scene: I am looking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21373	I was misread. As I recall, and I think citizens remember very well, sanctions on the export of sugar were introduced by the EU when Mr. Labus was the vice-president of the federal government. I guess it's so clear and safe, and it doesn't take any citizen, let alone an MP to explain or remind him. It is true that during the term of office of this government those sanctions were lifted. But it's not true that we know what happened to the sugar affair. We have been punished by the EU for these malfeasances, masculine and sugar thefts, and we have not come up with data on who was stealing sugar and who was stealing the EU. I don't regret them stealing, just to see who helped them. We want to know who helped them steal from the EU and that two years of peasants are damaged, that they cannot sell sugar at an adequate price. Therefore, Serbian citizens, and before that, MPs, have the obligation and the right to seek, and the government, government and state institutions tell Serbian citizens exactly how we have come to have two years of sanctions for sugar. Who's responsible for this, who made millions and who caused the peasants to be damaged by millions, because they couldn't sell sugar tail and increase the price when the sugar was exported? I think we understand each other completely. It's the facts, unfortunately, whether you like it or not, it's not my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21374	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21375	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I proposed that Article 16 be added to Article 3 and 4. In paragraph 3, the decision on the adoption of quantitative restrictions shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by the initiative of interested authorities and organisations, and in paragraph 4 – to publish the decision on the adoption of a quantitative restriction in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I think that the government must be the decision-makers of certain types of goods, associations of producers, the Chamber and all others who feel threatened and are asking for a solution to be made through a restriction. Of course, information requires it to appear in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I know he's in art. 55, 56 and 57 stressed that the ministries and governments are laying down certain rules, but I do not think it is too high to stress in this article the need for the government of the Republic of Serbia to make such a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21376	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21377	I thank you for this amendment, however, the concept of the law is that the initiative is submitted to the government, and then it brings the initiative before the government. In order not to be burdened by various initiatives of interested persons, an interested person can be anyone. That's why, as a thunderbolt, in order to keep the government out of excessive initiatives, we have to reject it. As for the publication in the Official Messenger, it seems to me that Article 4 paragraph 6 is exactly what it is saying and that the quantitative limit will also be published in the Official Messenger, which is a condition for their fullness, which is why we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21378	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21379	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. The proposal for a law on foreign trade, where after Article 1 we consider it necessary to add a new position 2 which should specify some deadlines. It reads: "The deadline for the application for the allocation of quotas cannot be shorter than 15 days or longer than 30 days from the date of publication of the public invitation for the allocation of quotas". Therefore, if this amendment were to be accepted, the existing section 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 would become section 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. I think it's good to make a point. I spoke several times before, in front of the SRS, about other laws, about some precision, for the simple reason that we think we should give the ministries and those who decide to give as little space as possible, so that there could be no malversions. This amendment is about that. Why do I say that? The largest source of abuse, corruption and bribery in foreign trade was in the area of quota distribution, contingents and permits. Let's just remember that sugar, remember the wheat and a series of other examples, just about those abuses. Despite the fact that Article 3(1) states that external trade is free and free, Article 4 introduces restrictions. And that is fine, if, as said in point 4) they must not aim to or result in a distortion of competition between participants in external trade. I think this amendment should be accepted, given that Article 17, where quota allocation is also referred to, in Section 6, says that the government can prescribe closer conditions for quota allocation, and not say which conditions and why. I think it would be good to make that clear, because nothing interferes with the concept of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21380	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Milan Škrbić, on behalf of the SRS, is certainly good, especially in view of how it worked when the quotas were allocated, contingents, call it whatever you want. So, by precision of that time limit, from the moment of the public call, the Ministry is making a call for submission of requests, precises the time limit it takes to submit the requests and collect the necessary documentation. In practice, unless this is defined, there may be various abuses, so I don't want to question the minister, but it's nobody's till dawn. That means that this public call can last one day, one hour, 11 to 12, and it's being published in the Official Messenger. Whoever gets it through the mail in time, or knows about this, will be able to apply and receive a quota. Legal regulations and norms are respected. So, with this amendment, it's actually just required to set deadlines. It can't be shorter than 15 days or longer than 30. I don't think it's controversial, especially that he doesn't generally enter into the essence of the law, but in any case, it prevents possible abuses, especially the import lobby that's maltene in all structures and all levels of government, so this proposed amendment, by accepting one of these amendments, at least that possibility of abuse would be reduced. It cannot be removed, there is great money in play, but at least to equate market participants with the acceptance of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21382	Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21383	Thank you for the amendment. What we all need to understand now is that these quotas are going to be much less than they were before. The goal is to apply them only in extreme situations. This will rarely happen; quotas for imports and quotas for exports. Very rarely will happen, as this represents an important deviation from the principle of free foreign trade. The very fact, however, significantly reduces the likelihood of corruption. The quantity will be incomparably less than what will be under the quota regime. I completely agree that it is absolutely unacceptable that when you announce the quota the next day, the deadline starts to run and that the deadline lasts for seven days, because then those who had the information will have prepared the papers and the first day will file for the quota, and these others will not be able to prepare. The time limit must be set for the preparation of the quota submission documentation. This deadline for the preparation of the documentation, as well as the deadline for closing the contest, will be governed by the sublaw – Regulation. It can easily be these 15 or 30 days that you listed in the amendment. However, we have another type of quota, and these are the quotas that are allocated not at a certain time interval, but in principle: whoever submits the first quota application, it has a priority. First in time, stronger right. That principle. That's another type of quota. Both are standard in the World Trade Organization. We can't set the deadline, but when the quota is exhausted. It could be in five days, in 30 days, it could be in three months. That's why we thought it was more flexible to take on these same principles that you suggested, which is that you don't use what's called inside retreading, that the information you got from the inside, you have as an advantage, in relation to others who didn't have that information. To introduce these same deadlines, but in sublegal acts that will be more detailed, in accordance with the principles of the World Trade Organisation. That's why we find it inappropriate to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21384	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21385	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given the fact that a lot of amendments have been submitted to this law, I find its foundation rather bad. This is one of the reasons why so many amendments are submitted to this bill. The fact is that market disturbances need to be protected in some way, which is what the state intervenes by introducing quotas. However, when we compare the law to real market developments, we still notice something that is really in our society. Is it necessary to protect the domestic market at all, because in fact, there is no domestic market, we have foreign mega-markets, we have a beer industry that is all in other people's hands. In fact, we don't make anything. In a way, we have nothing to protect. In addition, Article 14 also states that both domestic and foreign persons, when importing or exporting, are in an equal position. This means that the entry of goods, which has been solved through customs, is not adequately solved and we have nothing to protect on our market. Today, we are in a situation where, besides so rich in Serbia, besides Vojvodina, we are importing carrots as an agriculturally developed province, next to the Danube. That's a fact. The amendment that I made on behalf of the SRS refers precisely to the quotas, in the way in which to do so. I propose that Article 17(2), which states that the quotas are allocated according to the order of admissions, is added – first to persons who have not previously been allocated quotas. This would prevent the government from setting a monopoly when importing and fixing quotas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21386	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21387	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think the minister can accept this amendment automatically, because many of the text of the law will improve and clarify some of the dilemmas. National MP Nikola Lalic asked that the text "quota" is added in attitude 2 – "first to persons who have not previously been allocated quotas", and then that position 2 would read as follows: "The quotas are allocated according to the order of admission requests for the allocation of quotas, first to persons who have not previously been allocated quotas" etc. Which is why the SRS is looking for this. First, in these five years, a lot has happened. Those who trusted you completely don't believe you anymore. What's this about? A friend of a friend or his friend comes in, endures, receives a quota, the one that's the fourteenth in line will wait until all possibilities are exhausted, and this one, for the second, third and fifth time, will receive a quota and be exported. Therefore, in that order, those who have all the conditions for export, and some other, third or fourth on the list, to get them, and only when the complete list is exhausted, can this first come back again. Ladies and gentlemen, with this we would root out the possibility that in the allocation of quotas they are assigned by certain criteria, which are not exactly in the spirit of business morality. In doing so, I mean primarily work by effect, which I do to you, you do to me. Why am I saying this? I have a letter from the People's Movement against Corruption in front of me, and you just talked about that "MK Komertz" and the export of sugar, so to avoid staying a dilemma, maybe one of you forgot something, to read those writers, I just have so much time. I will read only this data, on 12 May 2004 UBPOK's findings on checks in "MK Komerac". ''According to the reported documentation, the company mentioned in 2001 has re-converted imported sugar from Union Intertrade Tortola, from the British Virgin Islands.' I didn't know so much sugar was produced on the British Virgin Islands. I know that both Hamovic and Lazarevic's companies are there, and Dinkic is holding our $4.5 billion there, etc., but I didn't know that sugar was produced. And the electricity is produced there. When you read something like this, things become clear to you. "From this company's 'MK Komerc'" imported 1,051 tonnes of sugar in November 2001. The purchase price of import sugar was 550 tonnes per tonne, and increased for costs was 29 dinars per kilogram, according to the calculation established by the company 'MK Komerc'. Sugar was placed under customs supervision, in a customs warehouse located in the 'MK Komerc' warehouse. The company "MK Komerc" placed under customs supervision, for export purposes, sugar of import origin that could not be exported to EU countries, using preferences. These benefits apply only to sugar of domestic origin, given that at that time the current world sugar price was half the price of the exporting producers from the SRJ. On exports of sugar to EU countries, the world price was 550 marks and 1,100 marks were exported. MK Komerc exported imported sugar to Italy and Greece at a price of 1,100 marks per tonne. So MK Komerc, by exporting sugar, which previously imported, achieved a property benefit of 5,764,000 dinars. "That's what's been discovered. As far as it's undiscovered, UBPOK couldn't get the data, that's a different story. Now I wonder why the vice president of the then federal government, Miroljub Labus, gave permission for MK Komertz to do this, and he knew very well what was going on. The brothers aren't. Only if they didn't agree on something else or if Labus didn't hurt his leg at the time, like he did when "Prince Milos" was at stake, like he did when "Erickson" was at stake. Whenever something happens, Labusa hurts his leg.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21388	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21389	I'm used to all sorts of speculations from individual MPs, and I'm not surprised by that for a long time. I was surprised at the first days I came to this congregation. The gentleman spoke, at the time it was fun for me, about a Mr. Olaf who was in Serbia. This illustrates the complete lack of understanding of the situation and in the confusing mass of misunderstanding it is clear that man draws the wrong conclusions from all this. Indeed, I will not continue to allow the names of the president and vice president of my party to be brought into contact with the mentioned party. I'm the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Since the president of the party is mentioned, I am using my right. I will absolutely not continue to allow, as well as the parliamentary group, for Mr Labus and Mr Dinkic to be mentioned in connection with any names of the businesspeople concerned in Serbia. G17 plus has absolutely nothing to do with the names mentioned, and at least the gentleman whose company is mentioned in the previous presentation. So it is quite clear that this gentleman's name is bound to another party that was then in power and I join all the requirements to fully examine the business of all the companies that were created a little earlier and at some other time. As a citizen, I am really interested in where these people come from so much wealth and where they have so much opportunity to influence any authority in Serbia. So this government certainly has nothing to do with them, this government insists that all these relationships be examined in detail, when they have developed their power, who has made it possible for them, why this has happened, how the funds, whose resources and whose permits have been taken out of the country and how all this has happened in this country at all. The G17 plus invites all the competent authorities to examine the origins of these gentlemen's property and everything they've done, and what's related to business in our country and beyond. We absolutely reject any connection with those persons and citizens because, despite your needs to impose that G17 plus with them has any connection, it is clear that the company's name binds to another party in our political environment. So with G17 plus absolutely not. G17 Plus is in this government because it wants to be done by all rules, we support these rules and thanks to this government's strength, the sugar export preferences have been returned to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21390	Right on line, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I am deeply touched by the words of the character guardians and the work of Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic. About this sugar affair, let's be clear that we didn't attack G17 plus. I just realized that Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus signed export licences, and speaking of the gentlemen mentioned, I'm not talking about G17 plus again, but I'm talking about Dinkic and Labus, to read something else. I apologize to the Minister for having to wait around this law for a while. ''The National Savings Centre was founded on 25 December 2001 after an unprecedented campaign by two irresponsible state officials, then the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia – Mladjan Dinkic, with the unselfish help of the then vice president of the Federal Government – Miroljub Labus, who was in charge of economic relations. The national savings bank was founded by 13 legal entities and at that time in the majority social property and capital structure, the situation was this: the largest shareholder is the Yugoslav Bank for International Co-operation, JUBMES Bank, with 38% shares, then three founders gained 9.62% – Beopetrol, JU GARANT Bank and Toza Markovic. Three founders gained 4.81% and these are "Apatian brewery", "C market" and "DDOR-Novi Sad". Two founders of 3.80% – "The Bather of Insurance" and "Synthelon". There are still tiny founders with 2%, etc. The total value of the actions broadcast in that first round was 364 million dinars. In May 2002, the National Savings Bank broadcasts a second stock show worth 180 million dinars. As buyers, 80% of these actions appear companies: "Squadra" and "Pima", "Principal Export-Import" and "Diners Club". Mladjan Dinkic was running around the world in those days, he was in Cyprus, in Moscow, and there he met the owner of the 'Euroaxis Bank' – Milos Mirkovic. The bank illegally held reserves of the National Bank of Yugoslavia in its accounts. People's MPs remember that very well. Milos Mirkovic was in a duet with Vuk Hamovic, who had his eye on the "National Savings Bank" and began to knit the spider web. One of the founders of Pima d.d.o. Jelena Lazarevic and Zoran Stankovic, with a share of 5% ownership, while the other 90% of the ownership belonged to the company "Pluto International ltd.", from the island of Vincent and Grenadine, and the owners of this company are Vladan, Olivera and Vojin Lazarevic, the godfather of Vuk Hamovic. From JUBMES Bank, the state of Serbia purchases 21 actions before the end of 2002 and thus becomes the owner of 13.83%. This purchase of shares from Jubmes Bank explains and justifies the need for the state to control the "National Savings Bank". This has nothing to do with G17. I'm only talking about Mladjan Dinkic. The first reason for the "JUBMES" participation to be 9.81%, while Vuk Hamovic's company, meanwhile, is taking bigger amounts of credit than National Savings and investing in the purchase of shares of the same bank. I expect to be called back, so I'll pick up where I left off.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21392	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? This was a replica, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21393	I am really very uncomfortable with the ministry gentlemen who are here to talk about this law – we are opening these political differences. So, what does the National Savings Centre have to do now, and are the citizens of Serbia really obliged to listen to this? With great pleasure, I will speak of the National Savings. We've got another hour. Just read it. And I expect materials, so we'll read together. Dear Sir, Mladjan Dinkic himself, G17 plus and we have already talked many times about why and how the National Savings Centre was founded and a thousand times the repeated lie did not become true. That's what someone misinformed you. You can repeat it countless times, it won't become true. The national savings bank is open to the citizens to pay off their old foreign savings. Ask me what kind of old foreign savings it is. The one that disappeared while you were in power. You supported that power in one period, in another period you participated directly in it, that was during the war when people died in Serbia. This foreign savings that went missing at that time, which you simply took away from the citizens of Serbia, was returned, and you can say whatever you want, are facts and that's what the citizens of Serbia look at and know. So the National Savings Bank was founded to restore old savings to Serbian citizens and it did. Whether you like it or not, she did it. She was then part of the state's majority ownership. As you know, the third recapitalisation, lost by the National Savings Bank, was carried out after Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's shift in this assembly on July 22, 2003. Please consider the facts, which are facts. There are many more that are related to the National Savings Bank and I will present to you with great pleasure. I'd like to invite you to stay out of this whole debate right now. So I'm ready to answer as long as you're ready to read the truth. But in the interest of Serbian citizens, who expect to hear the comments of this law, I would ask you to return to the debate on the law. Otherwise, we'll talk about the National Savings Bank whenever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21394	Thank you. The word is Mr. Markovic, I don't know on what basis, but since I allowed Mrs. Plassic, I will allow you to explain what was misread. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21395	Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, where we left off. I'll read the last sentence, so you can connect. The real reason was for JUBMES to fall to 9.80% of shares, while the related companies of Vuk Hamovic to become owners of 37% of shares. Vuk Hamovic's company, meanwhile, was taking larger amounts of credit from the National Savings Bank and investing them in the purchase of shares of the same bank – the National Savings Bank. So the National Savings Bank credited Vuk Hamovic to buy it. No such case has been recorded in the history of world banking. In early 2003, a third group of actions purchased by the small collective companies, otherwise owned by Vuk Hamovic from Moscow and the company "Elin", from Vienna, is being broadcast. Both companies have paid off shares via Euroaxis Bank, it is that bank where Mladjan Dinkic held state foreign exchange reserves. So, both companies have paid off shares via Euroaxis Bank from Moscow, owned by Milos Mirkovic. So there's a third person showing up. All the time we wrongly attacked Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, and here comes Milos Mirkovic. The question is, who's gonna have all the faces coming up for the rest of these papers? The owners of the company "Elin" from Vienna are the brothers Alexei and Igor Gohalov, otherwise the business partners of Milos Mirkovic, and the owners of the small collective company are Milan Škorić, with 9% shares, otherwise he is the brother of Vuk's wife Desa Hamovic. The owner of 91% of shares is Anglo-European Marketing, from the Virgin Islands, owned by Vuk Hamovic. With a planned transaction, Serbia's participation fell to 10.5% of shares and Jubmes to 7.18%. During that time, two new owners of the company "Elin" and "Little collective" become the largest individual owners of shares in the National Savings Bank with 26.80% shares. All these transactions took place far from the eyes of the public. Dinkic trusted the National Savings Bank to pay off the old foreign currency savings. We've reached the old foreign exchange savings, too, to clarify it. He didn't have "trust" in domestic banks. He thought the National Savings Bank would do it faster and better. In fact, this is how Dinkic, without a tender, assigned a 4.5 billion-euro job to the National Savings Bank. In order for the National Savings Bank to succeed in doing business, it was necessary to make money on sight, which were at 18 business banks and were transferred to the National Savings Bank. It was the deposits of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Institute for the Making of Coins and Coins and the National Bank of Yugoslavia – the Kragujevac branch. The amount of funds, according to the annual report, that accounts for about 800 million dinars amounted to 60% of the bank's dinar deposits. All of this was not enough, but at the end of 2002 the National Savings Bank frees up 60 exposures at exclusive locations, with 271 counters and 7,200 square meters of business space, with complete equipment. (President: Time.) Just one more sentence, and I'll finish my third date. And this time Dinkic's excuse was – this move is that employees of the ZOP, who are shutting down, do not stay on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21396	Thank you. The word is Mrs Plassic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21397	Article 101. It is an insult to the dignity of the congregation, since it is false. It's really hard for me to answer to someone who reads from a manual something someone wrote to him. I'm really not prone to this kind of debate. I like to have a discussion when a man makes some personal arguments and knows matter. When someone takes and reads a report to you, I don't know exactly whose, in five minutes, he lists five thousand false information, misinformation, complete untruth, then it's hard for a man to answer all that, or he's getting into a completely pointless game. So, in a game like this, I don't want to go any further, and I don't want to talk about it that way. I'm just going to remind you that Euroaxis Bank is one of the banks that were founded at the time, that's before 2000, and that then the reserves held in it were significantly higher than they were later. So, since 2000, so far the state foreign exchange reserves held in that bank have been constantly reduced, and their level has been constantly reduced. It just wasn't possible at one point, and that's what all financial experts have confirmed, to withdraw all that money. In my opinion, and I'd rather do that, I'm not some financial expert, these banks that you've formed in the '90s, I wouldn't really have much sentimentality to it. But it was simply impossible, because many Serbian companies were doing business that way, and that was, they say, a way to bypass sanctions at the time and to have Serbian businesses do business through the bank. It's your creation, gentlemen. Don't mention Euroaxis Bank as something that has something to do with Mladjan Dinkic, because it's simply not true. So, around the National Savings Bank, you've brought forth countless lies, and as far as business space and everything else is concerned. So she's one of the banks that won the competition to pay back the old foreign currency savings. Also, she's one of the banks that got, based on that, the PDO's business space. But the National Savings Bank only received 8.5% of the total business space, compared to the other 13 banks, which also received the business space after the competition because they took over people employed by the then PDO. So there's a thousand other things I can answer, but I really don't want to go further with some text. I can only argue with a man who has arguments and who knows what he's trying to say. I thank and interrupt, therefore, the controversy, on behalf of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21398	Mr. Markovic, I assume you want a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21399	Since the lady spoke in the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to a replica. To finish up, I'm not going to pollute any more, just to use these three minutes to read some data, some information, to remind - true data, because it's the findings of the People's Anti-Corruption Movement. The report says: "and thus Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic become owners of 7,200 square metres of business space". During the recapitalisation of the National Savings Bank, Vuk Hamovic became the largest individual owner. Then, from the Vienna firm Koprom, Hamovic's related companies received a total of $1.2m and 1.2m euros in the name of buying some agricultural products. On the same day Hamovic's companies sell those assets to the National Savings Bank, which again sells the assets to Atlas Bank and the Sosite General Bank. These two banks are returning funds to the National Savings Bank on the same day in favour of Hamovic's companies. The National Savings Bank returns funds to the account of Euroaxis, Milos Mirkovica. And the Coprom company has an account at Euroaxis Bank. So Hamovic became the largest individual owner of the stock, while the purchase of agricultural products was never there, but the basic motive was to buy shares of the National Savings Bank. The state owns 36.7% of shares, and Mladjan Dinkic is the central culprit that the National Savings Bank became the majority property of private companies from exotic islands. Greece's EFG Bank has now become the majority owner. Recently, the National Savings Bank was sold with 52 per cent shares. The People's Anti-Corruption Movement believes there is room for a special prosecutor for organised crime to urgently prosecute those responsible for the abuse of the establishment and privatisation of the National Savings Bank. They must urgently blame the transge-frange affairs with state money, huge state money, to be brought into UBPOK first, and then – they know their place.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21400	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 17? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21401	You won't mind if, in a comment of this amendment to Article 17(2), I also reach these amendments, because there are two or three other amendments concerning Article 17, there are only different views, but that is one overall. Before I go on that, I'd like to ask these from the G17 Group of MPs plus to determine a representative to go to Zemun, to the SRS rooms, we have books exposed in the hallway, so buy a book, "What took the left hand if he didn't know the right hand." There is a stenogram of the Survey Committee on Old Foreign Savings from the Federal Assembly, I think it was May 1994, and there is an answer to all the questions about what happened with the old foreign savings and who was responsible for the old foreign savings. When you read the book, come out here and tell me if there's an SRS. We can't tolerate your ignorance for a while. It's all well written there. And your friend Dusan Vlatkovic was sweating there when he explained what he was doing and how he was doing. But let's get back to Article 17. This is Chapter 2 — Quantities of the quota allocation. There's no big principle difference between odds and contigents. Basically, it comes down to the same thing. I must say that what you have stated in Section 6, where you say, "The government can prescribe closer conditions for the allocation of quotas", in Article 17 and in all other members who are in some way concerned, you must clearly express in the most objective way possible criteria and criteria for the distribution of these quotas. That's what I'm telling you on the basis of experience, because I've had specific problems since I did this job in 1998. The end of that year ended with 1.4 billion marks, and later some of the JULs took it and only made 50 million in 1999, and they accused us of breaking the balances. It's in the archives, you'll see. It's very easy to do a good job on this, if there are objective criteria. Remember, ministers, there's something here, but objectivity is missing. I can tell you that on the basis of some of my personal experience. In particular, Lalic's amendment refers to Article 2 where it is proposed to add after the word "quota" a text that reads "first to persons who have not previously been allocated quota" etc. And let me tell you right now, in practice this could be a failure. A man picks up and gets a quota, and he's never done that job. He secures the quota and sells it to simplify. But it can happen that whoever has received the quota more often also achieves the monopoly. Minister, I've had problems with the monopoly, I've been on the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, I've been playing some sheriff as a minister, I've been stalking everyone, and instead of chasing those 500 people I've put on criminal charges, your Democrats came and they chased me, but I don't want that part, it's in some procedure so we don't get involved in the work of some other organs. So, objective criteria. Next, on the basis of these objective criteria, based on something that takes into account the season criteria, because not all jobs are done throughout the year, some are seasonal, something is on the quota regime so it's related to it, etc. I agree with the idea of making ads, of applying interested, but at the beginning of today's agenda, I told you that it would be a big problem that this law must be passed in a package of foreign exchange laws. Later you prescribed some deadlines for someone to use the quota, a year and so on. We have the next amendment where we ask it to be six months. You probably realized you needed to accept it. If you, as the minister who's authorized to do this, have no insight into the pay traffic involved in this job, then don't do it. You can show me the point and the attitude and tell me there is, but there is no minister, remember. Anyone applying for a quota has to prove that he's capable of doing the job, so he doesn't wear out any unnecessary rights and he has to prove he's got that stuff, if it's export business. They need security, guarantees, all the way to the point must exist. If you think that position 6 of this article allows you to provide you with a sublegal act, or to prescribe documentation and evidence that is proven, you are mistaken, Minister. This is about the quota. Everything has to be in the law. If that is not in the law, then you and the Government take great responsibility, where everyone will be able to challenge you for purposely setting up a criterion and a standard that corresponds to Djoki, and with this goods – someone else or third. That's why I said at the beginning, this changed at the end of 2000. It came with those quotas, because it was thought that previously the contingents were bad. They were annual, three months old, everything and everything that was going on, so Borisa had a "fioku" for the Sports Society "Partizan", you know, that's what everyone who did the foreign trade knows about the job. It's one of the forms of foreign trade business, where the amount and the goods that have that regime are determined. In order for that to be objective, and as you like to say, transparently, all these conditions, criteria and criteria must be put into law. Just leave some technical questions for the sublegal act. I don't know if you understand. Why am I telling you this? I'm absolutely aware of the fact that you can't prescribe everything in detail, because there are different goods that are traded. One needs a guarantee, a quality test, evidence of quality, proof of origin, etc. You probably know, for all the jobs going towards Russia, good documentation on the origin of the goods is required. They no longer want the Russians to buy goods from Serbia, and it is originating in Slovenia or Croatia. The goods are coming back. He's standing at customs in Russia. They will not accept such goods because they do not accept that an agreement between the Russian Federation and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on a special regime is being misused. So all the amendments that we have submitted, as far as Article 17 is concerned, are intended to create as objective criteria as possible and as part of the criteria, criteria. So, on the basis of the criteria, there's a priority. One criterion, another criterion, like every score – the score for the apartment, for the salary, the score for this, for that. Whoever answers, knows what they meet in advance, what conditions they meet, how many points they get, and whether in an objective way they're going to come to a priority, because all these contingents are limited. There's hundreds of them somewhere, thousands of tons of stuff. You've accepted the so-called principle. the stock quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21402	Thank you. The word has Minister Parivodic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21403	Mr Krasic is talking about objective criteria, which should be incorporated into the law for precision, transparency and protection against potential pressures, etc. I don't see that in your amendments at all. It's not there. If you could write, you would. You couldn't write it, not because you don't know how to write it, but because it's impossible to write it. So that provision would be the length of the whole law, because we would have to predict all possible variations, the possibility of giving quotas. It's impossible to write such a provision. We have adhered to the criteria adopted in the EU and the World Trade Organisation. We'll also stick to the same criteria in sublegal acts, exactly the same. If these countries, with a much stronger legal tradition, allow themselves that degree of legal uncertainty, that legal uncertainty will also apply to us. I believe that these are countries that have a much greater degree of legal certainty than our country, their experience can only benefit us and it is better to apply those solutions than to invent our own, or try to formulate provisions that are actually impossible to formulate. I repeat, if you could formulate them, you would have listed them in the amendments, and you didn't. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21404	Mr. Krasic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21405	Now you've really disappointed me. I've seen you don't understand these things at all. Minister, here's the thing. Now I'm going to read you what you wrote in Section 2: "The quotas are allocated according to the order of admission of the quota allocation applications, within a period which cannot be longer than 15 days from the date on which the applicant submitted the prescribed documentation." Right? What are we looking for to change? In point 2 after the word "quota", the wording is added: "first to persons who have not previously been allocated quotas". I just told you that maybe what we wrote is based on some justice and justice and that it's in practice with negative results. But that's why I'm telling you that what you wrote means that in front of the Ministry, there's going to be one, who's going to apply for his clientele, and he's always going to have a chronological date before anyone else. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: We will have a small quota. Don't change the subject. You say, "We'll have a little quota." You just criticized us that we don't have objective criteria. Why are you changing the subject now? If we talk about frogs, let's talk about frogs. I'm telling you: objective criteria; you say, "we're going to have very few goods on quota regimes." You'll have some goods on the quota regime when there are and there are no objective criteria. I'm talking about objective criteria. I didn't tell you that these objective criteria should go into small intestines and be in the amount of 80 members. No, but I told you, give something objective as a principle, as a principle, and develop the criteria within it by sublaw. You didn't get me at all. You said, in Section 6: "The government can prescribe closer conditions for quota allocation." Do you distinguish what is the condition, what is the way, the criteria, the criteria? These are different terms, Minister. Conditions are prescribed by law. Read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A principle based on our Constitution, a way to achieve certain rights and freedoms, can be regulated by law. I like your idea of a sublegal act being passed by the government, not the Ministry, but not by conditions, but only by those criteria within the criteria. In Article 17, write objective criteria, when a man reads the law, to say: yes, it is required, I can fulfill it. (Milan Parivodić, from the site: What are the criteria other than those that you listed as criteria? Mr. Minister, we are the opposition. Don't ask the opposition to write you laws. That wouldn't make sense. We wrote 10 laws and gave it here, you say, they can't come to the agenda. Now you're the only minister who says, well, write, and we'll see what it is. Don't say that. We've been trying to fix it with amendments. You've already accepted one, as you just said, from one year to six months. It means we're not that long as we don't know this matter. We know very well this matter. I wanted to help you, to tell you, because of you, because of the government, because of customs, because of those who will be in line. People used to finish their jobs, have agencies that come in, run their own people through the counter, get the seal, and the first one finishes the job. We haven't come to arms yet. We didn't come to the license regime. Each regime of the external trade project has some specific features, so it's clear why something is on the regime free, why it's something of a quota and why it's a permit. Each of these forms individually has its own premise, has its own definition of why it is there. You did not put it to be free, but you said about some quantities, some goods – they will go to quotas. Why? There's a state interest in not jeopardizing balances. Where is the authorisation regime? Where are the dangerous things, the weapons, etc. So there are some principles. We just wanted to draw your attention within the quota, give you as objective criteria as possible, whether there will be five products, 10, 20, or 200 in the quota regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21406	He has the word Minister Parivodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21407	So, precisely the objective criteria that we consider to be the most appropriate in terms of allocation, that is, the conditions under which quotas will be allocated, are that it is an economically justified quantity of goods covered by the quota, that it is in the light of the degree of exploitation of previously allocated quotas and the possibility of assigning quotas to persons who have not previously been allocated. That's exactly the criterion that you, but much more closely, have stated, that you correctly estimated could lead to an unfair outcome. So we've cited these objective criteria and we think they're satisfactory and we stay with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21408	The government has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, paragraph 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic and MP Srdjo Komazec. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? I have information that the government accepts the amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21409	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 17, which we have been discussing for an hour, has been predicting the distribution of quotas, as the member himself says - is saying what can be said, what is binding, Mr Minister. In point 1, point 3) of the first paragraph, the possibility of assigning quotas to persons who have not previously been allocated quotas, so it can, but it doesn't have to, you left it to be resolved by some sublegal act, which I don't think is right. We need to regulate the law. We later submitted some amendments to this and there will be stories about it. However, what I disagree with you, Minister, is that due to a small number of quotas, it will be a minor possibility of abuse. On the contrary, quotas will, as you say, be used only in situations where there are serious market disturbances. Due to a small number of quotas – serious market disturbances? I disagree with you that the possibility of abuse is less, it is then the largest, because a small number of faces will get quotas at the moment when the economy, the market, is in some sensitive position. Then the possibility of making extra profit is the highest. There's no one else to stop him from doing that. That argument of yours for not accepting that amendment to a member, it seems to me that it was 12, some deadlines for filing requests and necessary documentation. It's really illogical, I agree with you that the government can handle it in some sublaw, whether it's a regulation, whether it's going to be a rule or not, I don't want to go into it, but I think it's the best thing for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to do, by setting deadlines by law. To change these deadlines, it is necessary to write an amendment and an addition to a certain law, to be a public debate in the Serbian Parliament in order to change some of the provisions of the law. The government's session, in principle, is not under some great public interest. The Regulation may be amended overnight, without public knowledge of the consequences of this Regulation. The laws are not written for the mandate of a government. I suppose your goal is to implement your law for a long time and when you are not a minister, and it will be implemented if it is better, depending on the situation, circumstances, etc., good and applicable. These are the circumstances you had to take care of. If you leave the government to change a regulation, I will not enter personally whether you are going to propose to a government to do so, but it is possible for someone in the government to abuse the right of the regulation. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, in Article 17 after Article 5, asked for the addition of a new position 6 which reads: "If a person does not use the quota in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 3, and the circumstances set out in Article 5 take place, that person cannot receive new quotas within the next three years of the day of the out-of-force quota." Just a violation of the quota regime, to read in order to make attitude 3 and attitude 5 clearer. - "The decision on the allocation of the quota contains the conditions under which the quota is allocated, as well as the period within which the quota can be used, which cannot be longer than six months and the way in which the Ministry of Use of the quota is informed." Paragraph 5 states: "If the person does not use the quota in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 3, the Ministry may: So, because of this earlier discussion, we have found that there is a possibility of abuse. Criminal law and any other law on quotas, which sanction as a criminal offence and no one will be held accountable, has even no criminal provisions on non-compliance with the conditions themselves. Only, when it comes to the financial moment, the penalties are more than symbolic, how much importers themselves can earn by misusing one quota. So there is no more serious measure of repression and punishment for not obeying the provisions of this law. This new view provides that whoever violates the law on foreign trade still suffers certain consequences, which is that he does not have the right to apply for a new quota in the next three years. All depends, it is not a real crime, it depends on the conditions of the market, etc., but in principle – what will end Morava, if he does not know how to swim, if it is a market failure, so our people say, and if it is an abuse, he will still suffer certain legal consequences that he cannot participate in new public invitations to grant quotas. I believe that this amendment does not violate the spirit of this law, it only improves it in a certain way, in order to be as applicable as possible and to finally get in the way of the legal regulations of an extremely strong financial lobby.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21410	Anyone else want a word from the MPs? No, I don't. ) Minister Parivodić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21411	There are two approaches to the legal arrangement. One is that you have a strict norm that leads to a binary situation of zero or one. And you have another legal technique, which is such that it allows for more nuances in decision-making. Therefore, this idea of sanctioning one who does not use the quota is quite in place and it is contained in point 3 of point 1), where it is said that the conditions will take particular account of the circumstances to first assign quotas to persons who have not previously been assigned, under two – the degree of exploitation of previously allocated quotas. I believe that these solutions, as well as the second amendment, which also provides for a three-year sentence unless a permit is used, are rigid solutions and that these provisions better reflect the need for a nuanced decision, which does not aim to favour anyone, but rather, to allow fair allocation of quotas to be achieved as nicely as possible. These are the criteria set out in the World Trade Organisation's contract and these criteria are also applied in the European Union. When you take advantage of an EU legal solution, you always have the advantage of being able to benefit and gain insight into their practice, into positive solutions and in the mistakes that a particular solution has made, and also how to get out of these mistakes. In this respect, the advantage of using solutions that have been checked by such strong legal systems as European Union law is an advantage. That's why we feel we should refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21412	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21413	Mr. Minister, no one has talked about what if the quota isn't used on the amount of goods it's intended. The importer or exporter, however, is losing profits. He's hardly gonna allow himself that luxury of not importing the amount of goods he got the quota for. This is about what if the quantities of goods covered by the quota are transferred. For example, we are witnessing that a sugar quota has been broken out of Serbia into the countries of the European Union. They've determined the amount we can export, they said it's domestic sugar, and there's no problem. Society gathered, imported sugar into Serbia, repacked, labeled it domestically, exported to EU countries. What were they doing back then? We've been banned, we've been suspended. It is perfectly normal for one who imports more into the country than he received from the quota to bear some legal consequence, even if symbolic – that he cannot do the job for the next three years. Furthermore, when it comes to exports, you have goods that are seasonal, especially when agricultural products are, for example, in a phase of rest, when the market does not need that goods. So they either buy the stock reserves to unload the market, or the goods are exported out of the country through quotas. Then someone has a chance again, if they move the amount, to make more money. That's what this is about. So there's no point in being sanctioned by one who doesn't respect the odds in general. That's hard. They're market rules, they're rules of economic logic, they won't give up profits unless they're incompetent. It's something else, and I'm sure you can't help him. This is about abuse, someone using the quota, whether to give more goods to imports into Serbia or strategic raw materials more exports from Serbia. Nothing else. That's what this amendment applies to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21414	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government does not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government accepts this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you said you were not making a difference when considering the amendments, or the possibility of accepting them, regardless of which parliamentary groups they come from. You have accepted a few amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, but most have not been accepted. This is one of the laws where we didn't tell the Priors, and we in the SRS know it, and we can say that the law isn't good and it needs to be withdrawn. As far as this law is concerned, we have accepted your argument when opening a principle debate, and what you have given in the explanation we have also accepted, but we have also tried to make this law better and better with 27 amendments than it has been given here. You will agree that, no matter how professionally they had access to this and how much was the team that helped you make this bill, you saw from the explanation of the amendments of the SRS MPs that there was nothing to learn. You'll admit it was like that. We expected, given that we ran an analysis of all the amendments individually, and together, of course, and saw that they were related, as you might notice, mainly to improving certain conditions. We can't be underprivileged and say that this law was brought to create certain conditions or the possibility of abuse, but we wanted our amendments to prevent that too, that we don't have such a situation. I've submitted an amendment to Article 28, and it's about permission. You're different from some of your government colleagues, because you said certain things or some sublegal act would be passed by the Ministry, while some ministers take their right to do so. You have a more objective approach here. Article 28 says, "The competent ministry may put the permit out of force", which states the conditions under which that authorisation can be put out of force; point 1) of Article 1 of this Article says: "if, in accordance with the law, after the authorisation is issued, export, import or transit of goods for which the authorisation has been issued". There's a higher power here. These are objective reasons and no one can bear responsibility because of the unrealization of this permit, because it is a higher force. Point 2) of this attitude says "if a person who has been granted a permit breaks the conditions or deadlines under which the licence is issued". This is where I tabled the amendment, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to be added after Article 1(2) of Article 2, which says: "If the circumstances set out in Article 1(2) of this Article arise, the person to whom the authorisation has been withdrawn cannot be granted new licences within the next three years of the day of placing the permit out of force". A moment ago, I think you tried to tell me why you wouldn't accept this amendment. We just want to cut some deadlines here. If a person knowingly violates the provisions of this law, or fails to exercise the permit granted to him by the Ministry, he shall not have the right to such authorisations for the next three years. In this way, we would have a preventive effect on all those who appear in these import-export transactions, i.e. in external trade, and this would probably lead to a new quality for business operators involved in this business. Then, point 3 of this attitude says: "if the authorisation is broken by the provisions of this law or other regulations". We don't provide for any sanctions here. Who can break the provisions of this law? It can't violate the one who filed the request, but the authority that issues the permits could, that is, be the Ministry. For these reasons, the economic operator who has lodged this authorisation should not bear any responsibility. In the end, Minister, we from the SRS appreciate that you were present all the time during the principle debate on this law. Now, when the amendments are defended, you often go out to explain why you accept or do not accept some of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21416	Mr. Peric, I have information that the minister and the government accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21417	Minister, I must say, in certain provisions, you look a little like a wolf in lamb skin. When you explained this law, you said you wanted to write a law that would be understood by those who run business entities. It's okay. That's what we support. It explains some reasons that do not go along with what you said during the opening discussions and where you got a big round of applause on this side and that argument that goes with this law, do not quite match.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21418	The Government has submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Zlatko Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on foreign trade, to Article 33(2), which reads: "The government can prescribe closer conditions for the application of protection measures, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union". The Foreign Trade Act provided for the freedom of foreign trade in Article 3. Article 4 allows restrictions on external trade, and in Article 5 of the Government's competence for those restrictions. The protection measures of Article 33 are essentially nothing but restrictions on which the Government may remain, if the foreign trade operator is willing to pay certain taxes. Since you did not prescribe these measures by law, but you authorised the Government to determine the conditions for applying the protection measure, you could very simply propose a law with one member, which would read: foreign trade in the Republic of Serbia is governed by the Government. That's why I think Article 2 in Article 33 is too high and needs to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21420	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21421	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in Article 33, are said that the Government can introduce protection measures: anti-dumping duties, compensatory duties, measures to protect against excessive imports, measures to protect balance of payments. The second is said that the government can prescribe closer conditions for applying protection measures, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union. The government is an executive body or part of an executive body that implements certain laws and certain legal regulations, but, as counterpart Radic, who submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS, we could only write this law in one member who would say otherwise – the government of the Republic of Serbia is tasked with prescribing closer conditions for the application of the provisions on foreign trade. This would end the work of the Serbian Parliament. This part still complains – in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union. Why does he insist so much on it? If there are some rules why are they not in EU and World Trade Organisation law? If, for years, every government that has existed here since October 5th, the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, now Vojislav Kostunica, all claim that the Serbian Parliament is the most productive factory that makes the laws that we harmonize with EU legislation. If it wasn't for this law early, then the government would have some sublegal act to regulate some matter. Why do you keep pointing that out? The impression is that it's more of a declarative and promotional character, but I don't see why. The following Articles 34, 38, 39 and 40 include the examination procedure, etc. There is already some legal regulation regarding these measures. So the government can introduce protection measures. The government enforces the law, the Assembly brings. If protection measures exist, which are regulated by law, conditions when the government must react, cannot be said it can, must act in accordance with the law, regardless of whether the law has been written by a MP, a congregation working body or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The law has to be implemented. Especially in this part – the government can prescribe closer. He can, but he doesn't have to. These are all the shortcomings of a more technical nature and then, therefore, attitude 2 becomes excessive. The government has no obligation to enforce the law, so you wrote in Article 33. It might be good to either accept this amendment or withdraw the legal proposal from the procedure. Set it up a little bit better and then return it to the Serbian Parliament again for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-08-0.u21422	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government does not accept this amendment. With this amendment, we will conclude today's work. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
