ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22246	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Ivana Kovacevic, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Lazarevic and Suzana Grubjesic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE 2006. THE year (specificities) was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic to Article 5 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22247	I expected at the beginning of this session that the chairman would inform us why we were working again without a representative of the government. As I recall, we interrupted this point the moment it was found that the government's representative wasn't in the O.R., and we didn't hear any excuse for starting this session. I don't know what the reasons are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22248	We have information that the minister will be here any minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22249	Okay, if he's coming, I'll continue the discussion. This amendment by Mr. Mircic is going through several of the following amendments. When a government official comes, he'll be able to catch a beat. What is regulated by Article 5. Proposal for a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia? It regulates what is prescribed as an obligation under the Budgetary System Act. How do you regulate that? Article 5 has two different parts. The first part speaks of how much guarantees and counter-guarantees will be issued during 2006, and if I can use one word, some structure of that future borrowing. Item 2 contains a finding on the state of the debt of the Republic of Serbia, both foreign currency and dinars. Of course, everything is expressed in dinars. Mr. Mircic has submitted an amendment asking for article 5 to be deleted, to draw attention and get the opportunity to express our political position that the borrowing policy in the Republic of Serbia has become uncontrollable for the past few years, dangerous for economic life. It has become dangerous because of some perspective that we all count on since this government fell and this minister's departure. It is a good opportunity for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to hear about what all the Republic of Serbia would have to give guarantees and counterguarantees in 2006. We should give guarantees and counter-guarantees for the total amount. We have a lot of numbers here, but you need to know that this isn't 1993. Over 43 billion dinars to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development based on four loans of 14 billion, for the Public Undertaking of the Railways of Serbia for the Railway Reconstruction Project. You know, whatever gets touched in the railroad turns out to be an affair. Why would the Republic of Serbia be in charge, transfer obligations to future generations, and the railways and the ministry that closely monitors this activity, for whatever it is they're caught up in, some affair turns out to be. Furthermore, the Roads Directorate, for the construction of some Corridor Dobanovci – Bubanj stream: this is what has been built for some 15 years and four times the bridge is opened, that is that famous bridge where Velimir Ilic said 100 euros each when it is finished; the public company PTT traffic of Serbia for the construction of the main postal centre and cable-distributive centre of 900 million dinars. Just to remind you, a similar "song" has been there before, when Srdjan Blagojevic, a great expert in the Democratic Party, now with Karic. I think that's the person. At the time he was in a dispute with Karic, and now he ran over to him. But he's not the only one. It is obvious that Serbia's Force Movement is a spare party of Boris Tadic. Yes, it was created as a backup the moment William Montgomery ordered Bozidar Djelic, I know that Minister Dinkic will not challenge me because he shares that opinion with me, so, when Bozidar Djelic, by order of William Montgomery, paid off Karic that extra profit. Who did this? A woman led by the Republic Public Revenue Administration, whose husband works at Karic's. Then Bogi Karic, like that Kostic from Paracino, 'I'll return them when I turn them around', and he turned two or three times, and when Dinkic came to collect it, it was all well taken care of. The Democratic Party took the interest, and 11m euros were taken by William Montgomery. It's the one that's walking around Belgrade like a "deaf dog" now, because his wife works at Karic's. That's what you should know. The second group of borrowings that follows us at the European Investment Bank is five credits, and that is: The Road Directorate – one credit for the same location, Corridor 10 Dobanovci-Bubanj stream and for the recovery of bridges of two billion; for the "Gazela" bridge to be resolved, and there will be a question of whether Bogdanovic will approve, because Velimir Ilic has big problems in Belgrade; again, the Public Undertaking of the Railways of Serbia, for the Railways Project II; small municipalities up to the amount of debt allowed under the Public Debt Act, etc.; we have loans to ensure and counter-guarantees to the Government of France, the Government of Spain and the Government of Poland. We come to Item 2 where it is shown, of course, in accordance with the law, the debt situation on 31 August 2005. Maybe it was supposed to be another date, but given the conditions and chronology that the draft budget law is doing, it's probably the day when it was possible to cross some line. The foreign currency debt situation, when translated into dinars, is some number from 1993, I think it's 796 billion and that's: to the International Bank, the International Development Association, the Paris Club, the London Club, the European Union, the Government of Switzerland (it's probably that loan from 2000, which was a condition for us to approach international financial organisations), so the Government of Italy, the old foreign exchange savings, the renaissance loan, based on potential commitments of the Republic of Serbia, where we've already given some funding to payment security, which is for 35 billion dinars, the International Association for Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Government of the Republic of Poland. And we get the final position – the state of debt in the domestic currency, the direct debt of the Republic based on long-term bonds of 19.7 billion, the broadcasting of state records of 6.5 billion and the conversion of loans granted to banks of primary production institutions into the public debt of the Federation. It's a 1996 law when the debt of agriculture turned into a public debt. That's about 552 million dinars. I must say, the government has given its opinion on this amendment. She listed something that is acceptable in those reasons. There must be a state of public debt. A vision must also be given of what will be borrowing in 2006 and what is subject to the obligation to provide guarantees and counter-guarantees. That's the part we're contesting, we're asking to delete, but it's not true what you stated in the last sentence of your opinion. You say "in accordance with those provisions in Article 5. The bill provides for commitments to repay public debt, not new borrowing, as stated in the amendment's explanation." It's probably about the technical slip of whoever wrote you this opinion. It is Article 5 that begins with the finding that guarantees and counterguarantees will be issued in 2006. We have so far had the practice that since the Assembly of the State Community, as it is now going, has ratified some borrowing agreement, and you know for yourself that for the past three years since this subjectivity of the state community has been problematic, then a guarantee and counterguarantee is sought from one who can nominally guarantee, which is the Republic of Serbia. So, it's like a means of security that the credit will come back, whether it's subject to obligation, whether there's some grace period and what the conditions are. It has been a practice so far that, as the agreement is ratified, it comes to the National Assembly and the National Assembly adopts a law on guarantees and counterguarantees for credit. As much as my memory serves, we probably passed a dozen such laws in the National Assembly, which means that as you wrote in Article 5, it means that in 2006, we'll probably pass six or seven more laws on guarantee and counter-guarantee for these loans, because it's written so. In your reply, it is – in accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the obligation to pay off public debt rather than new borrowing. If this is what you stated in Article 5(1) is existing borrowing and some liabilities based on existing borrowing, and it is about guarantee and counter-guarantee, then it is a different story. In Article 5(1), which covers this amount of 43 billion, if this is some new borrowing in 2006, and there is an obligation to issue guarantees and counterguarantees, then you can't give us such an answer. So, with the amendment, we wanted to draw attention to dangerous borrowing and also to get space to show that we're pretty much, unsuspectingly and unwarrantedly using these resources of loans that are coming. I have to remind you: probably depending on the 20-35% loan total arrangement, or individual loan goes to some of the services provided by foreign partners, and that's a kind of money laundering. Let's get this straight. It's usually about some consulting services. Why would we now allow someone to launder their money, return the money, so we can transfer it to new generations, because these are all loans that have deadlines, somewhere, over five years, probably 10 years, with some even grace period is about five years. That's the kind of arrangement you used to make. So if what's in point one point two and three, please keep in mind, we're not going to vote for it in 2006 when these material regulations come in here, not even for this budget. As for the public debt situation, we formally-legally had to cover it, only formally-legally, but essentially we have nothing against this attitude 2 that gives a recapitulation of what the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia is and what our obligations are. Please bear that in mind when voting on this amendment and possibly this amendment, Mr Dinkic, may be the reason that possibly the Government, the Finance Committee and someone else who is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or who is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, intervenes with one amendment in order to bring this into line if you are in the positions that I have tried to make. So what you have stated in your view about this amendment, especially this last sentence, does not correspond to how Article 5(1) of this bill begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22250	The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22251	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as Article 5 is concerned, this is exactly the last thing the predecessor said. So, in the very explanation of the rejection of the amendment in the last sentence of my technical service, they made a mistake. Of course, Article 5 is about issuing guarantees and counterguarantees to the Republic of Serbia of up to 43 billion dinars. As you know, in every budget that we have adopted so far, we have always established the maximum framework, but the specific responsibilities over the year depended on the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the concrete laws here are being put to the vote and we have really been in minimal debt both in 2004 and in 2005 and therefore our participation in the social gross product has fallen significantly in the last two years. I'd just like to say that this is about projects that have been carefully chosen, about infrastructure where we can't find funds from domestic sources. That is why we are prepared as the Republic of Serbia, if the Assembly approves it, to issue adequate guarantees and counter-guarantees, because we have to restore our railways, trains go slowly and should invest well to restore Serbia's railways. Also, there are a lot of funding missing from railway vehicles and also related to Corridor 10, according to a bypass around Belgrade. You've seen the traffic jam yourself. It is a good thing we have more and more traffic, but it is necessary to build a bypass around Belgrade that will allow for better traffic across Corridor 10 as well as towards the Belgrade-Croatian border. I have to say, this is where they're given, in this bill, guarantees, they're mostly public enterprises. Given that we now have the Directorate for Roads as a public enterprise, then, in case this contract is concluded with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Assembly would decide whether to issue a guarantee, i.e. a counter-guarantee. It is two banks, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. We also believe that there is a need to invest in PTT Serbia, given that they do not have enough resources to build this main post office and KDC, and therefore we have approved the possibility of issuing a guarantee. It is important to allow local self-governments to have different facilities to build sewers, plumbing and other municipal infrastructures. Many governments of foreign countries are directly communicating with local self-governments and we are ready to issue special guarantees for some of these projects, especially when it comes to projects that are larger in size, especially when it comes to cities that do not have the means themselves to be in charge of the Public Debt Act, so we believe that we have made one selection in relation to the needs of the country. These are indeed minimal needs and relate to infrastructure, therefore, of national importance such as railways and roads or regional and local importance, such as municipal infrastructure. Just one more explanation, as far as my predecessor's paying off the Mobtel debt. It is true that Mr Djelic returned 35m euros, in early December 2003, to the "Mobtel", despite the fact that, according to our Ministry of Finance's assessment, it was not required by law. That is why, as soon as the new Government of the Republic of Serbia was established, we gave the order to renew the procedure. A previous solution has been annulled and the money has been returned to Serbia's budget with interest. So in the summer of 2004, 40m euros from the Mobtel were returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget, or 35m euros from the capital, and plus fivem euros in interest for the entire period in question. I just want to say, since it was said here that it was true that the previous government returned those 35m euros in December before the elections, and that we charged it, and it has now been in the Republic of Serbia's budget since 2004, but with interest, so 40m euros instead of 35m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22252	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22253	Mr. Dinkic, it's a good thing we removed this technical problem first. Now let's just explain some things. The Ministry of Finance, when making a predicate, drafts, the text of the draft budget, takes account of budget users' demands. It is clear here, as regards Article 5(1), that public undertakings and the minister in charge of capital investment are as the applicant and who speaks of the need. I do not dispute that it is quite obvious that this is about some of the requirements concerning investment in something that is the fastest one can say, infrastructure of general interest, of general importance. You weren't there, at first I pointed out one problem that all these investments, if nothing else, to reject 90% of what's in the paper, are in some way problematic in terms of using funds. I would remind you, that we have made one decision this year that is associated with a future concession when it comes to one such arrangement. I'd like to remind you of just one very important detail, which is why we challenged this decision. It concerns the highway from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. The law even included a share that was completed, where the future concessionaire is given the right, or obligation, to maintain that share, since the costs of maintenance exceed the possibility of the Road Directorate. You know what's going on and what can happen. The public company PTT traffic is in a difficult situation, although it is a formal-legal creditor of almost all the real estate used by Telecom. It is likely that most know that and that a significant part of PTT's turnover is achieved through leases. You are probably aware that the formal-legal company is a shareholder on behalf of the state and at the "Mobtel" in that percentage that remains controversial. You are probably aware that, one woman, Judge of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, after not knowing how many years, perhaps seven, eight or nine years, changed her decision to register the first founder. The turtle's here. We don't know what's going on with that lady, if she's been resolved -- not resolved, whether she's been suspended, whether something's been done, probably something's been done about it. It's unacceptable to find out afterwards, let me be such a merciful, guff officer. What do you mean, it's always guff, and Karic's coming in? Yeah, that's right. The public company PTT traffic in Serbia as a shareholder in Mobtel, as Mobtel must have some gain. I fully understand that they are very skilled at blowing up costs in a system of tied companies around "Mobtel", BK TV, "Astra Simit", and astra this, and astra that imports washing machines from China, everything and everything. Yeah, they launder money, they pull it out, so the daughter gets four million, because she's a big singer, and I can figure it out. But I can't figure out that the state has to be in charge of some things, and to improve control and prevent this leak, the outflow, we're almost powerless. There's just nothing we can do. I can't do that. It's not just this government, that you don't get me wrong. That obstruction, that purchase of judges, that buying of clerks, that's a long time ago with us, but it's got to stop somewhere. If it doesn't stop, it gets abnormal dimensions and threatens the state tissue. If we destroy the state tissue, we don't exist as a nation or as a citizen, we don't exist, remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22254	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't get a decision from the Ministry why my amendment wasn't accepted, but that doesn't change the matter. Before I move on to the defense of the amendment, I see that the others have received the proposal, I was probably lost somewhere, just to continue with a few words where Mr Krasic stopped, and it is related to sucking up funds from all businesses, wherever I can, by Karic. On the side that's Danica and Daniela, that's what D&D invented those cards where your numbers are when you buy a prepaid loan to get into the phone, so they receive eight million dollars a month and some dinars. To the side of what Mr Krasic was saying. A photocopy of the contract to pay money, duet D&D 44 thousand and 500 and some euro monthly rent for business space, which is located in business apartments above the former restaurant "Athens". Is "Mobtel," if he needed a business space, he had to be right here in the terraces of 28, and if he had to be there, did anyone from the Karic family have to take a business space to rent? This should be discussed primarily by this government, primarily by the ministry responsible for the portfolio, and in addition by the Ministry of Minister Jocic, and Minister Stojkovic, etc. A huge robbery in the public eye and nothing! It's said here at the pay phone, it passes, it goes into the stenogram, and it doesn't move on from there. Will this government do anything about such a robbery that the company band, I mean the music orchestra, Serbia's robbery? I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 where, in my first position, I ask that the amount of 502.884.156.000 be replaced by 487.900,000, and that the difference – which is otherwise obtained by taxing everything, literally everything, from child's food, children's clothing; even at the worst of Tito's time, and in the time of Slobodan Milosevic, children's food and children's clothing was freed from all taxes; we have introduced VAT, we have burdened everything, from bread through agricultural repromation, via drugs, above all, and then created surpluses or has not been created, but apparently has it here, it is irrelevant – it is primarily in the development of the business, in the development of agriculture, in increasing pensions, if it is possible, especially social programs of those who have remained without work in this sloppy privatisation, which has been led since 2000. Because by 2000, remember, only 49% of Telecom was sold, everything else was sold during this period. A million people are almost now on the labour desks and a million people are out of work at the time. What this coalition government has long been proud of is this coalition capacity. The parties have a large coalition capacity. The smaller the party, the larger its coalition capacity. Translated in Serbian, that means anyone who pays can. Anyone who pays more, can do more with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, such a coalition capacity also has those ladies at the train station.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22256	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22257	The point of this amendment, I think Mr Dinkic figured out what it was about. We are now asking the question of what budget funds are, are budget funds what is stated as income and as expenditure in Article 1 or what you stated at the beginning of Article 6? If this is what is at the beginning of Article 6, then this means that our public spending framework, which is treated by the Republic of Serbia's budget, is 502 billion. This is contrary to what is stated in Article 1 or to be even more precise, what you have according to structure in Article 2 where you said that the total income would be 487 billion, that the costs would be 448 billion, that the surplus would be 39.5 billion. Then you're really surprised when you start with a number of 502 billion. You are participating in the distribution of 502 billion in almost all positions, economic classifications treated by Article 6, as Article 6 gives a specific part of the budget where it is given precisely by users, for the purposes of how much funds are intended for public spending covered by this draft budget. As a result, Mr Markovic submitted the amendment and requested that the amount of 502 billion be replaced by 487, corresponding to Article 2(1) point 1). There is a solution. So if you don't accept this, that would mean that you have to intervene with the amendment, so that in Article 2 point 1 point 1) you change. I know what this is about. It's about their own incomes, but they have to get involved. Your own income, as you analytically show them, is a technical question, but these are incomes and they go into consumption. That's what I told you a year ago. It was a similar situation. What's public spending on us being treated with budgets? So it only limits to what is required to be placed in the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, the revenues are taken into account, all those expenditures, for which there is a commitment from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now incomes have different sources: taxes, customs, taxes, fines and their own incomes. Income is also due, etc. What's going on? All that is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia: salaries, material costs, specific programmes, state administration investment, if it has its own development part of the budget, transfers of funds to investment funds, state investment funds, transfers of funds to municipalities, transfers of funds towards compulsory social insurance, etc. You cannot, in a consolidated public spending balance, show the cost of the Republic of Serbia's 487 budget and nominally divide 502 billion. So he has to get along. If you define yourself for a concept that starts with Article 2 then Article 6 must also rewrite that amount referred to in Article 2. If you share this with which Article 6. - 502 billion, then you have to rewrite Article 2. We're interested in how much the state costs. The state can't cost in one variant this much, in another variant another. And it is its own income that is realised, which is public income and must be shown as public income and not only in the special section within column 6 or 7, but also on the side of the revenue defined by Article 2. It's a bill of law. That's the point of this amendment, which Mr. Markovic submitted, because we wanted to define it. In the light of the amendment, we have opened another topic. If, on the basis of your own income, you come up to 502 billion, then, in order not to show up this virtual surplus, it should affect some revenue reduction. Whether by changing the tax rate, if you're going to reduce the rate of customs duties, whether you're going to cut taxis, whether you're going to cut some other revenues, but the normal consequence of this would be tax cuts. If you consider that debts should be paid back, please show them on the cost side this year, because this situation that exists now in the bill, and it is viewed in an obvious difference between Articles 2 and 6 in the amount of the allocation funds, it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22258	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Milorad Belic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22259	It seems a little stereotyped when we only refer to these members, attitudes and economic classifications. This refers to a division treated by the President of the Republic, meaning it refers to a state body. We are looking for (it is a split of 2, function 110, EC 422, there are travel costs, it is proposed that the amount of 30.5 million dinars be reduced to 10 million. Of course, you can see that we've connected this to Section 7 regarding the Coordination Centre. The government has come to terms with what Mr. Bhuha has suggested. The government is stereotyped, all of these amendments concerning concrete amounts of funds, says it has decided that it takes so much to identify these funds, taking into account the demands of the beneficiaries of the budget. If that's what I'm wondering, that's where Tadic could have asked for 500 million. You know, because of this and this kind of cohabitation, the government probably has to swallow everything and everything to keep that president from getting mad at him. And he returns to her by showing up whenever a state statement is contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, it is contrary to almost all international acts that regulate peace, borders, human rights in Europe, and I am not telling you that it is clearly contrary to the Constitutional Charter and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. One such statement by Mr Tadic was that it was necessary to consider whether members of a national minority in a referendum wanted to live in our country or not. If they don't want to, let them form their own country and make it their second country. Because of such a statement, probably in a state with normal parliamentary democracy, he would have had to resign the next day, because an odyssey of public opinion would have been such as to tell that man – I'm sorry, please, but you are no longer our representative since you lost your legitimacy. Yesterday we heard about legality and legitimacy here. What's next? We're the only country where the president is funded through donations. We're the only country where the president has his ombudsman, I may have made a mistake. There's this yellow Gilas, who built the Democratic Party's capillary network, where they're supposed to be fighting for some human rights. I don't know how they fight for human rights. All I know is everybody screams when they get the letter. A very nice and cultural letter by system – we feel with your pain that you have not been resolved any questions, but we would have solved that if we were in power and not in power, because you drove us away a year ago. Really, I'm asking the government: if you've passed the Law on the Protector of Citizens, then why do you need the funding of the National Office? There's no clear indication in the budget that this is about the People's Office. Look at all these positions treated by the President of the Republic, you won't find those two words – People's Office. If you look at the structure of the General Secretariat and those who work in the presidency building, then you will notice this: in 2004, there were 25 employees, in 2005 count on 62 and they will fill the capacity with 62, because, for God's sake, the President of the Republic should not have more employees than the General Secretariat of the Government. So, they're going to have 62 employees, and now I'm asking a question: what is the 'one of these employees'? If Leon Kojen, Bataković, Gilas, and half of Idola, and Alexandra Drecun, have passed the Law on the financing of political parties, this one run by The Hague (with women's glasses), if they advise him, Mr Dinkic, we have robbed Bosnia. I'm accusing the government of cooperating with them. You know it hurts and you spend money on Serbian citizens to make it more effective for the state. Yesterday, there was little shortage of passage in the text of Resolution one point where he was forbidden to ask anything about Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know where the idea of government, from 25 employees to 62. This percentage of the increase in the number of employees is not present in any state body. Remember, while he was at the Department of Defense for Advisors, he took people who didn't serve the army to give strategic advice; so when Tadic left, he boasted, and now I served the army. He hired pensioners, that Veljko Kadjivić, the major, so he put in Americans, English, everything and everything he did. I don't know how he got so much magic, if he'd cast you so much light, he drugged you. He shits, you give money faster, just keep him quiet so there's no fuss. Serbian citizens can't take it anymore. We cannot bear that the President of the Republic is so clearly representing some views that are contrary to the vital interests of this people. They conflict with the Charter of the United Nations, with the Helsinki documents, with the Charter of New Europe, with Resolution 1244. Yesterday, all those who challenged the proposed resolution went beyond position 1244. Those poor people didn't know they voted against dead Djindjic yesterday. If they have problems with Ced Jovanovic, let them resolve party gatherings, in the streets, in the squares, on some televisions, but we cannot finance Boris Tadic's party campaign. See what damage it would be to the state if he traveled a little more often. He's probably one of the few presidents to be quarantined. It's funny to you, but it's sad for this country. In the second round, he was elected president, all of you gave him support, and the next day he says against you, whatever you will, the people have chosen me. Says – The government lost its legitimacy because it has 15% popularity. Maybe that's true, it probably is true, but why don't they say how popular Boris Tadic is. Enormous! Let her be enormous, but let her say it. Once the Constitution suits them, the Constitution doesn't answer them! One time 1244 suits them, another time 1244 doesn't answer! Once the Charter answers them, the second time it doesn't answer! It's probably under the influence of that Wolf Draskovic. In 1999, he leaped out of happiness, he says – peace prevailed, now the Security Council will take care of us. What happened? Just what we told him here in this congregation happened. So we're asking that these costs be reduced, because we're fundamentally doubting that with the increased costs of official travel, he's getting the chance to do more damage, and this way, if we limit his costs of official travel, we're sure that the less damage he'll do. He can't do anything right. The whole of Serbia says there is no going to the elections, and he says – no, there has to be elections. His Oliver Ivanovic and that Slavisa Petkovic came, and after three months, he concluded that he was wrong. If we can't change the will of the public and we don't have to change it, I'm not for it, but we have to narrow it down somehow, even with these costs, there's a need to cut it down. He's very nice to pretend to be gallant through the People's Office. He caught Bubal, grabbed this for economic relations with abroad, and caught the health minister. Citizens have problems with the state's economic situation, they turn to the president, the president invites them, they smudge something, some kid gets something, some protection is provided. I don't mind that, but he's using your resources, raising his own popularity, and from those positions he's ruining the country. I don't want you to get me wrong, that I'm defending you from the President of the Republic. No, I am pleased to see it coming out, so all the citizens see that this kind of intercourse, the cohabitation between you, is impossible. If it were possible, you'd all be at Micunovic's in the first party, but you've split up. They share their responsibility and citizens when they go to the polls, so they think you're that democratic although contentious bloc. When it comes to social democracy in the West, that's what they all say about arguing, they can never agree on anything, they just argue. It costs taxpayers. With this amendment, we want to cut costs and bring to the fact that Boris Tadic is not so often in a position to harm Serbian citizens, because whatever he does is too bad. He faces the problem of Cedomir Jovanovic, he faces the problem of establishing relations with Milo Djukanovic, whose money Milo Djukanovic brings to Cedomir Jovanovic and that Natasa Micic and the system of NGOs. For a subversive act against the people, not against the state, but against the people. You know it all and you must know it and you gallantly share it with a hat and a hand. Serbia's citizens, at least those who support the SRS, and you know it is a growing and higher percentage every day, do not want to finance such Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22260	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22261	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that one aspect of a lawyer is that they talk so much and that completely divorce and loss of essence, and here the essence is so that it can be said that this amendment is actually good, but it missed the goal. Do you know why? Not by the proposer's fault. The economic classification of 422 - travel costs should not be reduced to Mr. President of the State. For God's sake, the president of the state should represent us in the world. He's our ambassador of goodwill. But what's the point? The President of the State must not form a para-state institution on the cost of government. That's the bottom line, which is why I said the target was missed. The only thing I can blame Mr. Secretary for is that in this part, not his fault, it's not a transparent budget, because you can't see where the costs of the National Office are, which is a para-state institution, because it's formed by the president of the state, not by law. We're legally forming an institution and we have it, and it's the Guardian of Citizens. It's a division of 46, where the budget plans the Citizens' Protector with 30 million. The National Office is planned with 36 million, much more than the one that should essentially carry out the function of protecting citizens in a legally defined way. This para-state institution, unfortunately, is also in division 133, was placed under general and other services, so Mr. Gilas is not the director of the National Office, he is the director of the sector for others and general services. That's something that's wrong, because Mr. President can't, and he promised, before the Civil Protection Act, that the moment that this law is passed, the People's Office will be abolished, because it loses its purpose, it loses its goal. Not only has it not been lifted, but every time a walk through Serbia opens two new ones, as a rule where there is no Democratic Party network. I apologize to the Minister, but in this way, not by his fault, Mr. President of the State is funding a para-state institution, or the DS network on our cost. That's how it's inadmissible. And if we knew our own time, timely, if that division were 130 and the People's Office, we would suggest that the full amount of that money be taken down and transferred either to the public's protector or to some better purpose, not like this. We cannot support this amendment just because we disagree that the president of the state should not travel. He's supposed to travel, but he shouldn't travel and open public offices at our expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22262	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and then Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22263	First, I must warn you that the amendment was filed by Mr. Milorad Buh, Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska, the Western Serbian Republic, and unfortunately now in the refugee system, because it is occupied by the Ustasha Croatian authorities. Then Mr. Buha, as a rational and reasonable man, and above all the one who represents hundreds of thousands of displaced people of our country, had in mind that Boris Tadic, who wrote to you in his explanation, first of all the president of the DS. He has since the day of taking office, and thanks to you from the DSS, because you did not vote for an honest man and a true patriot who showed it yesterday and here, for who knows which time, Tomislav Nikolic, but for this traitor Boris Tadic, came to the opportunity to spend state money. Yesterday I said nice things, they really say to the Shumadins about people like him, that they don't dress up in the same sense every day, and you can see by his behavior that he's not normal. The President of the Republic, who, at a moment crucial to the state and the people, when resolving the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and the survival of our people, spent money and went away (and it is commendable that he remembered to go) to the Russian Federation. And Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, without anyone's approval and mandate, explains that the only way to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue is by dividing it into two entities. Well, you know, it's already for impeachment! You, at the end of the day, also plead to Kostunica, who sat here and listened to all those, in the right sense of the words, the abominations, which were against the interests of the state and the people, were both Dusan Petrovic and that Micicka and the entire Corps. And to ask yourself nicely whether it is normal for Serbia to have such a president of the state, that you keep silent and that it violates its constitutional powers. You saw how far they stood yesterday and said, "What do we care what resolution you will vote here today?" We Serbian radicals, as always, have called for national unity. He will represent the interests as he thinks and the way he thinks. That is why we also consider it because he never thought to raise the issue of the Republika Srpska Krajina, and what is even worse... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... against the state and the people, as the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, such a sinister plan and such attitude before Vladimir Putin and on such return statements also focused on the Republika Srpska. Do you know what he said? While we strive to prove to you by various examples what is truly insurmountable that Republika Srpska is occupied, that there people, political parties, representatives of any sphere of social life do not have a single shred of freedom, he says was an excellent Dayton Agreement... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... The highest degree of multiethnicity has been achieved, everything is working perfectly. Then you must know it's really a man who doesn't rule himself. The second is, of course, present with him, it is that Americans and others rule, so said Radeta's colleague, but also that he has a true attitude directed against the interests of the state and the people. That is why Mr. Buha has submitted this amendment and you should accept it, as it is only a personal promotion of Boris Tadic, no defence of Serbia's interest, and unfortunately chosen with the help of your votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22264	The word has a People's MP, Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22265	Ladies and gentlemen, we New Serbia's MPs have already pointed out several times the damage to the country of the general existence of the National Office or so on. People's offices, or as Professor Stamenkovic called the state institutions. We also talked about this when we talked about the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, we talked about it recently when we talked about the draft budget law in principle. For the sake of the general public, I would only point to a few more facts. You see 35.9 million is scheduled for funding the National Office. It is true that we have all been mistaken as MPs, because in the draft budget law, we could not precisely define the division of this para-state institution, which is an economic classification. I can say from this pay phone, for sure, not only New Serbia's MPs, but most of the MPs sitting in this house would submit an amendment and ask for the institution or the para-state institution to be abolished. So 35.9m is scheduled to finance the National Office, and 30.8m to fund the Citizens' Protectors, which is also defined by the Constitution. In this house, the law is defined and there is an exact classification, or division that concerns it, and what is more important than that, there are powers of the Protector of the Citizens, so indeed, in one appropriate and true way, to protect the rights of all citizens if they are at risk on any basis. Therefore, it is also thought to propose an initiative to recall individual officials, civil servants, etc. The salaries of the National Office are scheduled for 19.6 million. Serbian citizens had a chance a few days ago at Mr. Ilic's TV duel and the president or director of the National Office, Gilas, to see what kind of personality it is. No wonder it's the first man of the National Office and the first man of the president of the state, indeed, then citizens can rightly wonder what this is all about. Just to remind them that the references of the president of the state have already been known to the public, especially as Minister of Transport and Telecommunications, Minister of Defence and finally what is happening now, I agree absolutely with colleagues who spoke before me about the very harmful activity of the state interests of the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic. Because Mr. Tadic cannot possibly define and coordinate whether he is the president of the Democratic Party or the president of Serbia's citizens. In these dissonant tones, we in New Serbia, and I believe citizens, wouldn't be too "insulting" if he were to work at the expense of the Democratic Party, it's a small shame. But while he's already doing this the way he does and because of his performances and dissonant tones in relation to other state bodies, I think it's an immeasurable damage. Furthermore, in the National Office you have services under the 3.5 million contract, and travel and permanent expenses foreseen 5.5 million. So, for these services and those travels, the entire nine million. It's a big item. Indeed, this could also be an objection to the Ministry of Finance, or to the promoter, only because MPs were not in a position to see which division, which economic classification refers to the People's Office. New Serbia's MPs will certainly launch an initiative to assess legality and constitutionality, but not the decision of the President of the Republic, but simply seek interpretation on the basis of which law, on the basis of which rules and whether there is constitutional and legal basis for the existence of the National Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22266	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a first question for Mr. Chairman – where did your minister go?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22268	I hear he went to the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22269	Which board, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22270	I don't know exactly, Mr. Wolfie, but I can see that the minister's things are here and I'm guessing he's out for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22271	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, when we discussed the report on the work and expenditure of the Kosovo and Metohija Co-ordination Centre, had numerous objections. Here we saw how many illogicalities, how many amazing data. It's interesting that, although it came upon the condemnation of the act of power, above all the DSS representatives, no one responded to it afterwards. No one responded that a septic cave in a village near Novi Brda cost 350,000 dinars. I wonder what it costs 350,000 dinars, what workers to pay to dig up a septic pit for one afternoon and cost that much? Especially since we have construction of non-existent objects and various other wonders, fuel costs, phone costs for those who represent no one in Kosovo and Metohija and not to talk. We have a case in Serbia today that some say - Serbian representatives from Kosovo are asking! We ask – who are representatives of Serbs from Kosovo? We're just asking for representatives of the Serbs. They say: which these people choose for themselves, not all kinds of guys who are close to a particular intelligence service of another country. He chose himself as a representative of the Serbs. I ask all of you in the O.R. to come out and tell me who Oliver Ivanovic represents? He is a member of a small insignificant party, Karic or Covic, I don't know what, what does this have to do with representing our people in Kosovo and Metohija? Who are they that call him every day to ask him something, to make a comment somewhere? Were there any choices to be chosen? There were elections, there were 300 people in that election, and 120,000 didn't want to see or hear it. His own wife wouldn't vote for him, not anyone else. When we talk about this budget division, we have absolutely non-intentional spending of money. We do not spare and we do not regret the money given for Kosovo and Metohija. We do not think that money should not be given to both Kosovo and Metohija, or Presevo and Bujanovac, or any region in Serbia, but we do not have that on behalf of Kosovo and Metohija, that on behalf of Presevo and Bujanovac, some fill their pockets and not just their pockets, but how I like to say "load into trucks" and that the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens does not benefit from it. We ask you, what benefit did Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija or Serbs and Albanians in Bujanovac, Presevo or any other part of our country benefit? We asked here to comply with what the money was set in the budget for, to transfer that money to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if you know, Russia today, except that it has 150 billion foreign exchange reserves, the fourth is in the world; the country that was 80th in the world has come to fourth place in foreign exchange reserves, and there's $400 billion in the Stabilisation Fund. Their stabilisation fund is something that should represent the Development Fund in our country. It would be good if we could use it that way and if we had more money in the Development Fund, if we spent those financial resources on purpose. As far as work is concerned, just the Coordination Centre and the way that money is spent, I have to say I don't always understand how that money is spent. For people who weren't in those places, say, in the Bujanovo and Presevo municipality, you have a village, I think it's called Osmaki, maybe I was wrong in one letter, you see exactly the part, because it's a mixed village, which is Serbian and it's Albanian. A whole new school was built in the Albanian part, everything was built, and nothing was built in the Serbian part. I don't mind being built by Albanians. They are our citizens, I suppose they are loyal to Serbia, at least that's how it should be, and I hope that this wave of separatism and this wave of attacks on Serbia will not spread through the geometric progression, as some say they are already meeting today and seeking much greater rights, except for the Hungarian party in Vojvodina, etc., I see that they have some appointments today. It is those who say that every day human rights are being threatened, that they are the happiest when Serbia gets a noose around its neck and when only someone is waiting to pull out a chair under our country and that finally the state no longer exists. As far as this place is concerned, therefore, Serbs are more incomparably poor than Albanians, and it would be good for the Serbian government to look at how and how that money is spent. On the other hand, yesterday's session of the Serbian Parliament showed exactly how and how things will take place in Serbia, as well as how those who want Kosovo's conditional independence can bring it and whose help they will try to do so. After yesterday's session, the foreign minister sent a statement (since they were silent as mice here, as usual, because they must never say anything in person, they are people) against the SRS, in which they accused us of debate, I didn't understand, you could read it in today's "Politice", there was information on BETA and TANJUG. It bothered them that we spoke at all, they don't mind being in the coalition with the SPS, and that thanks to Slobodan Milosevic Vuk Draskovic, he was appointed foreign minister. It's all right, but it bothered them that we freely expressed ideas and our political views. On the other hand, it has been shown what kind of coalition is being made in Serbia along with the said Draskovic: there will be Tadic and Karic, and there will be this axis that will try to, not only break up, but to break Serbia, to accept the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, explaining that Kosovo and Metohija should be the euro region or I don't know what. Here, we have achieved special status for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, you have received your four municipalities, northern Mitrovica, Zubin Potok, Leposavic and Zvecan. We got a lot of money for churches and monasteries. We've got security, and now we're going on conditional independence, and we're all going to be in Europe real quick, so the borders won't even exist. It'll be no matter where anyone lives. I tell you in advance what this plan will be and it will be on the public shopping list, and some foreign countries will offer our country and will obviously find their allies. For all of this it is much better, since it is obvious that we will have huge problems and that both the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia will face terrible problems, it is much better that we do not spend money on stupidity and that they can use the way they will. It is much better to spend money on purpose, to use this money in the best possible way in the interests of the Serbian and Serbian state, not to use some thieves for their further wealth. It's like they have little fairies today, 10 cars, a few houses, bank accounts and safes you can't even figure out how much money they have. So Serbia is fed up with such things and is fed up with pointless spending of money, money to be told that many works are constantly being achieved, and none of them have ever seen any of them. I can tell you, every day we watch both Tadic and Kostunica boast, how big investments arrive in Serbia. The largest investments go down into the Zemun municipality in Serbia. The job has been completed and within a month, I expect Knauf, one of the world's most famous, to invest more than 30m euros in the factory. So, you have a meadow, not where the thief's privatisation is, what someone puts two or five million euros in their pocket when they take a Sartid or another firm, and that company is doing well, there's no big philosophy, there's no taking a meadow and making a new factory and hiring a hundred new people, obviously there's only in radical municipalities, because people have been struggling for two or three years to get all the permits. For two or three years, a vice-president of the government was stalling them, so the most powerful Austrian firm, the company that is the strongest in this part of Europe and has about 440 billion euros in traffic, I don't know if you know what it is. Their exports will be the largest in Serbia, with Sartid, of course, and you can see if there is any in other municipalities, and also boast about your Greenfield projects, where they are again in Zemun. The growing investments are where the radicals are, so ask them who are the most pleased, who first came to meet them, whether Gordana Pop-Lazic or Nenad Bogdanovic. It's good, the time has come for you to stop talking about how just for political support, because they liked how you burned the Assembly and lynched Dragoljub Milanovic, and we don't need charity. We need factories, we need foreign investments, direct investments to produce. We need a state that will take care of itself, not a state that will watch it disappear as soon as possible, and that is why this position of the SRS is very important. So I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment, because we did not come here to this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to abolish our own country, to abolish our country and to boast ourselves that we are becoming some kind of region. We don't want to become a region. Maybe someone's got a pretty blue-yellow or a yellow-blue flag. My flag and our flag, the flag of this assembly and this country is, let me remind you, red and blue and white. It's the flag of Serbia. Take care of it. Don't destroy Serbia for anyone else's interests, because as I said yesterday, we don't have a spare country, we only have one Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22272	Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22273	I'm using my right to replicate. I am reporting by article 101 because I believe there is a reason to replicate, since I do not want to enter certain views that Mr. Vukic, on his behalf and on behalf of his party, has stated. I think it deserves the public of Serbia to know some facts after all. In 2003, when the elections were held, the SRS in Kosovo won 40% of the vote, but Mr Oliver Ivanovic's party, and now the SDP, and then the Democratic Alternative, won just over 17% of the vote. I believe that those 17% of the votes, won by the party, whose representative and carrier in Kosovo was Oliver Ivanovic, still have on the basis of those 17% certain credibility to report as representatives of at least those 17% of Serbs in Kosovo. The second thing, I really think that the representatives of Serbs from Kosovo must also participate in something that, above all, concerns their future and their lives, and that representatives of Serbs from Kosovo should be people from all parties who have relevant representation in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think we should bid on such things here because it doesn't contribute to harmony, it contributes to further conflict at the moment we least need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22274	I assume you're referring to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22275	First of all, I'm someone who knows the election results well, not 17%, but 11%. Secondly, I have to tell you something, I agree with you that we have representatives of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but don't represent Oliver Ivanovic then as representatives of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but present him as a representative of the SDP, because he was not elected by Serbs from Kosovo anywhere, and they did not choose him anywhere, but was elected by the SDP. Not when another one, Gojko Savic, appears, to say, is another Serb representative from Kosovo, as his comment is, because he is not a representative of Serbs from Kosovo, but a representative of the SDP. There's no big philosophy here. The largest Serb representative from Kosovo and Metohija is Tomislav Nikolic. If you want to talk about the Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, it is Ljuba Kragovic. Nowhere do you see Ljuba Kragovic being called and said, a representative of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Is that true? Is that what the basic facts of all choices say, whatever you turn? That's right. Where did you hear that someone represented Ljubu Kragovic or Dragutin Peric as a representative of Serbs from Kosovo? No one's anywhere, because that's what cheating is about. That's what I'm talking about all the time. It's a simple trick, and I don't think it's yours, not because I'm afraid to tell you anything or answer it, but I think a lot of larger and stronger structures that it's a serious scam, because they're going to take their own and say it – the Serbian representative said it. Oh, yeah, who picked him? Where'd he pick him? In which elections, let the representative of each party speak, we will never forbid it to anyone and let them state their position whatever they want, whatever they want. That's why he has to gain the trust of the people and certain votes. So, master, you want to be a representative of that and that, you can, and for that, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have to vote, and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija didn't vote for it. You invited Serbs to the elections: Petkovic, Oliver Ivanovic, Tadic and I don't know who. 500 people didn't go to that occupation election. Is that the legitimacy? Don't lose your mind, it was at a time when under their control they had a coordination centre with a lot of financial resources, spent in an election campaign, and conditions, and blackmail and everything else, and again people voted for the SRS to the greatest extent possible. And not in the largest, but convincingly the largest for the SRS. Ljuba Kragovic is not a representative of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but is a representative of the SRS, and these are all representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, and associations and various groups that do not represent anyone alive. Who is this Slavisa Petkovic, besides helping the Shiptars? Sometimes I feel like believing in Ferra and Lombroz's theory. This criminal comes on a television set in Serbia and you watch him, you just wonder if it's possible for this man to tell you what he's saying. He says: yes, I took more electricity and fuel to Serbs, etc. You are a genius, but that's why you destroyed the country. That's why Serbia disappears in Kosovo and Metohija, because you took 100 liters of fuel to a local radio station. Because you took the electricity to a village. Not because you're working with Albanians against the state of Serbia, which is why the state of Serbia is disappearing. That's the thing. Let's get things cleaned up. Let representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija go – do you want to organise some elections in Kosovo and Metohija now? You want anything, anytime? To see what people would be like, to see who their representatives are. Then let's call these people representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. We've been facing this kind of fraud for 10 years. When something needs to collapse, drills in Serbia, then we have self-called experts, these are today in the government, they have declared themselves experts. Who gave them that title? Remember 1997, 1998, when that was coming out? These are experts, these are geniuses for this, these are representatives of Serbs from Kosovo, selecting themselves. They gave themselves the title of academics, they assigned it to themselves and that. Is there anyone in this country that has earned something fair, even in elections, that the people may give him something? We're just looking for it and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22276	The word has an MP, Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were said to be silent as mice yesterday. We may be mice, but you gentlemen are rodents who have sucked the blood out of the Serbian people over the past 10 years. Yesterday I thought for a moment that a time machine had returned me to the '90s, listening to your speeches. Your policy was clear, and it's clear where she got us. You've been pounding for 10 years at the expense of Serbia and the Serbian people, and now someone's come to make an account of that banging of yours. It's time for you to figure it out. You need to keep your mouth shut, you don't have to say anything, because everything you've had has been said for the past 10 years. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica. I didn't mention Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22278	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22279	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I confess, what she said, beaver, rodent, something like that, I admit. Nice, they're noble animals, they're very important for the preservation of the biosphere. I need to tell you something. I don't know what a time hole is. You're the only one who got into the deepest political hole you'll never get out of again. That hole is so deep that now, no matter how much money you've stolen for all these years to the people of Serbia, you can't contribute to 1.5%. You will talk about those who today have the support of 40% of the people in Serbia. You are not ashamed and ashamed to go out and speak, to spit in our people's faces, you who have no one behind you, who has a foreign minister who watches where they will and will make mistakes to Serbia in every place. You who ruled in Belgrade, everything you've come to rob, you who rule today with the help of Slobodan Milosevic and the Socialist Party, and you said – they chose you a minister, they hold all these ministers and state secretaries. And those murderers, as you say, will choose you, so that's nice. You're talking about morality, what you're talking about. Since you're not ashamed and ashamed, you're giving us lessons here. Don't look at public opinion research, watch the election anywhere. Is there any place in Serbia where you got more votes than beavers, like this or like that? The beavers seem very popular in Serbia; and you spit it in the face of the people, you say, the people vote for beavers. Maybe the people are voting for beavers, but think about what kind you are. It's some sort that's very little popular in our country. The emissaries are getting out of the O.R. I didn't mean to say that. I thought so. It's true, but you say you listened, so you went into a time hole. So we listen to you every day, you have one and a half percent and every night, whatever news we start, we need to hear Vuk Draskovic. We keep our mouths shut and say nothing and let the unfortunate go, and we'll be satisfied, he's retired, the man's finished, it's over, so come on, he'll see. He won't see and you won't see. Now I'm telling you, say whatever you want. We can be white bears and whatever you want. Not just beavers, anything. (President: Time.) ) Wouldn't Mr. Mihailovic, you see one serious man, wouldn't he have left your party if he had seen that there was any future. It is clear to him and everyone else that there is no future. I didn't understand you, you were talking about a time hole in Kosovo and Metohija, about Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, you who didn't get any votes there. Only Rangel Nokic and no one else voted for himself, and he is also a representative of the Serbs. No one's ever voted for you, one percent you don't. You might get a lot more from Hashim Thaci, I'm sure, but you can never get more from Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Here, Mr. Mihailovic, thank you for showing the Serbian public in time that this party has no future, long before we do, I am telling them today, and they will see it in the next elections. I give you up to 2%. I'm taking everything over 2% to lunch for the entire assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22280	The word has the People's Messenger Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22281	First, you insulted the beavers. I didn't mean beavers, I meant rats. Furthermore, as regards the success of the SPO in Kosovo, only in Zvecan municipality did we have about 15 per cent. As for the place where we stand better than your party, the example works, we stand much better in Bogatić and we stand much better in Mionica, where you forge the electoral will of citizens, where today and today there comes a man who was not even on the SRS election list, named Zoran Dimitrijevic, who is 20 years older than the man who was on the election list. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Local Self-Government tolerates this day-to-day. Furthermore, as far as SRS and SPO are concerned, if I may say so, I would not compare it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22282	Here you are, Mr. Wolfie and I ask you to bring this controversy to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I admit I'm a rat, small, big, whatever. You know what Wait in the Corner is in British doctrine, when you're talking about it? I'll tell you now. The most dangerous are politicians and political parties when they are in such a position. I guess you didn't know that. You should have read a few books on this subject, although Mrs. Blagica is one of the most educated in the MPs' club. So that's when you press a military or political opponent in the corner. I'm counting on you not to insult us and say we're those animals. We're a little higher and a little more weight, if nothing else. So when you press them and they have no place else, they defend themselves with both hands and feet and with all their potential knowledge, with all their abilities. In that sense, thank you, yes, that's what we're doing, except we're not defending ourselves, but we're defending Serbia from people like you and your helpers. That's exactly what we're doing. I accept that kind of role. I'm sure you never meant to tell us anything ugly or insult us. On the other hand, you had 15 percent, they had 17 percent, they had 22 percent, the SPS 30 percent, and eventually the radicals had 'zero' percent. The ones we've won convincingly, we've had zero as much as you've all had percent. We may have gone to a place where we won most convincingly. I think there's something serious going on with you. As for Mionica, thank you for mentioning this, Darko Glisic will arrive now. Look what you've abused. We've got a number of mandates in Mionica, even, I don't know exactly how many. There's Zoran Dimitrijevic, B92 was making a story, it's a few people from Roma families who are all relatives and everyone knows who they voted for, but it came in one letter, so in the first letter, whether about citizenship or around, I don't know what, I don't know. It doesn't matter, it doesn't change the election will. I don't understand why you said that. No one understands why you said that. It's not clear to anyone, except for the sheer malice and depravity to say something, I didn't understand anything else you wanted to say. Let me tell you something else, let's get to the serious point, about what's going to happen to us in the future. I didn't come out here to easily beat your party, because you say it's not for comparison and I agree. When you compare 42 percent, it really isn't for comparison. It's like a quota for you when you play Chelsea versus, I don't know who to find for you, there's not as much a weak team as there is a SPO in Serbia, but some Wet One, about that quota, where we come to Chelsea, with all of Jose Murinja, and you the Wet One, so now you want to be a derby. Can't be a derby ever! Now something else that is much more serious for Serbia's future, not for our bickering and victory over someone who represents no one or little anyone in Serbia. We are expected in the future to have heavy and serious talks about Kosovo and Metohija. We in the SRS have agreed to be someone who will in a serious and constructive way do everything in his power to keep Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia. We therefore ignored the fact yesterday and all that the great politician Vuk Draskovic has repeatedly pleaded against Serbian radicals on the negotiating team. What does that matter to him? It's like someone told him. Just don't let them be on your team. We said -- okay, we won't, we won't ask, we won't condition, we won't blackmail, we'll vote for the resolution we've had objections to, not only legally-technically, but also more serious objections, so that we don't violate national unity on Kosovo and Metohija. The session ends – we vote it, your party attacks the SRS instead of those parties who voted against, did not vote or were abstentioned. For what? Because you are being dishonest and in that resolution, because you are being dishonest about wanting Kosovo and Metohija to be in Serbia. (President: Time.) ) Because that's what hurts you, because you want the forces that are for Kosovo's conditional independence to win in Serbia and because you're looking at whose list you're going to settle down to get into the National Assembly again, not just from the postcard. It's your only job. It's the only thing you can do and what you can do, nothing else. Here, I told you up to two percent, I gave you a lot. I'm taking over two percent of all these people here for lunch, and unlike these yellow ones, I'm doing the bets. They're betting on the Tower elections, they're losing everything, and then they're running from the Assembly, they can't come back. Honorable people don't do that. (President: Mr. Wolf, you've exceeded your time. I want to bring in some more serious political rival, not Mrs. Blagic, and I respect her personally, and I know that she didn't think to insult us or say some ugly word about us, but I am counting on someone who represents a more serious political party, a more serious political option, even with a lot more money. I hear some parties with much more money today want to mix again in the Assembly and determine Serbia's future. Citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a difficult time ahead. We will face attacks like this every day. We from the SRS will be their target. For what? We've been in opposition for five years. We didn't want to take part in that transitional government either. What's the problem with the SRS? There is one key problem - which, by coming to power, is what all Serbian radicals need to know, stop their transnge-fangs; this is his director, this is the chairman of the board of directors, so I'm going to set up a godfather for him for the PR, so this one's going to work there, so I'm going to set up the whole White Field to work here and there. He can't do that anymore. And because thieves will have to go to jail. That's what they know and that's why they fight the SRS so much. That's why we're gonna beat them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22284	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, concerns the rationalization of the savings that the SRS believes in. We are convinced that this projected budget for 2006 is too large and that major restrictions are needed. It specifically refers to the Office for Media Cooperation. The SRS is convinced that these jobs currently carried out by the Office for Media Cooperation can also be done without a problem by the General Secretariat of the Government and some savings, by accepting this amendment, would be about 44 billion dinars. So, above all, the reason for this proposal is to save, rationalise the spending of citizens' funds. The fact is that fiscal burdens on the economy and citizens are too high and that it is necessary to think about how, as much as possible, to relieve the economy. But another reason, in any case, should be, in the SRS' view, the state of information, when it comes to government work and the work of government-controlled institutions. The fact is that the situation is very bad, that we don't have the right information, that real information doesn't reach citizens, that there's too much embellishment and cover-up in the work of institutions that are with the government and that this is the way the Office of Media Co-operation behaves in any case encouraging corruption and abuse in our country. Maybe it's the most obvious and best example, an example of the Privatisation Agency where it's very difficult for you to get a valid and real piece of information about what's going on in a company. The control of the Agency itself and the control of the companies in the privatisation process is extremely sloppy, and perhaps the most picturesque example of the National Assembly Privatisation Committee itself, which, when it was established in January 2004, met every week; a dozen companies were present every week, all the problems in the privatisation process were discussed within the companies. Today, unfortunately, we are in a position to convene committees once a month. Companies, citizens, dissatisfied workers, small shareholders, are not on the Privatisation Committee, and if there are, it is once every three months. This best shows an attempt to abuse information and crime, which happens very often and which touches institutions controlled by the government through concentration and filtering of information, conceals itself. This is one of the objective reasons and the desire of the SRS to have more quality, open, more transparent government work, which would significantly improve all these transition processes in which our country is located. I think it is very reasonable and necessary that all these amendments relating to the rationalisation and work of institutions and governments themselves be accepted. I invite you to vote on this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22286	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22287	Ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentarians, according to Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, this budget is restrictive on public spending, and then his story goes that workers in public enterprises and institutions should be left out of work, that the mechanism of public enterprises is quite expensive, that it costs the state, that it affects price stability, exchange reserves, the course of the dinar. In the draft budget law, we have a press co-operation office, a item to spend 44,500,000 dinars. The question now arises to what purpose it should be spent on. First of all, this press co-operation office is the work or child of a certain Baby Popovic. So her function was during the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic what statements would be made by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, to pressure journalists and the media, what will be reported and how. Even then, you have one statement from then on by Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, a man says nicely – why journalists deal with investigative journalism when there is a Beba Popovic who will soon prepare everything they need to write. A man wondered why there are even journalists. There is the Office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Media Cooperation to write to them what should be published in the paper. It still persists on the model and needs to spend a pretty good share of the funding, and it is said, among other things, that this item should be spent on rewards and bonuses of the workers of 3,400,000 dinars. I'm very interested in how many media co-operation offices have employees, what's their salary average, who's got the highest salary, and who's gonna be rewarded from that press co-operation office? Furthermore, it should be spent 6,500,000 on some services under contract. Will these services be awarded to journalists who will publish what the Office of Media Cooperation says as a statement, or will they work directly for that office? Third thing, machines and equipment, 6,000,000 dinars. What's this press cooperation office got to do with machines and equipment? We already have an item here – constant costs. It's probably computers, equipment, etc. Could it be official cars? The question arises why the Government of the Republic of Serbia first when it comes to rationalising public consumption does not start from the direct bodies in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's he doing? I guess one of his jobs is that he's in media contact. Is it possible that the state will single out 45m dinars to call press conferences for the government of Serbia or will be spent calling conferences and cocktails after the conferences. The question arises as to what is being served by the institution called the Office for Media Cooperation. Who's he coming in front of? In front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? That's kind of funny, because the government of the Republic of Serbia seems rather divulged. They're exactly divided into holes of what they hold, which is the area of which the minister does not step away from it. There is no common policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely nothing, especially that we are not talking about that the G17 has fully taken over financial affairs in the name of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; you have a G17 Finance Minister, Mladjan Dinkic, and you have a single Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who, once again, is in charge of the area of finance and economy, Miroljub Labus, governor of the National Bank, is from the G17, president of the G17 Charter Commission, the Republic Director of the Tax Administration of the G17. The question is, then why is this office and who is it in front of? Is it in front of Vojislav Kostunica, is it in front of the SPO, is it in front of the G17? If it is not known who it comes to, then the most rational solution is that one such body, which works in the government of the Republic of Serbia, is abolished, so I believe that the National Assembly should accept this amendment in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22288	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22289	The honourable MPs, here, the minister is still gone, probably the bag is big and he's sharing something, I don't know if he's here in the National Assembly or gone out to share, although the president of the National Assembly has promised that the minister will be here during the debate on amendments. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which I suggest deletes Chapter 5.5 and Function 110 in Article 6 of Section 5. It is the EU's Office for Joining the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The total amount of funds is 49 million 300,000 dinars. In a situation where Serbian citizens are in a situation where a good part of the citizens is hungry, naked and barefoot, there is no means to heal, to abolish subsidies to businesses, agriculture, and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry does not worry about it and does not ask a question at all about wheat planting in the autumn. In no word have I heard in the means of informing that the Minister of Agriculture and the Government had dealt with the problem. The government continued what the government of Djindjic and Zivkovic started. The agency, the office, the administration, the fund, the service, the advice, the trustees, the protectors, and I don't know what names they haven't invented to form a para-state administration that needs to be parallel to the state administration. Unfortunately, instead of the government of Vojislav Kostunica dealing with an urgent reform of the state administration, although the Law on State Administration was adopted here, and that these state administrations are rational and thriftful and in the interests of the state, especially in the interest of citizens who live too hard. The EU's accession office was formed by the government of the Republic of Serbia regulation and is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 75/05, means this year. There is no minister here to ask him a question – what does the Ministry of Economic Relations do with abroad, and the defined funds for the work of this ministry are 106 million 214 thousand dinars? On the other hand, what does the Office of Serbia-Montenegro do to join the EU, for which 14 million dinars are defined in the same 2006 budget? The next question - what does the Ministry of Economic Relations do, and this is probably with the Council of Ministers, because for the following year 391 million 429 thousand dinars are allocated? Looking at all these amounts, looking at the explanation that the government rejects this amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS, it is clear that the aim is to form some para-state administrative bodies and the essence is to satisfy the interests of parties made up of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. To satisfy the interests of some interested groups that should be under the agency, offices, funds, councils, services, that employees of the para-state administration spend the funds of citizens from the Republika Srpska budget, and that citizens will not have, as they have not so far, for the naked existence. One brief explanation given in the draft budget law, that these funds will be spent on travel abroad, on seminars, which basically means spending on funds without any real, essential programme. Without the accounts and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, for which these funds have been identified and spent. The government and Minister Dinkic do not worry about the economy of the Republic of Serbia, about citizens, about the social role of the state to take over, as these so-called states have said. Experts, from the economy, that the social role should be removed from business entities and that the state should take over. Unfortunately, the proposal for this budget does not take on the social role of the state. On the contrary, it reduces citizens' rights on various grounds. When it comes to social giving, it reduces personal income or earnings to employees in the coming year, who are involved in doing jobs in education, health care and many other important segments that depend on the future of Serbia's people and citizens of Serbia. For this reason, I believe that this amendment was to be accepted by the government and I expect that when the MPs say it is a day for voting, they will accept this amendment, given that four institutions are allegedly doing the same job and are preparing us for EU accession. That accession, whether or not it will be and when we'll see it, but it won't be safe soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22290	Thank you, Mr. Four. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have repeatedly submitted amendments of similar content and have never accepted them, nor who accepts them. First the minister went to an unknown committee, and then the vice president of the assembly, all along with the president of the assembly, went in an unknown direction. So now we're all unknown. Do you have the authority to tell us if you accept the amendment? You don't. Here, women are neither guilty nor debtors here and they have to listen to what we have to say about the government, about their draft budget. There is no minister, there is no one who can say anything about this, so please, Mr. Chairman, call the National Assembly president and ask him what he thinks he's doing further, if anyone wants to accept our amendments. In fact, by accepting this amendment, we would save a lot of money spent on nothing, 49, so 50 million would be saved. It's not for the state. I don't know how much, but it's not even small. For the 50 million that could improve the situation of the poor in Serbia and how much the situation could be improved for kindergarten children, how much money could be paid for our soldiers, police officers, so at least something easier would be for them. What do we need with the EU Association Office? We have the Ministry, the government of Serbia doing this, what do we need a special office for? To make them smart? That they have to go on TV. Is there anyone in this room to come out and say what it's for? I understand the political definition, I understand everything. Tell me what it's for. What's their job? He says, machines and equipment - four million. You're just voting for it. What kind of machines and equipment are four million? What are they buying for four million? He says services under contract – 13 million. What's the deal? Who they're talking about and what they're bargaining for, then $13 million. It's not the Ministry. The Ministry can have 13 million-dollar favors, where they have 13 million. Who gives them that? Why are you giving them that? In order for that genius, head of the Association Office, to appear, if I didn't make a mistake, and I don't know her name, to tell you the truth, she showed up in the Belgrade chronicle and there's one waiting for October 6th and that's very important to us because she's a great media star, who runs the Belgrade chronicle. Since she's a top journalist, she's waiting for October 6th, and it's very important for the citizens what she thinks about it, so she invited the very head of the office to ask the head of the office:you see how Austria now stands up for Croatia, do we have friends too? You expect a rational and normal response, and she tells her – you see, Austria's side of Croatia, thus supporting the Western Balkans, meaning Serbia, that's good for us as well. I realize that a woman is not normal. There's none of you who'll say it's true. Such nonsense costs this country 49 million, not to speak from which all aspects are nonsense and what a lie it is. When you get a response like that, you wonder if it's what Serbian citizens pay for, and then you get a budget proposal and you see that you pay 49 million. It is difficult for Serbia to see what is being financed and how. Of course, tomorrow when we adopt the budget there will be a lot of objections and everyone will talk, you used to talk like this, and today you talk like that, etc. I'm sure there will be some kind of interference. But there are some things that we absolutely cannot understand – what the EU Association Office is for, and we have the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. What do we need the Ministry for? Is this the Ministry moving us to Antarctica, and these people are moving us here? Can anyone explain or what they tell us – you don't understand that, these are sophisticated jobs, different natures, you radicals don't understand that. We're a lot of stupid rats, beavers, all of us, but explain to the citizens of Serbia what this is about. Please call this minister to come here, I don't know who I'm explaining. I can't ask, they'll say -- the radicals have obstructed, from our man, so they can tell him that we did it on purpose, but call the National Assembly president to tell him to give it a break until that minister shows up. Please, you need to give 49 million for a genius to show up and say, yes, you see, as Austria lobbys for Croatia, that's great news for us too. If it wasn't for the lady, I'd say something ugly, but I can't do it like this. He says, the great news is that Austria supported Croatia, so they support us, and that's how it's always going to be for the citizens of Serbia, give it 50 million, let's skin small businessmen, privates, get their skin off their backs so it can beat the crap out of the whole nation. I have no idea what her name is, it doesn't matter. It's all possible because it's only important to find a place where money will be washed, how someone will spend it. I ask anyone in the Hall of Representatives of the ruling majority to tell us what kind of 13 million favors are under contract in that famous office or what kind of four million-million-dollar machines and equipment are they? I don't think he's in the O.R. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, when you call next, to come out a little bit and invite this National Assembly president to ask him if it's possible for a debate to be conducted in front of 50 people, and 60% of them are radicals, and there's not a dozen government representatives in this room. Look at what our congregation is reduced to. By the way, I have a question from the Democratic Party. Yesterday they said they were in the Assembly when the most important issues were, so they came when the Kosovo topic was on the agenda, and one of them said yesterday that Kosovo was not the most important topic but the economy. Here, today's the economy and they're gone. Let them agree whether Kosovo is either an economy or they've gone completely mad that even this schizophrenic policy cannot follow itself anymore. Let's go because Serbian citizens can't follow but neither can they anymore, they can't catch up with what they've said and what they've said and promised. Watch where, how, and how to save money. Tell your Dinkic when he shows up here to remove this office and transfer it to the Ministry of Economic Relations, the em will be less nonsense in public and there will be more money for Serbian citizens who will be spent in a smarter way. That's how a rational and smart government would act. If anyone in the O.R. tells me one smart move that this office has made, I'm going to go out and say, here's 50 million people's pairs that have been collected with torment "stained skin to the people," "steal the skin still." Here's the minister -- Ministers want you to remove this office that has 13 million-dollar services, and you don't know what it is, or answer us what these services are for under the contract for the EU's Association Office, when we have the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs? What kind of four million machines are these and tell us what kind of genius it is, and you know the name of the woman who's leading it, who said it, and I'll let you know, because you've had better things to do, I'm sure, from the National Assembly, to ask the press if we have people in Europe who are going to lobby for us, the head of that office says, yes, that's great news that the Austrians lobbyed for the Croats, which means they're helping the entire Western Balkans, which means they're our lobbyists, too. Where do you find such geniuses? Where do they grow? What do they eat like that for? What they feed on, that we should go and become so smart and realize that when Austria supports Croatia, it actually supports Serbia. It's not your responsibility, it's the responsibility of some other geniuses, but your responsibility is why you give money to it and why we don't spend 50 million in a different way, and we have dozens of better ways than the one mentioned. I'm sure you think so, too, and I don't know if you'll be able to say it that way, but we haven't had any use for that. Then terminate the Ministry of Economic Relations from abroad, if you are unable to end this. I expect the minister's answer and I hope that you, Mr. Minister, will be present until the end of the debate on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22292	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. I absolutely agree with you that the minister must be in the O.R. when the agenda is a point such as the budget law. With the President of the National Assembly, I will see how we will and will ever work in the absence of a minister on this, but also on any other point. Minister Mladjan Dinkic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22293	I've been in the Assembly the whole time, only I haven't been in the O.R. for a while. On the other hand, of course the budget law is the most important document. It's not easy being in two places at the same time. Today, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities also scheduled a debate on its transfer funds for local self-government. They've been looking for the minister's presence several times, and I don't know where I'll be sooner. If I don't go to that session of the Standing Conference of Cities, it's going to call me why I didn't come there, that the central government isn't taking care of the place, and if I'm not here, you're going to call me why I'm not at the amendment debate. It's very hard to be in two places at the same time. But I agree that the debate on the budget is central and that the Assembly is a central institution and that it should pay attention here, by pointing out again, that I was in the Assembly all the time, but in the meetings of clubs and committees. As for the EU's Association Office, different countries had different concepts as they addressed the problem administratively. Some countries have established a special ministry dealing with European integration. We felt it was more rational to have an EU Association Office than the ministry, because the purpose of the office, on the one hand, is to coordinate the activities of all ministries on issues that are important for joining the EU. And that is, above all, the adoption of new legal solutions, in order to bring them into line with EU legislation and that this is a more comprehensive solution and in most EU-access countries, it has proved to be more effective. I don't think the costs of this office are that high compared to the importance she has in this process. However, I agree that further rationalisation of the ministries could be done. In that part, I fully agree with you. The Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs does not exist almost in any European Union country and the fact that the Ministry of Economic Relations is working with abroad should be divided into two parts: one part concerning foreign trade, which should be part of the Ministry of Trade, and another part relating to the economy, which could be part of the Ministry of Economy. So in that part, I'm sure there's still room for rationalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22294	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. This economic classification in the draft budget refers to the amount of 77,402.700,000 dinars, which are the funds provided for the transfer of the Republic Fund to PIO employees. With this amendment, I ask that the amount of "77,402,700,000" dinars be replaced by "87,402,700,000" dinars, i.e. to increase by 10 billion dinars, which will directly contribute to improving pensioner standards in Serbia. Today we are witnessing that the government is trying to make the laws it recently brought to a certain extent to correct the pensions of its users, of course, to their harm, not taking into account the increase in the cost of life, inflation, unemployment and the fact that many families in Serbia are the only source of income in the house. It is therefore necessary to increase these funds to at least mitigate the difficult situation of pensioners in Serbia. On the other hand, the IMF's moving ahead of time. Over a million pensioners and people with disabilities, both the government and Minister Dinkic, suffer the most. The increased cost of treatment, and among the patients, is mostly pensioners, and this is a need for greater allocation of funds for the Republic Fund PIO. Pensioners and disabled people will spend their pension money mainly in Serbia, and it will return to the country in some way again through tax flows. As a result, the minister could already define funds to a number of agencies and directorates that are too high and unnecessary, rerouting them to the PIO staff fund. Some finance minister intended for Serbia's president to reduce the amount spent by the party's DS exposition, known as the National Office with Director Gilas headed, otherwise a representative or representative, as I regularly boasted of numerous companies in Serbia. Such unfavorable people's money is being wasted. Take, for example, environmental protection. In this area we have, first of all, the Environmental Protection Agency, which is normal, but next to it we have the Environmental Protection Agency, we have the Recycling Agency, we have two agencies. Do you even know if a recycling project has started in Serbia? Just to mention, we in Serbia don't even have a recycling law, but that's why we have the Agency and it, as such, spends budget bonds. That is how other agencies formed by today’s government have loaded an even greater number of budget beneficiaries on the back of the people. You in the Ministry must find a way to add funds of 10 billion dinars that can be provided by eliminating unnecessary budget users to this economic classification and to make the final amount 87,402,700,000 dinars, and to the benefit of PIO employees. I'd like to remind you for the second time of that story from the village of Glogovec near Jagodina, and it concerns a pensioner who had been keeping her daughter-in-law for almost half a year so they could live off her pension. It is proof of the misery of the government in the Republic of Serbia. At least do something for the pensioners, even with this increase in funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22296	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22297	Let me just say about the pensioners, since I've seen that there are doubts in the press about paying off this debt to the pensioners. The finance ministry sent a letter to the pension fund of employees yesterday, where it is, in fact, requiring payment of the first debt payment in December, along with a pension received before the New Year's, in December, 20th and someone, which is already a regular order, so that pensioners will also receive full pension for November, as it began to pay in the current month for the year and plus one quarter of their pension. So depending on how much they receive, one quarter will be an addition to this regular pension. Four billion dinars are totaled for these purposes, and that's when we start paying back that old debt. It was by the Law on Turning Debt into Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia in some way regulated. This year, we have a real pension growth of about 5%, with a nominal pension increase of 10.6% in the last two months due to the raise in pensions after cleaning up pensions and turning into public debt. I want to say, therefore, that pensioners will receive a full pension in December for November, plus another quarter of their pension, and four billion dinars for it are allocated and will be paid in cash and not in bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22298	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has refused to accept this amendment, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS, MP Radisa Ilic. The minister said in his appearance 20 minutes ago it was difficult to be in two places. I remembered that story from Friday, Mr. Minister, when you were visiting Branič County, among other things, the municipality of Golubac, you were opening a sports hall, and I don't know what it was you owed to the municipality of Golubac to invite you, especially if you weren't in power there, and there's a certain oligarchy around it. The president of the municipality is from the DS, there was probably some transfer of funds to that local self-government, I guess. Mr. Minister, before you decide to define to some local self-government some of the funds you're going to give from the budget reserve first check how it works and how it spends that local self-government money. I'll tell you, they spent a million dinars waiting for the Crown Prince. So, a million dinars to come by some false prince, to take a walk on the Danube pier, to organize some sort of cavalry game, and that's why it's spent maybe a few thousand less than a million dinars, Mr. Minister. I know that in September of the month you were at the Ljubicev Horse Games in Pogorevec, not You, was Miroljub Labus, ask him what it looks like, and only a million and 200 thousand were spent, and it was at that event about 40,000–50,000 people. So it was a reward fund, etc. I don't want to talk about it. At a much larger event, looking at the head of the population, much less money was spent. Note that these are some events that last 43 years, cultural, historical, tourist etc. I understand that the municipality of Golubac wants to become a tourist attraction, but this sports hall that you opened, before opening you in an election campaign for the president of the municipality in 2004, a certain one, Mr Ljubisa Misic. A week ago, the same sports hall was opened by the Polish ambassador, so you could do it on Friday, Mr. Minister. There's just one more thing to tell you that money's been spent. Some members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards in public enterprises and institutions are on military service, so they are paid an official trip abroad. The question arises whether the military authorities knew they were traveling abroad, and I called the president of the municipality a thief from this pay phone. Now I'm going to tell you why. As far as I can tell, the purchase of six million dinars doesn't belong to low-value purchases. Mr. President of the municipality took the right to define himself in the amount of 6 million dinars of funds for the construction of the general urban plan of the municipality of Golubac, without tendering, without advertising public procurement, without collecting offers. That's what it looks like when you finance a criminal group in that community. Are we gonna talk about this any further? One part of the significant funds of the Golubac municipality receives from the Danube rent, i.e. for the land that was submerged when the dam was lifted on Gerdap. It is now some amount of 7 million dinars, according to the law that was in force at the time, and now it is valid, that money should be directed into those areas that are flooded. The dinar is not aimed at these areas, but is once again focused on official travel abroad, on some bahanalia of the president of the municipality, etc. So when the time comes for some account to come out, then what the Republic, by some miracle, does in that municipality of Golubac, appears that same president of the municipality, from the DS, and says, well, the municipality of Golubac, has paved the way for the Republic. That's how it works in local self-governments where DS is in power. So, the Danube rent of 7 million dinars is being spent again on some official journey, so as long as the DS is in government in the municipality of Golubac, whatever you give them, that you know that it will not be invested in local infrastructure for the benefit of the citizens of the municipality of Golubac, but only in the murky actions of money laundering through the councils of local communities, which are re-examining the statutes of SO, past the statutes of these local communities, in order to make money through some false directorship and through the advice of the local communities simply define itself on that side to bypass the law on public procurement. There is a constant theft in the territory of the municipality of Dovebac. I'm just going to tell you that a million dinars have been spent for the reconstruction of the House of Culture. Let's see, that joke is about two or three times smaller than this one here in the Serbian Parliament. Let's ask what it would cost here to get this room turned, fixed, etc. No more than 100,000 dinars, they spent millions of dinars again, etc. One more thing, that you're the party's fund-raiser G17, be in election campaigns. Being in G17, be at party meetings, meetings of municipal committees, local committees or whatever you have. But, Mr. Minister, don't be a G17 official when you're a minister, when you go to the villages in the municipality of Golubac, promising to help the citizens of that municipality, but with a mandatory question – don't make one of them a member of the SRS. Just to remind you, Mr. Minister, that the SRS has over 8 or 9% of its members compared to the number of voters. That's pretty much what you're not gonna get to in 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22300	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22301	On Friday, I was in Braničen County as the finance minister of the Republic of Serbia and visited the municipalities of Golubac, Velika Gradište and Malo Crnić. As for the municipality of Golubac, you yourself said that the president of the municipality, whom the citizens elected in the elections, is not from the party to which I belong. There are both DS and DSS, SPO and G17 plus. However, I was also in Mali Crnić, where the president of the municipality of Mr. from the Citizens Group is a completely impartial figure. I'm not making a difference between the municipalities, I'm going where they call me and where they can be helped. In particular, our goal is to help smaller municipalities, which cannot finance development through their own means. Why did they call me? Probably because this year the Republic Government has invested the appropriate funding from the Sports Authority for the completion of their sports hall. I didn't open any sports halls there, I just attended one of their ceremonys to finish the parquet work in that beautiful facility. We promised them that, like all other municipalities, they would compete with the Sports Authority and next year, so that they could provide additional heating for the gym and locker rooms. The same goes for all other local self-governments in Serbia. Now it's time for them to create facilities and compete with the Sports Authority, because you saw that in the budget for this year we have significant funds for investments in sports infrastructure, twice as much as we had this year. About two billion dinars we have to allocate for sport this year, and precisely thanks to Mr. Shostar's efforts, Minister Vuksanovic and my own personal, a large part of these funds will go to sports administrations. So for sports facilities at the bar, since sports facilities in large cities can be built from other sources. The exception is the obituaries for the preparation of the 2009 university. In addition, in the municipality of Golubac, the Ministry of Capital Investments, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has built a network of local roads and will continue to build next year. As for the other municipalities we visited, it certainly is a region in which it has not been invested long enough. We intend to invest far more in eastern Serbia, as well as in Southeast Serbia, because these are regions where the market cannot only allow adequate economic development, but we need investments from the republican budget. That is why the new Regional Development Act is also being prepared, which will allow for a more even development of our Republic in the future. So, I always go to these visits as finance minister, except when I have party meetings, but they're separated from these visits. For example, I wasn't visiting the municipality of Pogorec, but I held a party meeting there, and I didn't appear in other places in public. As far as this is concerned, certainly all small municipalities need to be helped to improve their lives, and that is why we have allocated funds for sports facilities, in particular we have had talks on the development of tourism in the area, because the Danube is a great opportunity for the entire region of eastern Serbia. As a result, we have 2.5 times more resources separately for the development of tourism in the following year, with 500 million dinars separated for infrastructure. As you have seen in the draft budget of the Kučev Mountains region is also marked as an investment area, and that includes more municipalities, not just these municipalities that you were talking about, but all these coastal municipalities. Unfortunately, the rate of natural growth in eastern Serbia has been very low for years. A lot of people are already going abroad, they're even being written out of citizenship, and we, as a government, have to carry out active measures to improve the birth rate, so that young people stay there. That's not just East Serbia. This is the most relevant for southern Serbia, these are the two most vulnerable areas and therefore we have to invest far more resources in these municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22302	Replica, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22303	Mr. Minister, I don't expect you to know where certain paths in the municipality of Golubac are paved, but don't believe everything they tell you. First of all, I know this community very well. Both my father and mother are from that community. I don't know if he's ever been paved up. There was once a partial asphalting of a five-mile section. That's what the president of the municipality boasted. You didn't tell this speaker what you were going to do because of your disrespect for the Public Procurement Act. Will you send a budget inspection to that municipality? I'd like to see what that looks like. You said there was a G17 plus in power. Furthermore, you said that the funds allocated to the 2006 budget will especially be in this part of the Kuca Mountains, so I am now interested in which municipalities are specific, because there are municipalities where the SRS is in power, such as the municipality of Kučevo. They did not receive any large funds for the development of their travel infrastructure this year from the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I am interested in your relationship with the municipality. As far as the Municipality of Mali Crnića is concerned, there is the same SRS in power, but that is not the point. I am interested in whether it is worth investing in a local self-government without the supervision of the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially since the local self-government is extremely arrogant about these funds. No matter how much you give them, they're getting few, and the results that are going to benefit the citizens are gone. That's what this is about. The municipality, as it is, has been avoided funds from the Danube rent to be passed on on various grounds. Now it's starting to pay more regularly. Here, we don't know where seven million dinars were spent. No one knows where it's spent, and they need to be invested in a section of the municipality that's been submerged. Let me ask you one more time, what about that six million. The municipality of Golubac has 62-63 million dinars per the final budget rebalancing. It was intended to be 67 or 69. Investments have been reduced in rebalancing, with increased costs for representations, official travel and cultural events. Think about what it's like to give one of those municipalities money.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22304	National MP Branislav Stevanovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22305	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to take advantage of Mr. Secretary's presence and ask a few questions. When we just touched the theme of sports, as a longtime athlete and coach of younger categories, I would recommend that if possible, it be allocated to the Sports Authority a little more resources, you said about infrastructure, meaning building some sports facilities. I'll give you an example. In Lazarevec we have a large number of sports facilities, certainly in Serbia the best football courts, above all. You know that "Collabara" sponsored it all in happy times. Unfortunately, these sports facilities may only be used by half of our children, so it would be necessary, since you've already had a meeting with local self-government, to keep in mind that investments for local self-government and extracurricular means, above all, amateur sports. Why do I say that? The biggest reason is because we have a large amount of drug-expanded drugs in Serbia. I think it's one of the best ways to combat drug abuse in Serbia. I would ask you, on behalf of all athletes in Serbia, to pay particular attention to this topic. I would like to say that all MPs in parliament received a request from independent journalists' trade unions under the Privatisation Act, the Radio Diffusion Act and other laws that have been harmonised, where local media privatisation is planned in 2006, and we know that these are the founders of local self-government, so there should be greater funds for local self-government. The Ministry of Labour and Employment to pay attention, because during these 18 months I met, unfortunately, people who have lost their jobs in many businesses. Now it's also planned for these local media, so it would be very comprehensive to allocate larger funds. I would also ask the question – the difference in excise duties from the production of domestic cigarettes and is foreign 10 times. Where's the money going? Unfortunately, it must be acknowledged, we will lose one budget by 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22306	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22307	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 6. The bill, submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, reads: ''Article 6. Section 7, Function 180, in economic classification 463, the amount 55,375,000 is replaced by 69,955,2122,000 and the amount 15,400,000 thousand is replaced by 16,113,020,000''. The amendment proposed that the amount of 713,020,000, intended for the co-ordination body of the federal government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, be deleted and the funds directed to the military. The amendment was denied. The amendment has been said to be rejected for reasons of Article 26(3). The budget system law found that the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditure by the same amount. When it comes to the military, it is pointed out that for the Ministry of Defence, or the SCG Army, it is in accordance with Article 18. The constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, within the framework of transfer funds for the exercise of trusted competences and additional jobs, envisions 46 billion 990 million dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is 2.5% of gross domestic product and is more than the average separation in countries in the environment, which is 2.5% of the proposed amendment, we wanted to reroute the funds, which are intended for the co-ordination body of the Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the amount of 713.020,000, to the military. These funds are needed to improve the material position of the military. We believe that the funds that come, according to the budget, through the Coordination Body for these three municipalities in southern Serbia, are not being channelled in an adequate manner. I can give you an example, since I come from the Bujanovac municipality, to tell you that these funds are being spent unintendedly. We have an example of where 2,250,000 dinars were allocated for asphalting some time in 2003. That money is still standing on some giro accounts, and the road is not yet starting to build. I can tell you that certain members of the Resistance paid hotel accommodations from the account of the Coordination Body. These are some former members of the Resistance. We also have the latest example of the transfer of President of Presevo Municipality, Rize Halimi, where one of the reasons for his impeachment and non-intentional spending of money from the co-ordination body. These funds shall not be allocated on purpose. That's why we're asking for those funds to be directed to the military.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22308	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic knows that certain psychological and political pressures have been made by the IMF in the construction of the 2006 budget. Although two pairs of excellence have been put in place, they say, issues for you in the 2006 budget projection, which is the payment of debt to pensioners, which you have worked very hard with in your very poor negotiating position and role, not only for your own, but for the entire government, which in front of those international financial institutions and certain factors, as you say, international communities, does not come with the weight of your credibility, because you are collapsing from the inside, and if the second issue is the reduction of public spending, the IMF did not hit you with pucks when it comes to the Serbia-Montenegro Army. So, your personal decision, or decision by your ministry, Kostunica, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is how you will treat the Yugoslav Army and what counterpart Nenad Mitrovica said in the context of the amendment of the SRS MP Ljubomir Kragovic, not that it is only one part of that devastating relationship you have with the military, but it is indeed one trace of the events that started since 2000. Serbia-Montenegro's army began systematically destroying the arrival of Boris Tadic as military minister. Is that right? Yes, it's true. That's what everyone in this hall knows, and these yellow ones who don't come to the assembly sessions know that, because directly they as ministerial assistants, that notorious Goran Vesic and Sutanovac were in charge with Boris Tadic to do so with the Yugoslav Army. Afterwards, the Shutanovac took an severance payment, which is the amount of 26 salaries, and they don't care. Now for you, Mr. Dinkic, the question of military affairs, or so on. military affairs that have been going on for the past few months. According to the system, "the earthquake was born of a mouse" and the shift of former military minister and the appointment of this Zoran Stankovic, a close associate of Carla Del Ponte and The Hague tribunal. I don't know what TV you didn't show up on, where you didn't take your picture and what it was about. In this regard, it is yet to be proved by the competent state authorities, the alleged abuse, or bribe of 28,000 dinars. When it comes to the compensation of a member of the board of directors, MPs from the ruling structure, the Serbian public must know that it is at an annual level at several hundred thousand dinars. You're gonna say it's legal. Even if it were so, the whole affair was raised because of the nights in the hotel, the replacement of the lifts, the oil on the engine. What happened next to the affair? Changed Davinić, or brought in another, is not known who is worse than who, the army in an increasingly difficult and worse position. To go from barracks to barracks to see or to be told by people who have sons of soldiers here in the Army of Serbia and Montenegro in what conditions these soldiers are and in what position our defence forces and officers are in. Unsolved housing issues, what their salaries are, what soldiers eat, and not to mention total degradation as regards the state government's relationship with the military as an institution and to accept everything that goes into the context of a famous partnership for peace. If you have a mechanism to act as a minister to move certain funds, that is to listen to what he said, Mr. Vukic, when it comes to the Coordination Centre and these three southern Serb municipalities. If you attend committee meetings as a minister, especially when it comes to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, then the Finance Committee, I don't know if you've considered how these funds have been spent. You'll see that direct users, citizens who live there, have none of this money. So the sevap would be if it had already been done so much evil to the Yugoslav Army that the funds were being rerouted to improve the material position. A lot more of the state should do. It takes hundreds of billions of dinars, first of all to provide for people living, for soldiers to have good conditions, because if we bring the state into such a state that the defence forces, or combat lives, and all that is vitally important to a country, you knock it down to a minimum, what does the state want us to do, and where we actually live. The DOS government's goal, which indeed led Serbia through the national sunflower, was to completely devalue the role of the military, soldiers, officers and generals who defended the interests of the state and the people. Especially during NATO aggression to protect vital national and national interests. The list for The Hague's gathering centre for Serbs, the persecution of people, the shift of generals, for an hour or two gets people's solutions to retire, all of which are apparently the entire Serbian public and honest officers and soldiers who stood up for the army, who see what is done, and their parents who cannot understand that Serbia and the Serb people (who, through the centuries of our enemies after the end of the wars, received praise for the heroic conduct and for the high morality of our officers and soldiers) today fall upon these branches and that something like this is done. Listen to what we have suggested, i.e. my colleague Ljubomir Kragovic. If you won't just continue with the same path that Boris Tadic started as military minister and he has an even worse relationship with Serbia-Montenegro as president of the Republic today. Not only him, but the whole circle of his associates, not to mention them now. You know, Mr. Vukic said that, it's not a precedent, it's something terrible, that on one official visit one of his associates stayed in an official visit to the Russian Federation, when he was reportedly sick, he asked to go to the American Embassy. We would not be surprised if Boris Tadic from today until the end of his term, (I hope he will be shorter than the period he was elected to) from day to day, and more and more advocates that the army, soldiers and officers be completely humiliated. In order at least to mitigate the extremely difficult material position of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, you need to accept this amendment. Fabricating affairs and condemning without the decision of the competent state authorities, harassing the public in any way, introducing confusion and creating one general uncertainty among citizens and degradation of institutions in which citizens have had the most trust in back years, does not lead to anything, and in particular it is not good at this moment and in this situation in which Serbia is present, especially after yesterday's adoption of the resolution and all that is ahead of us, in front of the people as a challenge and as a difficult issue that will have to be addressed in the coming months.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22310	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22311	As far as the situation in the military is concerned, allow me, when the issue has already been raised, a few more details. Namely, there were more reasons for Minister Davinic's shift, several key ones. First, budget control, then began, in the second quarter of this year's control of the ministry's budget, established a non-intentional spending of 800 million dinars. One part of the funds, for example. which was intended for healthcare in Vojsca was transferred, completely against the Law on the Budgetary System, to pay off military pensions in Montenegro. So the funds coming from the Serbian budget and allocated to the Military Insurance Health Fund have been transferred to Montenegro for the payment of military pensions, because Montenegro obviously did not make enough contributions in the general budget of the state community. Secondly, after the first budgetary control, you know what happened to the Council of Ministers' intention and decision to charge the Republic of Serbia's budget of about 300m euros over the next five years. Serbia's government has prevented this by forceful measures. The budget inspection found that these two contracts, which have already been completed, of 176m euros, prices and amounts "bloated" were at least 40%. Thus, the budget could have been damaged by around 80m euros. Criminal charges were filed not only against Minister Davinic, but against a whole series of people who were in the direct chain of management and we now expect the competent judicial authorities to respond adequately. Otherwise, the report was even a month ago, an updated report, submitted to the Serbian Parliament's Finance Committee. I am waiting for the president of the Committee or an authorised representative to call me and I will be happy to speak to the MPs about the details of the latest report of the budgetary inspection related to the Ministry of Defence. I agree that Minister Davinic's shift alone should not mean the end of this process. We at the Ministry of Finance have done our full part of the job. We believe that there has really been a violation of the law by several officials of the Ministry of Defence, and therefore we have filed appropriate criminal charges that are now with the judiciary. You also know that today is a hearing about certain doubts about the abuses of certain apartments. You've heard of this problem yourself that we've pointed to before about satellite rentals. I think it's the Cardinal's work for a simple reason, which from the documentation that we're seeing, it turns out that the Ministry of Defense, or the former minister, has concluded, has given authority to a company from the British and Virgin Islands to negotiate the rent of satellites. When it came to light, both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance were informed. We gave the order to completely suspend those negotiations. We do not know now, in fact, what is finally signed, and what is certain is that the government has not given any consent to this lease and that legal experts are now questioning whether what Davinic signed has any legal fact. So it's not about a fake affair, it's about bad and illegal management at the Ministry of Defense. That was the reason Mr Davinić, before many of these things fell apart, was excluded from the party G17 plus. I admitted that it was a mistake to appoint him as Secretary of Defense, and now, as things unwind, I can only see what it was all about, far more than what I even knew when I started that whole initiative. Of course, it wasn't easy for me either, for the simple reason that every one of my public warnings that there were problems in the financial functioning of the army by those who apparently participated in these abuses was interpreted as attacking the military and its members. That's why we had a lot of trouble trying to put the Department of Defense's account where it belongs, in the consolidated account of the Treasury. We've been attacked to want to leave soldiers without food. You know for a fact that the budget inspection has found that the huge debt the military has towards suppliers is paid over the order and that there are all kinds of things. It is not simple and it will not be easy for Minister Stankovic to put order into military finance, given the state of play. However, we had an operational meeting last week. As you know, we've raised the salary on average 12%, and 24% for officers and those civilians who are highly trained. We've allocated three times as much material equipment to the army in the following year, but we expect the army to make order of priorities, to get protective equipment for the Homeland Security Zone, whether that's two and a half thousand sets, not 70,000, as was the previous case. Of course, there's no dispute here over a 27, 28 thousand-dollar bribe. As you know, this is a 176m-euro number contract. It remains to be seen what the judicial authorities of all this will ultimately bring. I'd also prefer it to work more efficiently, to work faster and to process these objects as quickly as possible. I would like to say that in the Government, it takes the view that in the future process of selling surplus military assets, in order not to even recapitulate these situations, the key role must be taken over by the Republic Property Directorate, in order for these processes to be carried out quickly and publicly, in a transparent manner. So, once again, in the 2006 budget, we envisioned an army of 2.5% of gross domestic products, and these are expenditures at the level of other countries in the region for defence, especially given that our country's perspective is to join the Partnership for Peace. In the end, I would like to say, the Ministry of Finance supports Minister Stankovic's initiative to carry out military professionalisation as soon as possible, i.e. to lift the mandatory military deadline. Whether it's possible to do it in a year or not, I can't say it now. Certainly, we, along with the Ministry of Defence, will seek ways to find the means to professionalise the military as soon as possible, that our country is defended by professional soldiers and that those who do not care simply do not have the obligation to serve the military term. We have to make assumptions about moving on to a professional army. There will be more separations, and we will be ready to support such an initiative. This isn't about a fake affair, it's about huge abuses. Of course, the judiciary has to give the final word and we expect it to do so. When I spoke three or four years ago in a banking segment, we have a problem with the judiciary, because at the time I was dealing with the area, as governor of the NBS, I was criticised by our association of judges and the Association of Lawyers. Today, however, the worst estimates in relative comparison to other judicial branches are not just said by someone on the domestic scene. The EU said in its report that Serbia's biggest problem at the moment is the judges. So not all the judges, part of the judges, not the full judiciary, but part of the judiciary. It's our biggest problem, and it has to be done most in the next period. Someone mentioned the judges of the trade court today. You know we created the judiciary a few years ago as an independent branch, which is necessary, because the judiciary has to be independent. The problem is that the judges in these courts are independent of their profession and morals, some of them. They're impossible to change unless you here in the National Assembly change them. The EU notes that we must go far more radically into reforming the judicial system. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank also found this in its report. So now international institutions are talking about it, and I think that the necessary consensus is slowly being created that will allow some parts of the legal system to be improved, because we have good laws, they are not controversial, but we have a part of the judge who obviously does not apply these laws in an adequate way, is not the whole judiciary, certainly, but a part of the judiciary, however, because of that part of the judiciary and if it works badly, a bad and negative effect on the defence in general is created. I suppose it is also in the interest of the people in the judiciary to fix these bad segments in their system, in order to allow our country to get closer and closer to the EU and, finally, to make the citizens feel justice. In this case, this case is huge around the Department of Defense. I say again, if the MPs want details, I am in the mood the moment the Committee invites me to present these details, because in writing I already delivered them to the Committee a month ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22312	Thank you. Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22313	I must remind you, Minister Dinkic, that Prvoslav Davinić is from your organization. (Mladjan Dinkic, with target: Bio. Listen up, you know, the thief's a thief. He who is a potential criminal has his roots, one way the cradle swings him to be a hohstappler, a fraud. Well, find someone like that in the SRS. There isn't. They're all honest and high moral people. What hundreds of millions of euros you're talking about, people couldn't imagine it in their lives. And you're right when you say he's a criminal and he's committed abuse, but he came from your Corps. This Zoran Stankovic, who you say will perform military professionalization, was brought in, I told you, as a close associate of Carla del Ponte. He expressed the enemy of the Serbian people, committed numerous abuses as VMA director and you boast and proud of him and say, he will save us and our army. Who does he save? He did everything as VMA's director to crush on the lowest possible branches. All that he did, first as a protected, and then an open witness in the process that leads to the evil Hague tribunal against our heroes, primarily an army officer, to put in the service of Carla del Ponte, the enemy and those who want to declare our entire people genocide, to take away our right to the brightest pages of history, when we have defended ourselves from the attacks and never sought anything, in such a way. As for your role, Mr. Minister, and what you've linked to the judicial authorities and the assessment that our judiciary is today, not that it's not independent, it's a disaster. The crisis headquarters in the Trade Court and today is the same vis-à-vis the President of the Trade Court, Goran Kljajevic, known for his greatest abuses and affairs. I don't know if you're familiar with it, then you were governor of NBJ, and then the NBS, did you hear about the Mercedes Benz affair? Do you know that Kljajevic is involved in the affair with former Assistant Minister Nenad Milic, with a certain Biljana Radovanovic, who is still the prosecutor of the Fourth Municipal Court? I must warn you about the future, but not just you, but any minister from the government, and the MPs, I suppose, know that – when the Police Act was on the agenda, Verica Radete's amendment to Article 5 was adopted. The law. You know what that member of this new law says, because Jocic told us that this is necessary in police reform and that all this is codified – an amendment has been adopted by which a colleague asked that no one from the MUP on a possible indictment proposal, criminal application or processing, and not processing, as you say incorrectly, not giving any information, let alone to make judgments and say this one is guilty, and this one is not. All the Presidents of the Court, the Judges who are from place V.D. Some rubber factories from Surdulica or I don't know where they came from for a judge, so for the President of the Court during Dossovna, they're still in those positions. That's terrible. What an independent judiciary. See how many are only notions and accusations of abuses being committed, what kind of people are elected to these functions. When you took advantage of the whole situation of your reckoning, indeed, with only one of the criminals in your ranks, Prvoslav Davinić, you should have informed yourself a little better, Mr. Minister. A lovely lady and an honorable wife and mother, Mrs. Dragica Nikolic, has nothing to do with Milet Dragic. When you had confused pots and connected to the official invitation of the Cuban Embassy, or the Republic of Cuba, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, you had to ask for a little better translation or to educate you, not to associate today with the most popular politician in Serbia and to misread that instead of his wife Dragic had travelled for a month. You've had this look like a hole, as a colleague of the Treasures would say, in time and space, to misstate the whole situation and thus come out in public. Rapidness and making statements that don't suit the minister and the way you've all done it, can't possibly contribute to any rating party that you belong to going to some higher level anyway. You've only proven once again that you're using abuses, manipulations, and when it suits you to do jobs and to stamp your closest associates this morning. And this Stankovic, that's for sure, time will show, is something that could have happened in this position of the SCG Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22314	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović. On what basis, Mr. Zivadinovic? About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22315	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I could very much agree with Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic. It is true that there are major problems in the judiciary as well. It is true that there are also problems in financing the SCG Army. I agree with you, ma'am, and in criticism of the work of the former minister, now the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic. Many problems in the army have been inherited since your time. Tadic was not ready to fight those problems and, of course, left this authority to do it. The man we've delegated to that place, unfortunately, is not "wrecked in the cradle" G17 plus, as you said. He went through the G17 plus spring, came in last year and took off faster than he got in. I can tell you that the first of the members of the Executive Board voted for his exclusion, because I knew what kind of man he was, and I knew what he was doing at the Department of Defense. Of course, that man didn't do the job he was sent there for and that people from G17 plus, as responsible people, first pointed their fingers at him, brought out all the data on these malfeasances and that, besides that person, no one else from G17 plus can connect with any criminal acts. I agree, Mrs Jovanovic, that the SCG Army budget is currently insufficient. But we should keep in mind that the SCG Army, at least in the coming year, is certainly not going to lead the war, and I hope not in the future. As a national MP and as a military official of the same army and a reserve officer of the army, we also have the opinion of the Venice Commission that the referendum is likely to take place in Montenegro next year. I sincerely hope, and we from G17 plus, that the referendum in Montenegro will succeed and that the SCG Army will experience one transformation and will be Serbia's army. As Serbia currently allocates about 700m euros to a state that does not exist at all, the virtual organisation will not be a burden to us next year. The officers and soldiers of the future army, the army of Serbia, will have much more resources, not only for food, but also for technical means, that people now in southern Serbia will have much better salaries and technical resources and that they will be able to protect our people below. When the negotiations on Kosovo are completed and under Resolution 1244, our soldiers and officers will join a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and will be able to carry out their constitutional and legal duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22316	Thank you. Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22317	A fellow MP said and distanced himself from this crime corps, Prvoslav Davinic, but it is from the Separatist crime corpus Milo Djukanovic. Shock after the shock for Serbia's public, since yesterday. My colleague, hold on a second, because such as you will have one or two more opportunities to say and it is over, just as Milo will go, so will you, and you are gone, as Mr. Vukic says – not on the postcard. If the citizens of Serbia heard such statements from Miroljub Labus, who, by the way, gave none of you the opportunity to write anything, he came out and said, of course, he's your boss, I'm the only one who's going to speak by the chief's system and it's over, there's no one after me. But such statements, such enforcings, such projections of the future, you better not have heard from a colleague. All that you wanted to say positively in the context of the future better position of the SCG Army, your pledge to separate Serbia from Montenegro, or your belief that the separatist referendum, supported by Western forces, which may still support or not, we will see Milo Djukanovic and his criminal leadership, is truly devastating for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is your legitimate right, either as a party or as an MP, to have such an option, but it is devastating for the citizens of Serbia. You are still saying that the day after the adoption of the resolution on the mandate for the Serbian government's talks, whose vice-president Miroljub Labus is and you advocate the separatism and breaking of Serbia-Montenegro the day after the adoption of the resolution, under which talks on the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija should be conducted. It's really scary, and I don't know what more a man would have to tell you and how to react to anyone from here who voted with the best intention yesterday for that resolution, and as far as I saw it, you pushed that green button. The whole story of you and Miroljub Labus and the future projection, you know, about the Euro-region is spoken of by Bogoljub Karic and the whole corps around him, you about the separation, that is, the breaking up of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, but you can be sure that the people of Serbia are deeply aware of both Serbia and Montenegro, especially the one who had the strength and will, and when it is the most difficult and when the pressures are being made, when they are left without work, when they are being persecuted, that on the last year's list they are declared to be more than 30% of the Serb people. Be assured that the SRS will do everything on its own, and you know that in all the additional elections held in Montenegro so far, we are a parliamentary party and that the growing trust of the citizens of Montenegro, i.e. the Serbs, who live in that Serb republic, is in us and we will do everything possible to survive the state union of Serbia-Montenegro that has functioned through the centuries. Your right and your commitment, not only is it devastating for the Serbian people, but it is an option that is generally unacceptable and you will see in future elections that will make you pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22318	The word is made by MP Ivan Zivadinović in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22319	Articles 103 and 104. Mrs. Jovanovic, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to comment on something. You put me on a team with Milo Djukanovic, where I didn't. I am MP G17 plus, MP from Užic, and what interests me is the policy of my region, my region and this country. We from G17 plus will never deal with politics in Montenegro, Macedonia, Bosnia, whether a referendum for the Constitution in France has failed, what you do, where Žirinovski is, where Saddam is, where there is another team. What interests us is the interests of Serbian citizens and we have done so far and we will do so in the future. Of course, these two years since we've been in power, they've been troublesome because we have to patch up the many holes we've left in the last period, but about the most we've patched you up, the rest are smaller, the flow of the blow, but we know where we're going. We are heading towards the European Union and the European Union is the only country that will allow all Serbs to live in the same country. Of course, since the state fell apart in 1991, and neither did we, unfortunately, have all the Serbs in one country, the European Union is the only place where we can solve this national problem. If you have any other attitudes, no problem. We respect political opponents. This is the policy we represent. We will not stand down from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22320	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot of things from the pay phone in the last few days. One says, only on the most important issues and most important topics we return to the Assembly, I will only come to a meeting on Kosovo. He comes out for this pay phone and says -- it's not the most important topic for us, but it's the most important topic for us to have an economy. There are no economic laws on the agenda in the Assembly. Then comes a man who says I don't care what happens in Montenegro. It's your country. Serbia-Montenegro is called the country you live in, man, if someone hasn't informed you. He says -- he's interested in Uzice and his region, but he doesn't want to think about what's going on in Bosnia. You have a sign there that says Visegrad, a few dozen miles away, the same people who live like the people you belong to, you should be ashamed, you don't care about this or that. I don't want to get involved, and I don't want to watch what's going on. You should be ashamed because the same people live and there's no difference. It can't be a replica, it's a replica. At least learn something. You who break this country in every way talk about how they should be treated, I'm interested in Užice, the region, what I care about Bosnia, and there's Republika Srpska, and you don't care about that either, and that's not what you're interested in. What do you want to know then: public procurement, tenders, banks, what do you want to know? Is there anything without public procurement, banks and tenders that you're interested in? Look, it's so nice to have a referendum on the sidelines. Oh, come on! And what is the difference between the Serbians from Pljevlja and the Serbians from Prijepolje, what, do you know, except Tito made that border? Exactly someone said -- the worst Titos communists, but not real communists, not honest communists, but the Titos have become the worst EU-moonists today, and tomorrow when China is the world's main force or another, then you'll be Chinese, whatever. Just to be with the greatest force in the world, just to make you someone and something to participate in public procurement, tenders, banks and everything else. That's all you're interested in. I know you are much more interested in this, but for the citizens of Užica and the people of Užica who are interested in Republika Srpska, who are interested in Montenegro, it is not good for you to represent them and speak in such a way in this House. Ask Muslims, what is the difference between Muslims from Prijelje and Pljelja? She's gone. What is the difference between Serbs from Herzeg Novi and Serbs from Kragujevac? So, except this one lives at sea and this one's not at sea. Do you know her or don't you know her? Your time at the speed of lightning is running out, and the time will come for change. Because everything G17 plus did against Serbia, against our people and against our citizens, is so bad and so much of it has been done with so much thieving, so much crime and everything else, that the citizens of Serbia are just waiting to see your back. As for your commitment to one or another people, our people, both in Užica and Republika Srpska and in Montenegro, feel the same way about you. Anything with a stick can't be thrown out 2%, and that measure will be reduced to you, believe me, and you can see to it that you give up your people as much as possible. Happiness in Serbia has those who won't give up their people, who won't muddle their people and who won't go against the interests of their people. Secondly, I have seen that this is also an attitude against the government of the Republic of Serbia. Kostunica differs on Djukanovic. Is that something against the Prime Minister? Or the Prime Minister's gone crazy again, so let's listen to you. Tell me at last what your policy is. Yesterday, Labus was this short of being on Tadic's side, and today you're so short of being on Djukanovic's side, so is it just public procurement and tenders keeping you in place? Come out, say again what you think, say what you want, say what your idea is. You want Serbia and Montenegro without Montenegro? So you don't need Montenegro. You want to go without Kosovo? Say, you will without the Republika Srpska, say whatever you want, and no one will do anything about your political attitude, but don't go behind this people's backs and backs of this country and say that you're up for something else, because now all the cards are open. Yesterday it snowed, so some would show their trail, to see exactly what they are and what they are and it's good that Serbia saw it. It's a good thing you came out today to see what you're like. So long before any conversation about anything, we are confident, we need choices to show the people who they want, and you, be assured, will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22322	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22323	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I am pleased to have succeeded in provoking my discussion of the honourable colleague Vukic, who is a kind of MP, to come down from his office and like the Furies chasing him to enter the assembly hall. The resemblance between me and Mr. Vukic was only that he was in the working presidency of the Constitutional Assembly about 13 years ago, 1992, if I remember correctly, as the youngest MP, sitting and chairing. Last year, at Savindan, I had the honor of being in the working presidency of a constitutional assembly. With the result, I came, no one brought me. I am glad that some comments have been heard here and that the Radical Party is much better at promoting the idea of G17 plus what we are doing; some of the comments are that I am not a good MP of the National Assembly, that I do not represent the citizens of Užica, Zlatibor County and Serbia. I am being transferred here to not represent the interests of the citizens of Montenegro, Republika Srpska and other places. Of course I don't represent. These are countries that function outside our country, but since Mr. Vukic also warned me about Visegrad, that he is in the immediate vicinity of my city, I can tell you, I haven't told you this before, my father spent four months at the war in 1991, my brother from his uncle was trapped in Varazdin in 1991, my uncle died in 1999 in a war as an officer of the Yugoslav Army, which you challenged. You've caused a lot of suffering to my family, you've done it, and I haven't talked about it. After those wars, I went back to the Army of Serbia-Montenegro and to the reserve school of officers, not to flee from recruiting obligations and from some future wars, but to defend my country, not as you defended it, but as it is in the spirit of Serbian tradition and my ancestors, who left bones on Cera, Kymachalan and in many other places. What's said here is that G17 plus only deals with some tenders, purchases and other things. G17 plus doesn't do it. What we do is we are the most regular MPs in the Serbian Parliament. If you take out the listing you will see that of the first three MPs per regularity two are from G17 plus, and in the first 20 you certainly have 12 or 13 more people from G17 plus. Our ministers at the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Health and Deputy Prime Minister, who has been commented here, are among the most regular in the Serbian government. They resent that they do not often come to this parliament. I believe it is more because of obligations than because of a bad relationship with parliament, and I hope it will be better. The only problem we've had is with Minister of Defense, Minister Davinic. Of course, as responsible people, we were the first to point finger to that problem and we solved it. Now he remains on the prosecution's side to bring this process to an end, and I will continue to be available to you for replicas. I'm glad the deputy president of the largest group MPs in the assembly is coming out on the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22324	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you, Mr. President, for running inside as a typhoon, in fact, there's no need to protect your MPs, no one will hurt them. We're just going to show the people a little bit about your policy, Mr. President. It's good to see you so breathy as you run into our O.R. It's not a common occasion. Now let's consider something the representatives of G17 plus said. With all due respect, I love people who talk nice and talk and exchange arguments. Let me ask you, is this Kaimachalan, where is that? (Ivan Zivadinović, from the post: In the EU. ) In the European Union, Kamakalan?- I'm sorry. Your grandfather went to defend the EU at the Cayman?- I'm sorry. My people, I've heard a lot of things, but if he'd gone to defend the EU's Cayman, I didn't know that. You have managed to make all MPs laugh in the National Assembly. You managed to make them laugh even though your grandfather wasn't laughing at Kajmakalan, and he didn't even have the EU, he was into the Serbian and Serbian people, and that's why today in the grave when he hears what his grandson is saying to him and what the EU mentions to him in Kajmachalan Everything is possible today. In a clever way, you tried to change my words. My words were not that you represented no one's interests, you didn't say that, but you said you didn't care what was going on in Montenegro, Republika Srpska, etc. That's what I've been reacting to, and that's the truth. You don't care what happens to our people, because you've never been interested in it. Never from your party, because, let Milo Djukanovic get away nicely, what do we care what he takes 40% of Serbs with him, people who are the same religion, truths, exactly like us, only Tito did and said – this is no longer Serbia but Montenegro or anyone else. You don't even know the difference. What's the difference between Visegrad and any of us? Between the people of Visegrad and any of us, between the people of Banja Luka and any of us? In the fact that they were accidentally born 300 or 400 kilometers west or east of them, we were born unhappyly. Any of us, we belong to the same generation, man of God! What is the difference between a man from Bijeljina, Trebinj, Subotica, Novi Sad, Pirota, Pljevlja, Prijelje or any other place. She's gone for us. It's huge for you, because Tito's in your head, because he drew you different. No, they're not. They're the same people. Albian, don't help him. I know you're very dangerous, and to make it difficult, don't help him. But about who was making wars for something that was very serious. You're saying we've caused wars. Excuse me. Who supports you? At that time when the wars began, we weren't in power at all. You're where you are today, this man is sitting here thanks to the SPS voices. Since you're not ashamed, you accuse the state of Serbia of being guilty of starting wars. You wouldn't have had any public procurement, no tender, or anything if they hadn't voted for you here. You found an SRS to mention. You don't know why or how. Now, all of a sudden, to wash your immoral cheek, it's all your fault, and some who support you suddenly became good. I have nothing against them, everything they did at the time they defended Serbia as far as it was concerned, I have for some other things. What are you talking about, man? Remember who supports you. Let them remember who chose the foreign minister. Just think about it and then see how nice and happy you are when public procurement and tenders are chosen by those who are guilty of war. I will defend your coalition partners. It is not their fault, but the Croatian, Slovenian and other separatists, who wanted to separate territory from an internationally-recognized entity such as the SFRY, who wanted to take the Serbs with them, and they only wanted to stay in one country and nothing more. Don't let our telegram arrive and your uncle's family give you up. What private? Did he mention his grandfather here himself, and let us know that Grandpa defended the EU in the Caymans?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22326	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22327	Don't beg me, tell it to your MPs. He says, "Here, the EU defends at the Kamakalan!" I thought he was defending Serbia in Kajmachalan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22328	Please, no private features of MPs. Finish it, you are all my messengers, not my messengers, but the work of the Rules of Procedure for all MPs. Be kind and bring the end of the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22329	That you're not yelling at me, because you're hardly going to scare me. You did a little bit of this typhoonic entry made me uncomfortable and I was worried a little bit, but there's no need to raise your tone, I'm quite concentrated, very polite and politely speaking. I was just talking about what the MP was talking about before me. I ask a question -- it's not like my grandfather was defending something other than Serbia, and he says: the European Union. Here, people say that the battle of the Cayman is a famous battle for the EU. Enter that in all history textbooks, citizens of Serbia. And they lead Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22330	There is no reason to now that with self - respect and with regard to all that this congregation is yesterday, a congregation representing 4.200,000 voters I don't have to answer where I've been. [[Lowering from the O.R.: Where were you yesterday?]] Please don't throw it away. You know exactly where I was when I was. Now we're talking about the Serbian Parliament and I'm here today. Today's budget is on the agenda and you all know how important this is for Serbia's defence and future. Of course, with the remarks we have, different, but that's what congregation business is about. In comparison, that's what's most important. It is also important that we respect the rules and respect each other's agreement. I thank you for your compliments. I didn't come in as a typhoon, I don't have that kind of inert, I came in as the responsible man who promised the vice president that he'd come in at 1:30 to replace him. I was a minute late, so I got in quickly, so we wouldn't be late. Now we will take a regular break of an hour and at 14.45 a.m., according to the Rules of Procedure, the first will have a word, if there is one, MP Ivan Zivadinović. No right will be denied, we're working on the Rules of Procedure. Paused until 14.45 p.m. [[After break – 15,05]] Dear Houses and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work after a one-hour break. We interrupted the amendment's debate on Article 6 when, after a longer discussion, MP Ivan Zivadinovic reported. The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Members of 103 and 104. Sadly, there was no protection of the dignity of the National Assembly and the reputation of the MPs. In the inability to be discredited in some arguments, the previous speaker set out to insult my personal dignity, bringing some untruths here and insulting my ancestors. Insulting me personally and bringing out some facts here that my grandfather is allegedly turning into a grave because of my morals and having immoral cheeks. I expect, Mr. President, that, according to the Rules of Procedure, for this kind of innuendo, you'll be making warnings in the future, because this is, in my opinion, the biggest insult I can get. Of course, I will never, or in the future, insult my fellow MPs, because we are here on the same mission, the same people have chosen us, only the question of who represents the interests of that people who chose him. G17 plus has so far been a quality representative of the interests of this people. And in this budget debate, if you look at it, you'll see that there are most of our MPs in the room.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22333	Article 103 says that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Please, we all respect you. Also, no one can interrupt speakers, nor warn except the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure, which the president of the Assembly did at the end of the afternoon session. I beg of you, first of all, self-respect and mutual dignity. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, you've been subject to exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22334	It wasn't my intention to insult myself, especially your ancestors. I was just commenting that I didn't know that a cemetery in the Caymans belonged to the European Union or that people fought there for the European Union. That was interesting to me. If I did, I don't have a problem every time I say I was wrong or I did something. I told Mr Markovic that he had given me two warnings in time, although these warnings are not in line with the Constitution, nor with reasonable behaviour in the National Assembly, but in accordance with the existing criminal rules that we have and what they exist, that he was right, and for some he had no right. As far as this is concerned, you've got yourself into it, and I can't think of it. I despise people who interfere with other people's family relations, I despise those who staged those affairs for Dragan Marsican, because I think that the people involved represent the worst waste on the globe. You came across the wrong man when you were talking about it. As far as the story itself is concerned: who, what, how much and how it works, I think Serbian citizens are able to see it. Absolutely the largest number of amendments and the greatest seriousness in the National Assembly show radicals. I want to ask again those who said yesterday that they would return to the congregation only when the most important topic is on the agenda. They returned and participated in a debate on Kosovo and Metohija. How they participated better if they didn't, but they did it in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. Their top representative came out for this speaker and said -- not Kosovo and Metohija a key issue, but an economy. Was that right, Mr. Vlaovic? Yes, it is. They said that yesterday and now I wonder which one of them is lying, which one is valid and whether Kosovo is more important to them than the economy or the economy of Kosovo. Now we're talking economics, they're not in the O.R., and they were in the O.R. about Kosovo. I don't understand. I don't understand what's going on in our country. Secondly, if you don't take it personally, I was just talking about G17 plus policy, which I think is all the worst or nothing good about, if it's easier for you, as you think about our policy, and there's no big dispute. The dispute will be resolved by voters, the dispute will be resolved by Serbian citizens, they will say whether you are right or we are right. It would be good for us to cover these sufferings for both of us, to go to the elections as soon as possible, to get legitimate authority at least any of them, maybe you get 130 MPs, maybe you don't get it, but to go to the elections so we don't waste any more time, that it doesn't pass the time, and that Serbia is getting worse and harder. I think the people are the best court and the best judge and everyone will be put in the right place – you who say you work extremely hard in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and of us who do bad things for you. And we think it's just the other way around and there's no big philosophy, no big stories. It's absolutely the best solution, as well as for those other people who know nothing more than to send statements against the radicals. I'll look back on one fact. Every day, not only in the National Assembly, but in many media outlets, the only party exposed to attacks from all sides is the SRS. The question is, are we all the authorities in this country, and we're the only one who doesn't have any power? I'm not talking about local, I'm talking about government in territorial autonomy, in Vojvodina, I'm talking about government at the republican level, I'm talking about government at Union or confederate level. We don't have any power anywhere, and we're all being attacked. I don't think I can complain or complain about it. I just want to point out that it's not normal. Why is that happening? That's what happens because a lot of people got scared of the reaction. We've been in opposition for five years. Leave us alone. You are in power for five years, so answer for what you do and what you do. You can't attack the Democratic Party, because you don't know who's going to get caught in there, and they're taking away your electoral body. You must not attack Karic – whether he will let me on TV or not. You must not attack anyone else, no one alive on the globe, only against the Serbian Radical Party and everyone does it. Those from the Democratic Party say – we are going into a major campaign to bring down the government, and the collapse of the government is about printing primitive and stupid posters against Tome Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. They're your campaigns, like we're presidents of the assembly, prime ministers, and I don't even know what it is!- I'm sorry. No, we didn't. Let me let you know. The president of Serbia is Boris Tadic, performs the duty, badly, but performs it. The Prime Minister is Vojislav Kostunica, the president of the assembly is Predrag Markovic. These are the authorities in Serbia. Think about it, because elemental logic is just saying the opposite of what you're saying. One more thing, there are more SRS deputies in the O.R. than any other parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22335	Do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about Mr Kragovic's amendment? No, I don't. ) In part, the interests of allies, part of the interests of our country, are defended, but we are not going to argue about this now. The 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22336	I thank you, Mr. President, for making sure that every amendment of the SRS is reasoned. National MP Milan Stevovic has submitted an amendment that in article 6 he split up to 7, office 180, in economic classification 463, an amount of 15 billion 400 million in swaps of 24 billion, and the amount in columns 6 and 8 of 71 billion in exchange for an amount of 80 billion 488 million dinars. The point is: these funds are transferred to municipalities and cities, and the amount of 713 million is intended for the co-ordination body of the federal government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. The deployment and use of these funds will take place through a special government act, according to the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Milan Stevovic, as mayor of Požega, saw all the shortcomings in the previous budget, in which we had insufficient funds to develop local self-government to give to cities and municipalities. It suggests that this amount is increased, and that the section relating to the surplus seems to be just a book surplus and that otherwise the surplus actually does not exist, aimed at further development of local self-government. It's not in this amount of money, but if it does, it's just that it's been taxed in this country and everything, they literally haven't been able to tax more air. Therefore, the voice of experience and the voice of reason should also be heard. When I say the voice of reason, I mean the voice of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22337	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else on the amendment? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. At the same time, I am informing you all that today we will be working, on the basis of Article 85(5), until the hearing is completed in particular on the agenda of the 1800 hours. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22338	Ladies and gentlemen, at the very least, the government's argument that individual amendments to the SRS are being rejected is ridiculous. So, at the very least, because in most cases the following text goes: ''Amendman is rejected for the reason that the proposed amendment is contrary to Article 26(3). The Budgetary System Act, which states that in the budgetary process, the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must also contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditures by the same amount.' Whoever wrote such an explanation and copied it for each of the next amendments would have been better off taking all the amendments of the SRS, taking a good look at what it says, so it would have come to the conclusion that all the amendments, as a whole, are giving balance to each subsequent amendment. So it was also about Article 26. The law on the budgetary system, each subsequent amendment, starting from the amendment to Article 1 to Article 1. 6th and 7th where the table picture of expenditure for 2006 is, he would see that there is a balance required in Article 26. Budgetary system law. The second problem now is that, according to the concept of Mladjan Dinkic, amendments cannot affect the surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That can't change. It can't be defined. That's how the finance minister handled it and denied it the right to the MPs. Those who vote do not vote with their heads, but simply for obedience. They've denied it to themselves here. We are now in a situation where we cannot influence, at least in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or Mladjan Dinkic, on the very budget, which has defined 39 billion dinars and will be its surplus, etc. However, they have made little effort to make it not look so dry, yet sometimes documents, or add some more texts and say, when it comes to the military, which is the same member, the same split, the same head, the same function, it is said that for the Ministry of Defence, or the Army of Serbia-Montenegro, it is in accordance with Article 18. The constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro as part of the transfer funds for carrying out trusted competences and additional expenditure on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, envisions 46 billion 990m dinars, which is 2.55% of gross domestic product and more than average separation in the surrounding countries, which is 2.5%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, boasts that the entire 0.05% gave to the military in the 2006 draft budget law. He says that's enough for them. The destruction of the army of the state union, i.e. the SRJ, began with the arrival of Defence Minister Boris Tadic. It was then that the destruction of the army began, by order of those who bombed us in 1999. So, it and such an army had to be destroyed first, and then through some reform it mainly relied on NATO troops, weapons, strategy, and you do not hide yourself that your goal is to make Serbia a NATO member, forgetting that they killed our citizens six years ago. It doesn't matter to you. It seems to me that you Serbian citizens do not understand the citizens you represent in this election. That's another story now. What's 0.05% of GDP, what's 250 million, 300 million? And the question is, what are those 0.05% going for? So far, the military has played a major role in securing the state border, constitutional order and keeping the facilities in its jurisdiction. Now we have another person the army must guard. He has to guard, and I don't know what he owed them, but -- that the extra funds may not go to security for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic? How much of the budget money does the Republic of Serbia spend on its security out of the BIA and state security? Is it even necessary to have one such expense? Is it possible that he was planning on covering his parades here when he had to line up the guard? Is there going to be a pay for that security detail that he imagined was from the most ordinary dog assassin in the car, who drives so crazy through Belgrade and God forbid you get in their way, he'll run you over, in some armored "audies", mostly expensive cars. So, will that 0.05% be spent on the false president of the Republic of Serbia, His Majesty of the false Emperor Scepan Malo. While you're talking here, and some have touched Montenegro and the Serbs from Montenegro, you voted for one such Serb from Montenegro, but you don't want to live in the common state with those citizens. Did you give him support? You voted in favour of him, you made a campaign for him with the list, especially the G17, which gave up its presidential candidate, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Now, gentlemen, the fact that you voted Boris Tadic for the president of Serbia, and he's only doing the job of the president of the DS, he's running his own personal programme, now you have to pay him security, 0.05% of GDP. Perhaps it is not much for the state, for Boris Tadic it is certainly a significant means that he will be able to spend, and especially if abroad he has to run his famous security and it represents some programme for Kosovo and Metohija, and no one in Serbia knows what his programme is, he does not have the support of the National Assembly to do so, and he needs the support of the National Assembly. For that you define the budget, you're reportedly giving more to the military of the state community, and you'll spend a good deal of your resources to secure his Majesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22339	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22340	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 6. The draft budget law reads: "In article 6, section 11, function 410, in economic classification 62, amounting to 1,000,000,000 dinars, is replaced by 2000,000,000 and is replaced by columns 6 and 8 of 2,000,000. What's this about? This economic classification lists the purchase of domestic financial assets. The point is that the assets of this one billion dinar appraisal are intended for microcredits for the employment programmes of those who have lost their jobs and the funding of another billion dinars will be used to encourage regional development. Bor, Kragujevac, Vranje and other cities and municipalities are listed, and the schedules for the use of the assets of this appraisal will take place under a special government act. The government has not accepted this amendment because the amendment, as they say in response, does not specify what positions are economic from which these additional two billion should be removed or provide an inflow for these new two billion. However, in light of the amendments, which is in a broader sense an integral part of the amendment, I have stated that these funds should be provided from a budget surplus, which is quite large. Why the amendment like this? It is that so far, the funds which, by various foundations, the government act or in other ways, have not been given out of the budget to encourage employment have not achieved a certain effect. I know, for example, in Bor, and I believe that in some other municipalities and cities, where these funds are being placed, these funds go exclusively according to some party principles to those close to local authorities and those who apply for those funds exclusively according to the party criteria. None of these people who are already in the business, who have reported certain actions or businesses, have used these funds to hire new people, but have been used exclusively for certain things that are unintended. They are often used to buy individual businesses, which are obtained at very low prices at local level, but are also used to maintain existing production, without being able to employ new ones. Despite being unintendedly used, I asked the amendment to increase by another billion dinars, and those who give these funds increase control of how they are spent. That would be roughly in these three municipalities, if they were evenly deployed, by 300 million dinars. So the 100 million left over from a billion would be divided into some other municipalities and cities. The local government in Bor has about 30 private people, who have helped the current coalition in pre-election campaigns, and those 30 are certainly the winners of the loan. If there were 600 million, then they could account for 30 million each, because they've already got one such loan of 10 million, but they could also count those who are extra-party, and they're in business or they're simply not in the parties that make up the local coalition, that part of the funds will get, so that would mean a lot more. If this amendment were to be adopted, and I don't believe it will, it might be possible to encourage production. When it comes to the interpretation of previous amendments and why they are not accepted, approximately 12% of the funds transferred to local self-government are projected to increase by 12%. I would ask all MPs, and since the minister is not here, and him, to take care of the border municipalities. First of all, I think of municipalities that are, as a rule, slightly developed, whose economic activities are very small and that, within that, at least these funds, if they accept this amendment and increase them by two billion dinars, they only place them in these areas; they try to run economic activities, and part of the funds transferred to be increased by, say, 10% for border municipalities. Interestingly, it remains the practical desolation of those areas that are far from the central parts of Serbia, that these are areas of our highest national and state interest, that money should be invested there. This special programme of the government, which they said would be deployed by a special act of government -- I don't have the confidence that this money will go to the right place, because last year's budget envisaged the same thing. However, none of this really happened, and most of those areas that are our border areas, they run out of population year after year. The reason for this is, in most cases, very small business activities, the inability to get employment and everything else. If you accept this amendment and if you introduce this kind of control into the purpose of spending these funds, I think it can be achieved that at least one part of our area is being strengthened economically, that at least the number of people who are there and that life in those areas can be restored. Otherwise, you'll see that we're going to run out of population quickly, and you should know that the border is not guarded by the military or the police, under the new law, the border is guarded by the population. If we do not have it there, it is an empty area, and believe that these are our border areas, I assume that the largest number of MPs have had the opportunity to visit them and see, that they may be the most beautiful parts of the Republic of Serbia, that they are ecologically and touristically very interesting and that they can represent a great momentum in the development of the entire Republic of Serbia. We have one part of the company located in the border districts. I'm going to set an example of the chemical product industry in Prahovo, which is closely linked to this technological process, production in RTB Bor. I can tell you that for several years now, the state has simply "washed hands" of that, even though these are enterprises owned by a majority state. For years, the state will not declare whether it wants to keep these companies in the ownership relationship and to account for them or to sell them and call a tender, to determine how these companies will be privatised. For years, most people have lost their jobs. A new layoff of workers is being prepared in these areas. If these funds don't increase and invest in economic activity, you'll see that we're going to have a huge problem. We'll probably be waiting for something like that in ten years from now in Greece. In Greece, of about ten million people, five million live in Athens, which means each other is an Athenian Greek. That's how it's gonna happen with Serbia when we get to 4-5 million Serbs in Belgrade. If this can be understood in the case of Greece, which has so much land that it is not agriculturally attractive, it cannot be understood in the case of Serbia. Because Serbia is a country with favourable climate and other conditions for the development of bar agricultural production and enormous mineral wealth, and the state does not want to take care of it, but does not want to privatise businesses engaged in such production in order to launch economic activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22341	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic. The president of the assembly allowed the minister to attend a meeting with the city's representatives at the moment, given the problem you have drawn attention to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of Mr. Rankic's debate, I'll say something short on the Majdanek municipality. Encouraged by the minister's story of a moment ago, where he'd slip away to say he was coming to those municipalities where he was called or where he could solve a problem. Where he can't solve it, he probably doesn't go or they don't call him. I can't believe they didn't call him in the Majdanpek municipality. You know that Majdanpek is a frozen city, where bad economic situation and poverty can't provide a master for central heating. For information, Minister Majdanpek is a municipality located 180km southeast of Belgrade. You can come in two ways: down the Danube through the Fireman, the Great City, the Golubca, where it was, and even if it had gone down the Danube, it would have reached the Municipality of Majdanpek, or through the road through Pogorec, Kučeva, the road is not the best, Vela does not maintain those roads, but it is possible to pass if there is a good will to arrive. The municipality of Majdanpek, according to the 2002 census, has 23,700 inhabitants, with a list of about 30,000 residents prior to that. In the municipality of Majdanpek lives about 26 different nationalities, one environment where they came from all over the former Yugoslavia and the world, there are Poles, Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Romanians, Germans and Russians. I'm looking historically at how the mine developed and who exploited all the mineral treasure in the town of Peck. So that's why it's called Majdanpek, so Majdan on the Peck River. I'll leave Mr. Minister a tourist ticket to see, since business doesn't bring him there, let him spend some tourist dinar and go around, it's nice to see the Maydanpek municipality's tourist offer. The Municipality of Majdanpek has 14 settlements, the largest are Majdanpek and Donji Milanovac, but what I'm saying is very difficult. Very poor places from Majdanpek to Bor, the railroad, are: Fat Lug, Leskovo, Jasikovo and Vlaola, where because of the terrain on which each activity has stopped. There are workers who worked at the Mining-Toping Base, whether in the pine area of the mine or in the part of Majdanpek, lost their jobs, without any means of life, faced with the problem of mandatory payment of contributions to PIO and unable to do so. There's a large number of households, and I want you to pass it on to the minister, and there's no health book, because they can't be secured on the other basis, and they can't get that health care. Imagine, the income from agriculture is one dinar, which is why they're mandatory, at least one member of the household, and in terms of the law on that health insurance, you know what it's all about in the household, to pay for a certain amount. Households who can't handle it, then they're not even able to get that protection. What's the question for the minister, therefore, that some grandmother, after not knowing how many years, had the right to retire based on agriculture, died, the family can't raise those funds, because those agricultural pensions are more than 24 months late. The Minister's question, can these agricultural pensions be paid off somehow faster, because the minister was saying something about a backlog of pensions for pensioners, of a large debt, didn't mention anything about paying off those leftover pensions for farmers. These people, in those small places, which are now almost displaced, and the rest of them only live where they have nowhere to go, would mean a lot. A tour of the terrain and doing this political job of ours, it is very nice and pleasant to see a salash on a far hill in these villages that are very poor. In addition to what I've listed, there are the villages of Doves, Boltin. The doves have one secluded, there is one more, but I can't remember the name, in a very passive area, where the stone is, you have the impression that the stone is nothing from the ground, because the rain has washed the ground, so there are the spikes of stone, that in this little poor household you have two or three children in the yard, and elsewhere there are castles of people living abroad (and they are able to make castles, big fences, facades), and in this yard there are weeds, because there are no children to play, there are no inhabitants, everything is displaced. The population in these very poor small municipalities, or cities, should pay little attention in terms of the development of the border work, which was discussed by counterpart Rankic. These are the municipalities of Majdanpek, Golubac, down the Danube, Kladovo, Negotin, because the parts of these municipalities are certain villages, very poor, with no means to live. In that sense, I would like the minister to allocate more funds to the municipality of Majdanpek, and if I had time, I would read to you how a certain Mr. Karamarkovic, then the president of the Majdanpek municipality, and what ways he used to convince the government at the time to separate more funds for the development of that municipality. It's the same situation today, maybe harder from the point of view than most people who live there are at risk, and they have nowhere to go, because they stayed on that property to keep their families alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22343	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Blagica Kostic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22344	Mr. Chairman, I have reasonable doubts that the minister would accept my amendment if he were present at the moment, but I hope that my fellow MPs in the voting day will do so anyway. It is about redistributing money within the division of the Ministry of Capital Investments: removing from the position intended for financial enterprises and transferring to a position intended for the reconstruction of the Kolubar district, I think of the municipality of Mininica above all. Since 1998, according to the Law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district and the Regulation on the way and conditions of the use of solidarity funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, funds are being pooled to tens of billions of dinars, but more than a thousand buildings have not been recovered in the Colubar district field, although the damage has been done to about 4,000. Such a redistribution would help to correct some of the injustices and return to the Kolubar County the money that has so far been purposelessly spent. The minister accepted the amendment of my colleague, Mr. Belic, of course I welcome it, but I believe that once and for all, this story should be finished and that this transfer can absolutely end everything that hasn't been done for years. On many occasions, I have asked a parliamentary question that I have never received an answer from the government of Prime Minister Kostunica. Now I'm going to publicly ask the question I've been through for the last time. So the question is, how much money has been raised? reached under the Law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Colubary County and the Regulation on the way and conditions of the use of solidarity funds to eliminate earthquakes in the Colubary County? How were the funds collected spent? Specify all built objects, i.e. The names and names of the owners of the renovated facilities, as well as the addresses of the dwellings. I recently asked for a reception with the police minister, Mr. Dragan Jocic, and I received his assurance that all of this would be investigated by the police and processed, if there is any reason to do so. This time I support the endurance of the MUP to do that part all the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22345	Thank you. I'm sorry, I haven't been through the whole discussion. There's been a repeat of what needs to be in the stenogram as a parliamentary question, is there not? It's all right, there you go, Mr. Whitey.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22346	I really have an obligation, given that I have been at the head of the Kolubar County Council since last year, and simply, like this, it seems to me that a lot will be used by my colleague, Blagici Kostic, a few data, as the Directorate has done and how much money has been invested in the reconstruction or adaptation of the facilities so far. You see, the estimated damage in the Colubary County was 6.1 or 12 billion dinars. After the revaluation carried out in July 2002, the amount was rounded to 23 billion dinars. So far, six billion 127 million has been invested in the 1999 period, with these funds arriving in the Directorate in 2005. According to this dynamic (in terms of dynamics, I think 500 million a year is being paid into the account of the Directorate) it would take the next 17 years for the estimated damage to be compensated. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been sitting since May 1994 with this conclusion the number and so on. It adopted a programme to rebuild the construction of the Kolubar district affected by an earthquake showing the remaining total damage to be compensated for by 8.3 billion dinars. It's very important data, and I think it'll help you. Now, just a few words and about the criteria. The criteria were, of course, established in 1999, and it is clear exactly which way the municipality and by what basis the municipality receives what percentage of the funds. These things have been defined and I can indeed responsibly claim that since June 2004, since I am in office of the Council of Directors, this distribution has been strictly respected. Now I would absolutely agree with a few things that the funds to be paid to the Directorate are not enough. In the work of the 1999 Directorate, certain changes should be made, i.e. little work should be adapted more to these present conditions. Which is why I'm saying it. You remember that in the beginning it was also possible to assign construction material to citizens to resuscitate or adapt objects. I can't talk about these abuses right now and I'm sure there were abuses, but I've personally convinced myself of a tour of the terrain, etc. how badly it was done from the municipality of Ljig to the municipality of Osječina, since virtually all the municipalities in this reconstruction program are. I agree that this should be done by the police, again by another state authority, but when the supply of construction material stopped, we asked the directorate, or from last year, to enable us, or citizens, and there are more than 5,000 on those lists, whether it is to build new buildings, whether it is to resuscitate existing facilities. To enable us, i.e. citizens, to also be able to obtain favourable loans, because there is great interest in citizens. Secondly, to be subject to strictly established rules, controls, etc. again enables citizens who have easier recoverys and are the most, as it depends on the extent of the damage, from the age of the facility, citizens have reported everything and everything, etc. so that the solution to their housing problem could be accelerated on this basis, and we also suggested the possibility that the Directorate become a public enterprise. The Directorate delivered several other projects, i.e. the Council of Directorates. Unfortunately, we do not have an answer so far, and we have not quite come across the willingness to consider the possibility of granting favourable loans or through the personal participation of citizens, since it is also very pronounced in those who have been damaged, so that in 50, 60% of the damage they would compensate for that percentage. And only 30, 40% to do so by the Directorate. These are all favourable things and I on that side can agree with these suggestions and, of course, the happiest would have been if that dynamic had been much faster if the funds had been higher, but even if the order had been known in the work of the Directorate since the very beginning, which wasn't the case. In 1999, 718.4 million dinars were paid or won. In 2000, a billion 189 million. In 2001, it was a billion dollars. That's the DOS period. In 2002, 766,33 million, in 2003. 682,600. After a change in parliament, after a change in Serbia's political scene in 2004, 283 million and 500 million in 2005. It's already at the end of the use of those funds. In 2006, with the 200 million granted, by the finance ministry, after this amendment, it is about 305 million, with Minister Dinkic's firm promise that we will be able to use one part of the budget reserve for the most urgent cases. That's how it works with these numbers. There's more, I wouldn't bother you here either, but I felt a commitment and because of citizens who are making objections to me every day and believe that the work of the Directorate and the work of the Council is really quite correct since June last year, and unfortunately for the leper and we're getting close.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22347	Any other MPs? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22348	I thank Mr. Belic for his clarifications, by saying that I am talking here about 1998, 1999 and 2000, above all, when it comes to the Sanitation Law, so to speak. The Earthquake Act, made 0.15% of all the Virman payments. It has been estimated to have been about six billion dinars a year. We've had such three financial years, which means someone's turned the money to resuscitate the Colubary County into some other stuff. I insist on exorcising who took it from the Colubary County. On the other hand, and from these funds that have been paid so far, that's 6.1 billion dinars. If you divide that into four thousand objects, I'm going to banalize things, you're going to get that it's going to belong somewhere around a million and a half dinars per object. At the time when things were happening, you'll admit it's a very big asset, that money was given directly to those who had damage to the facilities, believe that they would do more than the state did.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22349	I am asking you to do this question exactly as you said to solve it through the parliamentary question, because there are data, another kind of method of payment organization, which is paid over one municipality, and what over the other and already there are long these problems, so it is not correct that we are now changing them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22350	I would refer to these two previous discussions. I think it is very important, given that there is a problem of lack of funds, that there have been significant malversions, i.e. non-purpose spending, that as one of the three members of the Board of Supervisors of the Kolubar region's Rehabilitation Directorate from this place I remind and ask the government, i.e. the competent ministry to schedule the first meeting as soon as possible. It's been a year and a half, I don't know why we don't call, why we don't start work. I was very happy to accept this responsibility. I want two other colleagues, one from Ub, one from Valjev, one from Valjev, to search all the papers responsibly, all the books from the beginning to today, and to go to this assembly with concrete data. I think we'll be able to get a lot of funding back into the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22351	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if any amendment was to be adopted, the amendment of the MP, Dr Branislav Blazic, should have been adopted before, which he is extremely ruling with matter. He was Minister of Ecology. He submitted an amendment to article 6, where he asked to split up in article 6, Section 17, wipe out chapter 17.1, and function 560 is deleted. An explanation of why the amendment has not been adopted says: the amendment is rejected for reasons of Article 14(2). The law on ministries as a body of administration at the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, an educated Environment Protection Board, which is funded from the budget. Let's see how you planned to fund that environmental protection agency. In doing so, I have to say that, in addition to environmental protection, there is also an Environment Protection Agency, and there is a Environmental Protection Fund. This is what it says, environmental protection – wages and employee data 106.993,000. All right, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. We all know that after the Bulldozer Revolution, you had to hire all the first fighters, including the other fighters, those who ran from other parties to your party in the first month. By the way, one of your first fighters was arrested yesterday or today, the one that stole the painting and took it to the auction house, let it sell. I don't know how long you'll be without them. I'm sure you can't pull off the next revolution. Further, social contributions, that's fine. Compensation in nature. What are you giving the first fighters in nature, unless they're pouring a "October 2000" monument to them? Rewards, bonuses and other special expenses, permanent expenses. The cost of travel is 5.5 million?- I'm sorry. They're planning to travel a lot. Service contracted three million. Specialized services, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, 175 million dinars are to receive one of these three institutions, 175 million specialized services. Next, the material is 600,000, it doesn't matter. Subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations 128 million. Machines and equipment six million. Over here 180 and over 130, that's three hundred and a few million favors. The administration pays the favors. When you add everything together, you have here the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, and they say this administration is incorporated, this fund, this agency, etc., Ministry 5,678,200,000 etc. When summed up what goes to the ministry and what goes for these three public institutions, not to say public houses, it is 6,328,000,000. I suggest that in the voting day you adopt this amendment and at least unburden the budget. And these funds that will remain here to be directed into the army, into the police, to be directed into the defense of the border and into those three municipalities: Bujanovac, Preshevo, and Medvedja.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22353	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22354	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS, and I ask that in Article 6, section 17 be deleted, chapter 17.2 and function 560. What my previous party friends have said is that there is our principled position and that we believe that by setting up agencies we have not received anything good. They have not shown special efficiency in their work, and what is our biggest objection to these agencies, that these are the parallel authorities of the administration and that it is best seen in this particular article. I've brought the budget here myself, and you can see that we need to allocate budgets here, first, to the Environmental Protection Authority, and then we have the Environmental Protection Agency. If you just look at what's been given here as a cost-effective side, what the funds are spent on, your eyes fall on wages and on paying certain services. There are no other special functions here. After that goes the division of the 17.3 Environment Fund, against which we have no objection and logically that it exists, because it is necessary. We believe that if it is already said in the budget that public spending needs to be fucked, if you start agencies and spend money on employees' salaries, if you double jobs in the state, then you have one expensive state and you have high public spending. We don't see any excuses. The Government responds to us as follows: "The amendment is rejected for the reason that Article 14 paragraph 3. The law on ministries, as the authority of the administration of the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, has been educated by this agency and it has been found that the funds for the work of this agency are provided in the budget of the Republic." We know it and we don't say it isn't. We simply say we don't need to give the funds twice, especially in this way. What's the problem, anyway? It has been said that public spending must be fucked, and the state administration and the expensive state should not be touched. There are, however, other parts of this budget that show that the state administration has fallen as well. But it's absolutely not here, when we talk about the environment, when we talk about the agency and when we talk about management. That's clear. Why this isn't done here, we don't get it. If consumption is to be cut by 1.3 per cent of gross national income, when administration is not reduced. Let me say something else, when you don't cut your salary to the MPs, deserved or undeserved, then reach for something else. What else is that? Health care. Is today in a country called Serbia and in which we have this state of health needed to single out 0.55 per cent of gross national income from health care? Do you need to take sick citizens' travel fees, do you need to take sickness benefits and the rest to get a virtual surplus and say that we have a surplus? Then the next stage will come, and then it will be said: "There is much for health, and let me reduce those separations." I think the way it's imagined and presented here is absolutely wrong and that on this particular member we can see how a single common state wastes its budgets irrationally. This is unnecessary. No state should reach out to the rights of the sick, because there is much poverty in this country and the people are sicker than they were before 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22355	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22356	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is now another example of the irrational availability of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection and now that in its composition, and based on various decisions, regulations, laws, etc., there are several parallel bodies dealing with the same business. Now that we have the Environmental Protection Authority, then the Environment Agency, then the Environment Fund, you'd think that Serbia is working to be an ecological state and its citizens are healthy. to live in a healthy and natural environment. However, when looking at the cost side of these various agencies and administrations, it is seen in fact that the funds will only be spent on employees' salaries. So there's no more serious giving for real environmental protection. We have 12,780,000 employees' salaries in that agency. There are now contributions to the employer's burden, etc. I'm just going to read the expenses so if they don't want the ruling majority to know, at least some citizens know where their funds are spent. Compensation in nature 125,000, fee for employees 300,000, fixed costs 400,000, travel costs 400,000, services under contract 250,000, specialized services 300,000, running repairs and maintenance 100,000, material 400,000, taxes 200,000, machines and equipment, these are official cars, 4,000.000 dinars. In all, this agency, we don't know what it's for, will spend 21,557,000 dinars. We have a Environmental Protection Fund. When a fund is said, someone is likely to assume that this Fund would place some funds, that various forms of pollution or eliminate or that these consequences are removed. However, when you look at the cost structure, you see salaries and additions of employees of 5,000,000 dinars, their contributions by a million dinars, services contracted by 430,000 dinars. Which services a Fund will have and why it does not use the Agency and why it does not use the Ministry that it already has for its services under the contract 190 million, and works within the same body, of the same ministry. It's called a specialized service of 21 million dinars. Which are specialized services, and we have specialized services at the Department of Environmental Protection 4 billion 605 million. What this Fund is going to do with specialized services, and couldn't that be used by the Ministry, which already has quite a large-defined funds for that kind of thing. It's called liquid repairs and maintenance of 15 million. What are they going to fix with 15 million and what facilities they have, that they have to spend so much money on liquid repairs and maintenance? Not to talk about how it's done and how these public procurements are done, etc. It's pretty familiar to the citizens. Something more modest for machines and equipment a million dinars. Mr. Minister, you said here that there was a need to streamline the government itself, so you suggested that one ministry be abolished, that jurisdiction be deployed to two ministries. Go out for this pay phone and tell us what the Environment Protection Agency, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Environment Fund, are all items of current costs, wages, travel, nutrition, rewards, costs only. We have the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection. Explain to us what we need from these agencies and these administrations when you're already planning on having one ministry shut down. Explain to the MPs what you will do with funds that are not small for these three or four authorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how you think you can rationalise here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22357	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Lazarevic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22358	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 6 of section 30, function of 470 of the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year. Let's get this straight, so our viewers can track it. It's about the Agency for the Development and Infrastructure of Local Self-Government. The draft budget envisions that the agency, which was established by amendments to the Ministry Act last year, will receive 292m dinar funds in the coming year. The budget amounts directly to 6.5 million, and the rest are part of the resources to be made out of the additional revenues of the authorities in the draft budget, i.e. as stated in the explanation that these are donations from some international organisations. In light of the budget for this division, it states that the maximum amount of funds for the work of this agency is planned for the implementation of the local self-government infrastructure development programme. The funds will be made on the basis of donations provided by the European Agency for Reconstruction. The funds are intended for the development of a study on the scope and objectives of the transformation of public utility enterprises, the development of a proposal for a strategy on the scope and objectives of the transformation of public utility enterprises and the cost of representation. This is in the explanation submitted by the applicant with the draft budget. It's an agency that I naively believed at the first moment that this agency with these funds should help implement, or implement, various projects in our local environments, projects from municipal infrastructure. However, when I read the explanation, it says here that this agency is engaged, according to the promoter, in making studies, strategies, etc. Nowhere is there anything concrete about some work, but it is more about some advisory work that will be spent on this kind of resources. I have proposed that this part be deleted and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered its opinion on this amendment, which states that it does not accept this amendment, for the following reason: "Amendman is rejected for the reason that the Agency established by the Ministry Act which has also established that the funds for the work of this agency are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia". All of this, last year's draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, introduced the agency as a new organisation. Now I'm going to read you a piece of this law that applies to this agency, to realize how pointless the agency itself is, and the very idea of an agency like this being formed. Article 28a of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys states: "The Agency for the Development of Infrastructure of Local Self-Government performs professional tasks relating to: encouraging the development and improvement of the infrastructure of local self-government units (municipation, cities and cities of Belgrade) by directly linking banks, financial organisations, representatives of the competent authorities of other states, cities and municipalities, as well as other development organisations and donors of loans, on the one hand, and local self-government units that submit projects to the Agency for the development of infrastructures on the other hand (concerning the source of funding of infrastructure projects); providing professional assistance in the preparation, development and implementation of infrastructure projects; taking activities that increase the participation of domestic banks and international financial institutions in the lending of infrastructure units of local self-government for the development of domestic market credits, and the need to contribute to the financing of infrastructures which are necessary to the necessary to promote their infrastructures; "If all of this is well looked at and analysed, you see, this agency encourages, promotes, connects, finds, provides, takes, coordinates. There's nothing here in particular. The agency is an intermediary between units of local self-government and mostly international, as it stands here, financial organisations and mainly which should in some way assist and finance projects in the municipal area, means local self-government. The logical question arises, why would one such agency in Serbia if all local self-governments were able to contact these international organisations directly if they needed to finance some projects in this way. I tried to find some arguments in a few local self-governments that would contribute to the proposal. Does this agency work in our local self-government? I got some very interesting answers. In some local self-governments, they don't even know there's an agency like this. By the way, I would like to point out, as the law provides, this agency, as it stands here, has a legal personality and it is organised at the level of the Republic, but has its departments and its representatives at the district level and at the level of local self-government, with those representatives at the level of local self-government being financed by local self-government. They're just an extra burden on local self-government budgets. I haven't been able to contact all the local self-governments, and I haven't come across confirmation of what the promoter said here and what's in the Ministry Act, that this agency has some real purpose and that our local self-government has some real benefit from this agency. I know that the promoter cannot accept this amendment, simply because the Ministry Act states that such an agency should be formed and that it is formed by the Republic of Serbia. It can be considered, that this law is changed and that this agency is abolished because it has no real purpose whatsoever, as well as many agencies established in the last few years in the Assembly in various areas which are mainly only consumers of budgetary resources, and there is no concrete benefit from these countries. I would use this time at my disposal to briefly refer to the Rules of Procedure and the answer I received to the parliamentary question addressed in July by the Minister of Finance. So I would take this opportunity when the minister is present. First, I want to say that I've asked four questions about the functioning of the tax administration in Uzic. I was expecting an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in a month's time, and I got three months later, after several interventions from this pay phone. Somewhere in October that response finally arrived. The answers to all the questions didn't come up, the answers to three questions came up. I would use my parliamentary right to comment briefly on them. The issues were related to the work of the tax administration in Uzic and to the work of the director of the tax administration, which was set up in November last year. It's about the director who's from line G17 plus and who's by the information I have, and then I said that I wanted that information to be checked, I didn't even call anyone, but I wanted it checked out and made it clear for the truth and the public and the people of Uzic, or the entire Zlatibor County. At that time, I noted that the Director of the Tax Administration had not passed an expert exam, which was confirmed by this reply. How informed I am in the meantime this expert exam has been passed and this has been obtained, but what is interesting in the answer, which I will now read in these fragments, is that the director of the tax administration has been accepted as director after the competition indefinitely. Here's what this says, here, and I'll quote the answer – regarding the expert exam in the state bodies director of the Užica branch, the regional center of Kragujevac, informs you that Aksentijević Danka, the so-called director, the graduate economist, the solution of the number since 12.11.2004, has been accepted in a public ad in a working relationship to indefinite time in the Tax Administration, to the job director of the branch. I'd like the minister to think about this a little bit, and if this is logical and normal, that someone should be admitted to the branch director's office indefinitely through the ad. Is that even possible? Let me point out, I received answers from Mr. Ilic, director of the IRS, and I asked Mr. Dinkic, Minister of Finance for answers. I don't even know if he had these answers on him or if he even read this. The second question referred to Mr. Pavlovic Slavko, who, according to the information I had and which I still have, was convicted by a judicial verdict of one of the crimes of abuse in the company he had previously worked in. It is like when G17 plus, again on the information that I have, deployed, upon the arrival of Mrs. Aksentjevic, at the head of the Tax Administration, was deployed to the post of head of the Emergency Payments Department. The question was whether a man who has been convicted by law could be a tax administration worker at all, especially in such a responsible place. In response, Mr. Pavlovic Slavko, a graduate economist, contributed to the conviction of the municipal court and of the number against him since 11 March 2002 that he was not being investigated, i.e. a criminal case at the Municipal Court in Užica and the District Court in Užica. The tax administration, as a state authority, has no obligation to enquire on employees subsequently, unless it has knowledge that an investigation is being conducted against an employee, i.e. criminal proceedings with the competent authority. He says, in this case, the IRS has no such knowledge. After this answer I got from the IRS from the employees of the new information that stands, I'll quote what I got from the IRS. First, he says that Mr. Pavlovic was deployed by Ms. Aksentijevic's arrival as director, which was deployed as head of forced payment. Before that, he was a field control inspector. In doing so, he received the appointment of advisers, although at the time he had not passed a professional exam, which was necessary for the systematicisation of jobs, while skipping the call of a senior professional associate and an independent professional associate. The two calls have been skipped to come to that place, which is contrary to the law and the rules on the exercise of rights and obligations in the labour relationship on the tax administration. Furthermore, the provision of Article 15 provides for a direct increase in the tax calling for employees to be obtained if they meet the conditions laid down in the law and if two years in parallel are assessed by an assessment of where they are particularly pointed out, which in this case was not the case. According to Danki Aksentjevic and Mr. Boskovic, who is the director of the center in Kragujevac, it is known that at the time an investigation was conducted against Mr. Pavlovic and the criminal proceedings under the proposal of the municipal public prosecutor in Uzic for various malfeasances and abuses of the official position, while he was the financial director at the Kotroman Enterprise in Mokroj Gora, for which he was found guilty and convicted in early 2005, which is also well known to the directors Danki Aksentjevic and Mr. Boskovic. Even so, Mr. Pavlovic was deployed to a new place on July 12th 2005, as head of the Department of Payment and Publishing Law. So he's moving on. Furthermore, I quote this letter as I received: "It is not true, as the director Ilic said in his reply, that in the case of Pavlovic, the administration had no such knowledge. In November 2003, it was asked by the Municipal and District Court to confirm that all employees in the Tax Administration of Užica, particularly inspectors, were not under investigation and that criminal proceedings were not conducted against them, and of course for Mr Pavlovic. Not only that, Danka Aksentjevic's director employs at the Tax Administration and Mr. Pavlovic's wife, who previously worked in Kotroman from Mokra Gora, at the workplace of the field control inspector at the Užička Tax Administration." Therefore, the director of the Uzice Tax Administration knew, as well as the director of the center in Kragujevac, that an investigation was being conducted against Pavlovic. They even hired, as it stands here, a lawyer from the Uzice Tax Administration to represent him in front of a judge. In an attempt to keep him from being successful, he has been convicted by law. He's still in the position of the Director of Publishing Law and the Department of Payments. I ask Mr. Minister, if this answer was not in his hands, which I received, to look at it and to check this all again in Uzic, because the situation in the Tax Administration is disastrously bad. The arrival of Ms. Aksentjevic in the Tax Administration employs a dozen G17 Plus personnel. In July, all received solutions for permanent employment without professional examinations, with no work experience, some of them also received executive jobs. It's all a bad picture of the work of a state body in Uzic, and the consequences are all citizens of the Zlatibor district.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22359	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22360	Hopefully by accident, it's brought into the negative context of G17 plus in Užica. I want to say, and that is what I said on TV-5 in Užica, the Tax Administration in Užica is the first place in terms of the efficiency of work in Serbia. In that sense, it should be said that the people who passed the procedure of coming to the Tax Administration in certain places, that they did so after the tests they passed. I'd like to see in other state authorities that professionalism is measured first and then people are placed in certain places. So, I'd like to discuss it professionally and duly. It is known when someone is hired to be employed in the event, that within a certain period of time they have to pass a professional exam, it is all an integral part of the legal procedure. I think it's worth paying attention and not bringing in a G17 plus for each individual case. Also mentioned, Mr. Boskovic, who is an outstanding operative at the Tax Administration. I think we should follow the tax administration's example of the reorganisation of the state administration. As far as the whole reorganisation is concerned, it is that in this service the most people and the rest are as surplus, because the ministry itself has been restructured. Some G17 plus members have lost their jobs the same way. Some members of the G17 plus were removed from the post of Head of the Tax Administration precisely because tests were carried out on the basis of which professional qualifications spoke in which position they were to be held. These principles will be managed by us. I don't want to involve G17 plus, because this was about an expert analysis and a professional kind of job. So G17 plus is one thing, and the work of competent state authorities is something else. The answers you've presented here let the minister take a look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22361	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22362	Let me get this straight. Mr. Albianic mentioned the tests that all employees of G17 staff plus take in employment, I'm not going in, it's an internal thing G17 plus. The law is clear. To work on these jobs should be owned, i.e. to pass an expert examination. Of course, there's this deadline of a year where you have to pass a professional exam, and your tests are your thing, G17 plus. I repeat, what I've brought out, it's not claims, it's information I received from the IRS, from employees there. They know best what the situation is in that organ. And last time, I asked the minister to engage himself and check all this out. However, as I understand from the response, the minister did not get involved in this, but left it to Director Ilic, who signed and delivered the response. I ask the minister to be involved, to check all this out, and if there are any arguments to take appropriate measures, and if not, I apologize on behalf of the employees who delivered this to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22363	Thank you. Do any of the MPs from the other parliamentary groups want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the item in the 2006 budget that we discussed several months earlier. In fact, when the National Assembly adopted the Law establishing the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Foreign Investment on a proposal from the Government, we strongly opposed this because of the way the Agency was established. Then, because of the Agency's managing authority, due to a reasonable suspicion that representatives of political parties seeking arrest and getting a certain engagement will be employed by the Agency. And because we believe that these funds could have been used in a much smarter way and be put into the function of increasing exports that are on the lowest possible branches. The current budget deficit in Serbia began to rise rapidly since 2003, and in 2001 and 2002, when the Dosovo government used most of the funds, but it was a minimum of not six billion dollars of grants, but a certain amount of donations, which it "shulled" through private accounts and did not use them for purposes, and it began to increase last year, and especially because of the fact that from 2000 to today, our external debt and over-indebtedness have been steadily increased due to the external trade deficit. It was meant to look for the causes of all problems and how to get through a stable monetary policy, not with a steady drop in the dinar compared to the euro, which is also detimulative for potential exporters, to the basic issue that we asked when the Agency was founded, and what Serbia is today ready to export. What do we have and what sector in the economy that can make a significant contribution? It is known to all of us that Serbia's strategic interest in the area of agriculture is not only so-called. sustainable development, but to force agriculture as a significant branch of the export economy. If agricultural products in the overall structure of our economy, these are exact data, they participate with 24%, plus the food industry, the question arises why systematic farmers are being destroyed from DOS authorities to today. Why there are no more subsidies, because they are certainly insufficient and how it is possible that in a local community in the municipality of Kula, where it has won convincingly in the local elections of the SRS, the finance minister comes and only for the sake of empty promises and the receipt of votes, in the Russian Kristur, promises 42 loans for farmers, and they have not received these until today. It is not the way to deceive people and destimulate themselves with an incredible fiscal press to achieve exports. Then what is this agency? One method to launder money. If you look back, the years before those senseless, financial and economic unremembered sanctions by, above all, your and your political and foreign mentors, which lasted years towards our country, when the economy suffered, then ask yourself how it is possible that in that former Yugoslavia, exports even functioned when there was no such agency. I'll tell you on the case of one sector of foreign trade, because that's the area I've been dealing with for three years. You know that by the end of the '90s, especially in 1989, at that time the largest production in our, now fallen, now failed industry, and whether it would recover with a contract with Fiat, that's a big question, the record of export units by the flag was 220,000 cars. The sector in which I was employed, the Department of Exports of Other Zastava products, means it's about other products, not overall, but various parts of the Zastava Group programme, had annual traffic, with only nine employees in the area of exports, of nine million dollars then. It didn't take any agency, just capable and energetic people and people who know how to make a favourable arrangement. Here it is now going through this policy of the government and the Ministry of Finance to systematically suppress people who want to deal with exports. So they don't need any promotion agency. It's absolutely clear to every'malinaire', every fruit farmer, everyone from Serbia's fruit garden area, that the import lobby is so strong, and that it has contributed to devalue every agricultural product, and our farmer has a hard time producing it, that he can't even try to look for anything. How are you going to stimulate and whether this agency with 50 million dinars can stimulate an'malinar' to export the raspberries, if the 2005 ransom price was for the best of 40 dinars, so 30 to 40 dinars compared to 80 dinars and last year, that I'm not talking about the growing deficit of the balance of payments, that I'm not talking about how the dinar and how it devalued the euro, you wanted to admit it or not, and that its real, or nominal value is now 25% lower. And it certainly affects all of this, especially because it has been created appropriately since 2000, so we say, for the business of Serbian tycoons, as well as the people recognize them and what they really are. You can't, under such conditions when monopolies do whatever they want and act like that, have commissions and anti-monopolis laws to protect competition, when those who directly govern individual cabinets are connected to the top of the state government. You can't stop them from doing whatever they want, and from creating suitable ground for the functioning of the market. It's not enough for our country to just sign certain bilateral agreements and free trade agreements, that's what I told you about when the rules and forms of this agency, when they don't apply. What about the Russian Federation has existed since 1998 and what we stand for, what Mr Tomislav Nikolic was talking about in the pre-election campaign, and many of you have wondered about it, which is indeed the only reality. So what we can produce here, and only on condition that we can recover, first of all, the textile industry, the metal complex, we can go to a big and huge Russian market. What can we take to the countries of the European Union today? This report they're giving about your work on so-called. Serbia-Montenegro's readiness to negotiate a Stabilisation and Association Programme, which you talk a lot about as the most important thing, which is a dead letter on paper, he himself says no elemental conditions have been created that they will not quote anything from us and very low the quality of our products. Why? Because we're technologically backtracked, because he's been robbed and stolen everywhere, because a lot of companies, which have been known both in the Middle Eastern market and in the Russian market, have been brought into bankruptcy, sold out because you're now asking these in Vranja, Piroth, Kragujevac and all over Serbia, so in Loznica, all the employees who worked in extremely powerful companies that had quality products, will tell you – the thieves from the government have all been scattered, scattered, there's nothing. So, workers are out of work, privatisation is done in a thieving way, social programs are not respected. Where do you expect to create export products? Therefore, this agency and this amount in the budget were to be used for social programmes: to give for the military, to give for people who had lost their roof over their heads because of these elementary disasters, for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, for education, for health care. So, this is just a way to wash off the huge funds, to get home to those lepers who have nothing to do, but they're supposed to promote exports, and now you're going to explain to the Serbian peasant who's ready and today can use his ten fingers to produce healthy food, that he needs some promoter. He knows best what he's willing to do and that these products are far more quality than anything that's being put through the import lobby on our market, long before our peasant gets to produce it with his sweat, but you don't care about that. I think of the Government, because it has such a relationship, according to agriculture, and to everyone else, it's still as much as-so-healthy agricultural sectors, and it's not enough to just adopt an agreement on the textile industry, the resolution, as it's already called, we haven't challenged it and we haven't even voted against it – and what you're going to export, when the market is buried with everything and everything, or with textile products that are far below the quality of our domestic product, which is unable to stimulate by the state to recover and develop. Just remember how powerful and strong our textile industry was, go from Gornji Milanovac, through Ivanjica to Vranja, you will see that it is now misery and misery, from Kragujevac and the company "December 22nd", no programs, no contracts with the government, no help, no chances of them recovering and getting on healthy feet. At the time of the most severe sanctions when it was already known that NATO would bomb us, Zoran Krasic, as Minister of Trade and our then Minister of Industry, signed contracts on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with our textile industry. The textile industry "December 22nd" from Kragujevac and many other positive shifts were recovered at the time, when sanctions were and when it was almost impossible to operate. Now you have no interest, no idea, except for the possibility of giving these lobbyists, who go on the market, do whatever they want, recover the economy, let alone export anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22365	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS, Miss Natasa Jovanovic gave a detailed explanation as to why the SRS proposed that this member be deleted. What I would have to ask as a question to the drafter of this budget, as it is the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion, should follow here a report on what results have been achieved in the current year. On the other hand, MPs should also hear the proposal in relation to division 31, position 423, relating to services under contract. The contract provides for 17 million dollars. We're looking for an answer to where the $17 million goes, which favors? Can we consider it or even, in recent times, accept whether these are escort services? If they are services, it must be explained what these services are related to, to be specific. Second, travel costs, then, running and occasional maintenance, material, wages. The SRS has objections and therefore we believe that a more detailed report should have been submitted here and explain what this is all about. In particular, we see through this budget a number of illogicalities, that huge taxpayers' resources are being spent, when it comes to purposes, such as special services and contracted services. In this explanation of the whole budget, there is not enough convincing interpretation of what such funds are going to. Special services or contract services go up to 40 million. In the current year special services are in the budget of 42 billion dinars. For 42 billion dinars you can buy 12,000 mid-class tractors to bow down to farmers this year. Farmers in our country have been working so hard on agricultural land and they are producing food for us. I guess these taxpayers, our farmers, deserve to be helped by the state and given one-time help. The funds, the agencies, the administration that was multiplied, if we had in the administration last year 11,000, or in 2000, on October 5, we had 11,000 employees in the administration, if we now have 33,000, that's too much. He's going to a lot of administration. For example, budget rationalisation should be done to the extent that it is clear and that it is known to everyone who grants donations to this budget. That means taxpayers need to know where their money goes. If such money is mainly directed where it is not necessary, and it is essential, above all, for agriculture, for people with disabilities, for pensioners and for the socially vulnerable, we believe that this budget should suffer a number of changes and that is why I have proposed on behalf of the SRS that this provision and this member be deleted, and that this amendment be adopted by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22367	Anyone else want a word from the MP group? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22368	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Markovic, do you know what a lustration is? Have you heard of lustration? The lady who sat before you in the seat of the President of the Assembly in the last meeting was digging herself a pit. She suggested, and yesterday with her position she unequivocally showed what was more important to her, that what was more important to her was what her mentors, above all these current political mentors, the former president of the parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, spoke to her, and at the time that he was also her boss, and that the DS pendant, was established this commission that I am asking for to be abolished and to take away these funds, to be used, because it is impossible when she was not even formed, so-called. Commission for the Studies of Liability for Human Rights Infringement, i.e. Lustration. What's amazing is that the DSS MPs will also vote for this item in the budget. If you do, gentlemen, I am speaking to you as many of you from this political party in the voting day for not accepting this amendment, then you are absolutely the same as Natasa Micic. It doesn't make any difference. If she is with her 'political idea', because there is no idea, there is only issuing and selling the interests of the state and the people, as many as there are in one van or pickup, then with her engagement above all DS, she has made it form, that is to say, to establish a legal commission like this, with strong opposition from the SRS, which has never begun to work, if it was then advocated by Hiber, Gašo Knezevic, Natasa Micic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Goran Vesić and all the speakers of that yellow coalition, then it is impossible for you today, in the voting day, to accept that this and this commission still exists, and to say that you are different. Isn't it enough for you to have an anti-constitutional emergency, which is Natasa Micic and who, one day by the letter of the Constitution and the law, will have to answer for it. Not only her, but all those who were then in power, ossion and boasto, violating the human and fundamental rights of Serbian citizens, as well as over 12,000, which was established by the Defence and Security Committee, the Subcommittee, which dealt with the issue of the notorious "Sabbe" action and the disenfranchisement of people. Isn't it enough for you today that it is the state that should not only care about the position of its compatriots in the gathering centre for Serbs in the evil Hague tribunal, and isn't it enough that the Constitutional Court of Serbia has been quick to say that it hastily to put aside the Help Act, you've been silent about all this and nominated by the Hague villains, but you want to continue from the Serbian citizens' budget, who live on the edge of misery and poverty, to force and finance, above all, some kind of lustration commission, or allegedly human rights violations. Where's the morale? Where is the basic principle of respect for the rights of Serbian citizens to tell you that they are sick and tired of being harassed, that you take from one who can hardly earn and scrape the end of tomorrow to feed the children and buy bread and milk, money to give in a budget item for a commission that has not been set up, which should primarily be dealt with by the competent state authorities, not by such a commission, by breaking the Constitution and the law by those who were in power and who did all of this in the period 2000 to 2003. I can't understand you. There is no way that you can make a clear distinction between you and those who were protagonists of this dark time and sunflowers for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. How do you do that without accepting that there is such an item and that you still have that law that established this famous commission? If you look back at what the Dossov authorities were doing, if you look at how some of them behave today and, above all, those who remain in the justice functions of DOS, who violate all norms and the judiciary and the positive legal regulations, then you should really be ashamed that you intend to put a single dinar in a budget item called this commission. Why didn't you ask yourself what position the president of our party is in, the biggest party in Serbia and how his basic human rights are violated by the UN tribunal, that he has been completely isolated on several occasions, without being able to hear from his closest family and his associates, in what state are the Serbian officers and generals that you have extradited to The Hague tribunal and made various deals, in what state are Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija? Do you care about their human rights? Why didn't you ask yourself how children live in those villages that we visited and that I mentioned yesterday, do they have electricity, do they have basic working conditions, how their teachers and teachers educate them? Where is your responsibility for the situation in Serbia, for today's most endangered? No, this is how you confirm that Natasa Micic, who is as popular in the electoral body as the most notorious enemies of the Serbian people, was right, along with Cedomir Jovanovic and the entire DS, which suggested that something like this be formed and waved at us, who are the most moral and people with impeccable political and all kinds of biography on the political scene and that he allegedly threatens this kind of commission. It's something no one in Serbia can accept. Maybe that's what you think. I was just talking about the 50-million-dollar Export Agency. Now you say -- that's the next item, the amendment, 550 dinars, it's nothing. One single dollar to take from the poor citizens of Serbia, and you don't protect millions, because you know they live on the edge of poverty and poverty, because you're making worse laws, it's a big Greota and, above all, on your political responsibility. As for your conscience, question her, if there's anything left of it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22369	Here you go, Mr. Krasic, about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22370	I will try to explain a little bit in a different way than Miss Jovanovic, this amendment regarding this position is intended for the Lustration Commission. What's this about? (Velimir Simonovic, from the post: Not the Lustration Commission. )......................................................................................................... to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations. I'm sorry, and you were an MP here when this Law was passed and you know that this procedure that questioned the responsibility of some people who were involved in politics or were at the most responsible state functions, and not only in responsible state functions, is something called lustration. This was promoted in Serbia as some democratic fluid that comes particularly into expression when tectonic disorders of the legal-political system occur, when one system moves on to another system, by definition, which is called democratic. Here we had the opportunity to be engrossed with elaborates, starting with Mrs. Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic's book, which stood at the head of it and was a adviser to Natasa Micic and who pushed it through. One law has been passed. I don't want to go into the details of that law, since we're also in this room, I think it was in 2003, some summer moon, during the state of emergency, it seems to me that it wasn't even a TV broadcast, quite a story. You must know, before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, a procedure requiring the assessment of the constitutionality of such a law. I do not dispute the fact that in some former socialist republics there is something similar, but far away from those solutions that Mrs Vodnelic has put in place. I will not burden you with the many provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and other conventions relating to human rights. This law, which, unfortunately, two and a half years after its adoption, we also talk about, even in the way we just mention it, is really contrary to the fundamental freedoms and rights that are guaranteed. I'm not getting into it. We're calling the Constitutional Court why he didn't answer. Also, we've launched an initiative in the Assembly, maybe I'll make a mistake, have the president correct me, whether once or twice, that bill of ours to stop the law, I think it was proposed by an emergency procedure, and that we voted once, and you didn't want to put it on the agenda. I doubt it, I think it was one more time, but it doesn't matter for this story either. I can understand this argument that the government has written in its opinion on this amendment. The government simply says there's a law, and that's what's prescribed, and that's what we keep it in some budget position. I now draw your attention to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, who is operationally doing this job, is not consistent. I'll take one example, the simplest example that will make it clear to everyone. The Republic Election Commission is not foreseen in the draft budget. President, I don't know if these amendments have been corrected. (President: Yes. If it's fixed, it's a different situation. When the government proposed, it did not predict RIK at all. I'm not talking about RIK because of the cost of the election, that someone doesn't realize it now, although we want snap elections, but it's not the point of my story – if you're planning the funds, there's going to be a choice; if you didn't plan it, then you're not going to vote. The point is that there is one state authority and that some funds must be planned for the current business of that authority. If this amendment makes it right, then that's fine. Unfortunately, there is no minister, but I must draw attention to the fact that it is not good for something that has been fixed, by law, by obligation, that there is no position in the budget. I'm not entering the technique, whether it's a division, economic classification, transfer funds or another technical solution. We have in this case had a situation for the Ministry to say – we know that there is a legal obligation to RIK, we have not put it in here, but we will cover it all from the current and permanent budget reserve. It can't be like that. It is known what the reserves are for: for something unplanned, for something that is subsequently established, the subsequent law establishes some kind of obligation. What exists as a legal obligation, it must stand in the budget and not be in the current reserve. We are fully aware of these facts – you have some laws, something obliges you. I need to draw your attention to one more thing. All of our amendments together make up one continent that meets the conditions laid down by the Budgetary System Act, on the consistency of the revenue and expenditure sides, by positions, by divisions, by economic classifications. (President: Time. ) Also, this concrete intervention on this amendment satisfies this case individually, this condition prescribed by law. In the end, by voting for this amendment, nothing is disturbed in the budget, there is room for some means to have another purpose, but it is also an invitation for all of us to put an emergency law on the agenda on the end of the law that regulates the issue of lustration, because it is unnecessary for us. That's what the GSS guys invented to actuate in future political competition elections. Take care of it. It's not good that there's this. The best judge in politics is people and elections. Let him, as sovereign, decide on these matters, not so unconstitutional and laws that are contrary to Europe, where you say we're going.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22371	Thank you. As you assumed, and I informed you, under this function, citizens will not spend a single penny. He also informed Mr Krasic in part, and I informed him, just like the amendment, as you assumed, resolved the financing of RIK. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22372	Mr. President, as representative of the Serbian Parliament, or the first among the equals, you should not say such things. There are laws good and bad, lex specialis and general. But the laws that are written should be respected. One of the laws is the budget law, so if the budget provides for 500,000 dinars for some commission invented by Natasa Micic and which says the most important are people, then make up a Lustration Commission that needs citizens of the Republic of Serbia to take away basic civil rights, which is to choose and be chosen! There's a commission of some kind that envisions 500 thousand dinars. If this Commission is to meet and put out its costs, or it will have to be paid to Natasha Micic for the expenses it has, and travels I see well with Hashim Thaci, etc. Or the finance minister will have to break the law. The SRS has handed over...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22373	I'm sorry to interrupt, but you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, and I've just informed Mr. Krasic publicly, exactly what you said. So there's no reason, no injured Rules of Procedure. In the context of a session under article 27, I only gave further notice to Mr Krasic. I'm ready to give it to you too. No more than that. Of course the laws have to be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22374	You just said that a dollar won't be spent on that Commission, and the budget law says there are 500,000 dinars for that Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22375	That's right, that item is foreseen. Be kind, there's no reason for a pay phone to give notice, I've given an exact notice, which is my duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22376	So someone's gonna have to break the law, or whether the finance minister or someone else, but they're gonna have to. If there are items in the budget you could have written a dinar, so okay, it's not a big expense. You could have accepted the amendment of the SRS and there would have been no problem. You could have also accepted the proposal and put it on the agenda, that this Commission and that crazy law would cease to apply, and you won't. You're aware that the law needs to be broken and you're still publicly ordering it from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22377	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go, Mr. Sluzzard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6, Section 37, Function 510, to be deleted. You can see that all our amendments want to point to rationality and domestic budget spending. As the Serbian Radical Party, we have submitted the most amendments to this budget and we are the only ones defending our amendments to this budget, which you have designed. You'll certainly vote for him, and we won't. You didn't even want to comment on our amendments in the interest of improving and quality spending this budget. This 487-billion-dollar budget of yours is meant to keep you in power for a few months, and then it's known. And the world's donors began to bypass you and this budget of yours. We have advocated that this division for agriculture be greater and that it has a function to improve agriculture and to improve the development of our village faster, so that these 42 million that you have foreseen for the Recycling Agency goes in that direction. And that agency is actually a set of your people who need to spend that 42 million. Spending these pairs now you comment, like, higher levels of information and action, education and who knows what all expressions are, just to spend that money. The spending of these pairs is also fueled by the outflow of capital from our country, in a strange way. These include various companies from Slovenia, which are now opening up recycling companies. They are now in one perfidious way, and they do so in a commercial sense, advertise on every corner, on every skyscraper, on every intersection and everywhere they see their companies. They will also use these 42 million to recycle our waste in their euro. We know you've passed this waste management law. What you brought in was done for you and your interests, not for real interest. We're against all agencies, we're against management, now the agencies are starting to transform into administrations, so you actually just want to direct these people's money from the budget towards your direction of movement. You're not going to target those 42 million to schools, but you're going to use those funds to educate the collection of these wastes? So our teachers know, our people know how this old junk is collected, they don't need any special money from this department. The money should be directed towards education, but the minister has given himself the right to manage this budget as a two-thirds minister. The whole budget is questionable for use. The majority of intentions are determined by Minister Dinkic and his ministry and that is the essence of this budget. You broke the state, you destroyed all attributes of the state, no more military, no more education, no more health care, no more economy, no more agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture said that we and the cattle would join the European Union together. That's how you treat our country. Money needs to be used on purpose, not to pour our budget into private pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22379	Thank you, Mr. Služarevich. On the same amendment, it is the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22380	Mr. President, I will take this opportunity to take advantage of this amendment that applies specifically to this recycling agency, which is relatively long ago, there has been a need and what it has to do, how to improve this job and to potentiate the importance of secondary raw materials to protect the environment and also to ensure some efficiency, above all I mean the economy. We've never submitted amendments to this agency before. We have now submitted an amendment, just to draw attention to both the government and the public, that with this mode of formation of the para-state authorities, which are these agencies, simply lost the basic thread and responsibility of the ministries and government as the authorities of the state administration, which are the most responsible for implementing the laws and in general for the organisation and way of functioning in this country. You see, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, which is split 30, I'm not going to repeat a lot of the views that you've already had the opportunity to hear, simply from what's written follows as if someone in the government said, let's form something that could be a transfer for some means, because if you look at the source of the funds that the Agency is going to use, you'll see 276 million and 752 thousand dinars as donations from abroad. If you look at what goes out of the budget, it's over six million. What are these funds for? Look at millions of 790 thousand are some fixed costs, travel costs 810 thousand dinars, services contracted by 7 million and 28 thousand, material 640 thousand and donations and transfers to other levels of government 276 million. In doing so, we are also told that there is a surplus in local self-government, that local self-government no longer has the strength of central government, starting with the price of residential and public services, of the possibility of developing its own path, etc. I would remind you that something similar happened in 1988 and 1999, it was not institutionalized, but at that time some of those who boycotted had mayors and presidents of municipalities in some places, so they made arrangements for local self-government with the provinces in Germany, Switzerland, etc. providing funds and showing themselves to be successful in relation to the central government. This is about the transmission of some funds from abroad for the need of no place, but more of the ones from abroad. I will not say on purpose what city it is, but the representatives of the government of a state have come and said – you know, we are obliged to invest something in you as a help. We don't care what it's for, we need you to give us some papers and get into a three-year arrangement, and we need to give it because the Americans told us to, come in with something, make some communication, pay for something, we destroyed them during the war. We really don't need an agency for these things, a team before local self-government, in such a bad Law on Local Self-Government and a bad Law on Local Elections enjoys the government's favor and the ability to develop on their own and even to question its own policies at the level of the city and municipalities and macroeconomic stability. Remember, look at Belgrade, look at other places, see how politics are being run and how infrastructure policies are being run. Foreign Investment Agency, please what is this Milosavljevic Chamber of Commerce for? This is the only chamber of commerce formed by law, which is not on the principle of volunteering. All businessmen must be members. The one at the head of the Chamber of Commerce is a consultant for the economy of the President of the Republic, driving together, etc. Let me remind you, there used to be a consultant for economic issues with our embassies. Once our Chamber of Commerce, especially in larger places, from Kuala Lumpur to New York, had its own commercial representations that co-operated. There used to be 3-4 foreign trading houses through which 90% of the foreign trade business went. Now the state needs, under free market conditions, to form its own agency. Of course we're against it. Furthermore, the Agency for Energy Consensus, I've known little of these papers since the beginning of it, from those bulbs over some donation from America, what does this agency have to do with us – to teach us how to spend less electricity, to carry out some evaluations, to suggest something? Please, that agency can be financed by Vuk Hamovic with change. Why would the state now finance something that would contribute to Hamovic and Lazarevic and even the initiative has been taken over by a para-state body, the next idea of Vuk Hamovic to create a stock exchange in that building of "redcaps". Guys, what are we doing? Does the state have to have those costs? It's not because it's a surplus, so there's, you know, it's too big for us to make up something now so that what we're going through doesn't get to the ground, it's to get caught and get to his hands. In that sense, we criticize you. If you say savings, purposeful use of public income, if you are calling for us to have some obligations due to these borrowings, etc., if we are aware of the facts, and probably everyone is aware that we are not satisfied with this degree of production, we are not satisfied with this degree of growth in industrial production, we are not satisfied with this organization, you know how expensive the funds and the people involved in the economy are, sometimes they think about whether they are going into economic activity at all. That's why we have submitted these amendments to a large number of members of these agencies, to distract you. Don't dissipate the state authorities to create a "clause" for some of the chosen ones, because everything and everything is going through these items.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22381	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does any other MPs' group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. Just to let you know that the constitutional session of the Committee on Local Self-Government will be scheduled in one hour, for tomorrow, at 1:00 in the blue salon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on Serbia's 2006 budget, which reads: "In Article 6, I split 38 and function 430 are deleted." Practically, since this division and this member are related to the Agency and the financing of the Agency for Energy Efficiency, the SRS programme, and so far we have repeated several times, we are against the establishment of agencies that are founded for everything and everything. We think it's expensive, unnecessary and not an efficient part of the state's apparatus. No agency that has been established so far has given some expected results in its work, so it is unnecessary to single out specific budgets for the Agency's work, thereby increasing costs and such expensive state administrations, which you yourselves say is expensive. It's only one in a series of budgets planned, although you are constantly calling for savings, but it seems to refer to other things rather than agencies, the People's offices of the Democratic Party, to the non-governmental sector that you finance with both hands and hat. I have to remind you that over the past few years, we've had this kind of non-domestic behavior, the money spent on everything and everything except what the state needs, come to the point that we have a foreign debt of $15 billion, we're credited with getting us into a $700 and a billion payment a year, that the losses of the economy are over $10 billion. Also, we have a problem that nearly 50,000 companies are facing bankruptcy, which is about half a million people who don't know what's going to happen to them. Also, the money we received from privatisation – 1,300 of the best companies, untraceable, companies that employed a number of people in the 1,300 companies, only decreased the number of people who are employed in all of this. We're continuing the policy that's been going on for the last four years, now five years, so next year we're going to talk about selling out the strategic branches that exist. Like you used to sell cements and sugars, tobacco industry, water sources, and now you're getting ready to rip apart and sell out NIS, our quarrys, and we have a situation that we don't have any more of our own in the country. You keep going as you have so far as to produce and fabricate these affairs, we have had: National Savings, Sugar, Ericson, vests, JAT, ZTP and everything else that is going on, which is already known in the people and what you are doing very well. Practically, since I'm talking about agencies, it would be very reasonable to say what we're getting from that agency. So, the Energy Efficiency Agency, the money that's planned for it, is worth about 62 or 63 million dinars. I have to tell you what's scheduled. Therefore, there are around 7,700,000 dinars for salaries and additions of employees and social contributions. We also have contract services and specialized services worth 38 million dinars. We also have subsidies and public financial enterprises worth 11 million dinars, we have machines and equipment of 1,200,000 dinars. Somehow every year you draw huge money for machines and equipment for subsidies to some non-financial enterprises, and mostly money is spent and there is nothing. Mr Krasic asked very specifically what this agency should do, what it serves, whether to teach us how to maintain such a favourable price of electricity as you have imposed on us in the last five years. What else can he teach us? How to spend our electricity we have or how to deal with Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic that they spend our electricity, sell it, and we pay for it. So the purpose of any proposal would practically mean, by setting up an agency and funding, by seizing out about 60 million dinars, we get that and that and then we say, practically, it is positive, it's not positive, so if that's a positive thing, the SRS wouldn't criticise it. This way we have a huge cost of about 60 million and without a frame, without any precise data giving where the funds will be spent, and we have enough experience with you, we know that they will spill into someone's pockets, hire certain staff of your parties, let's call –cadros, known experts who brought us here. The SRS is asking for this to be erased and I expect MPs who disagree with our money to be poured into private pockets, to support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22383	On the same amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22384	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the desire of certain authorities and ministries to make things easier for themselves, so they form an agency or administration that will do a part of their job. I understand, but when it comes to the Agency for Energy Efficiency, it is the question of the purpose of the existence of such an agency. It explains why the government refuses this amendment. Therefore, for the reasons set out above, the Agency is set up by the Energy Act, as a special organisation for which the work of funds must be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. However, the agency, not only exists from that "Official Messenger" number 84/04, but it exists a little longer. It was established by the government regulation of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 and spent significant resources back then. If you look at the cost specification that stands here, you can see that the only costs, employee costs, some services again, are specialized services. But who spends at all, or who gets the money from specialized services, which is one agency's own income, since we have our own income here. Whether public undertakings are paying some service to the Energy Efficiency Agency, so it has those resources, but these funds (in the amount of 38 million dinars) are being poured into some services under contract and specialised services. What does this agency do? So, what's the purpose of the Agency? Whether citizens, as MP Stevica Dedjanski said, who submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS, learn how to spend electricity or to deal with balancing between production, energy consumption, the need for population, economy, etc. Until a few weeks ago, we had some kind of EPS announcement that it took electrical energy to collect again. The question arises whether this agency plays a role in those strong reasons why electricity was accumulated in 2001, 2002, and beyond, were the reasons why EPS was used for an unprecedented robbery of Serbia, is this the reason for the existence of such an agency? The fact is that the abuse was in the EPS, in the NIS around imports, i.e. exports of oil and petroleum products, it was a lot-oil, around imports of electricity. When someone made the wrong bill or misjudged it, I don't know who, whether Vuk Hamovic or Vojin Lazarevic and the electricity that was intended for Bulgaria were not delivered, they delivered it to Serbia and we paid it more expensively than we can produce it. And to make things worse, the batteries we had in our hydroelectric power plants we had to fire over the dam so by chance which cent, which dollar, those two gentlemen didn't lose. I do not want to mention that in these dubious transactions concerning the transaction of oil and oil derivatives imports and exports (so, the pot-oil that was placed through the EPS) and the electricity EPS lost about half a billion euros. That money is compensated through an increase in electricity prices. There is no argument here, but that electricity must be collected, because its price for citizens is non-economic, that prices in countries in the environment are much higher, that it costs so much and so much one kilowatt of electricity abroad, so why not here, that the state has to subsidise it, etc. They were all stories and colorful lies for little children. The fact is, one good part of the money that affects the cost of kilowatts is the salaries of employees, so those who work in the sector in the European Union countries, and you want us to look up to those countries, where they have salaries, two or more thousand euros, means two or worse. With us, it ranges from 300, 350 euros to 600 or 700 euros, and these are the ones that are the most responsible, who work in various power plants. The question is what about that difference, because we have already reached the price that is in the European Union countries, but you are looking at the lowest item since you have formed a block-tariff. When it comes to electricity and electricity bill, what about that promise you made in the 2000 election campaign that TV subscription won't be paid through an electricity bill? It's one weapon you used against the SRS, which wasn't responsible for it, but in one particular way you paid for the TV subscription. RTS has been on the budget all these years. You have passed a new law, and as far as we know, the EPS already sets out the censuses of the owner of the numbers, and it seems to me that since next year, TV subscription will be applied to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So much for that. When you need to come to power, you are able to promise everything, not to remind you that you promised (just you from G17 plus) that you need to cut administrative fees, that you need to cut taxes. But since you came to power, you've been doing the opposite. And not that you did not reduce, but you did not leave at the price at which the taxes and taxes were paid when you came to power, but you did increase it, and then boast of the surplus. What surplus? Is that surplus the skin of Serbian citizens you skin when you collect taxes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22385	The 6th amendment was submitted to already-born MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22386	There's no Dinkic, and I thought I'd complain to him because of him these days, I've had significant inconveniences. When the other day, here, in an ironic tone, he said that Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic and I are his friends, people look at me so suspiciously and say – Mrs Radeta, it is not possible, you are honest and honest people, from where Dinkic should be a friend to you. I had to explain to everyone that Dinkic's friends Hamovic, Lazarevic, Labus, Karic and other less or more famous thieves from Serbia. I guess he'll come, I'll tell him that too. As regards the amendment to Article 7 submitted by counterpart Nemanja Sarovic, Article 7 refers to the transfer funds and the 2006 budget provides for those funds to be totalling 55 billion 375 million dinars and revenue from additional organ activities totalling 2 billion 144 million 261,000 dinars shown in column 7 etc. The amendment, Nemanje Sarovic, says that instead of the estimated amount for the transfer funds, of 55,375,000, it should cost 69,955,212.000 dinars. The government has not accepted this amendment and we are surprised. It was explained that the amendment is rejected for the reason that the proposed amendment is contrary to Article 26(3). The budget system law, which states that the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must also contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditures by the same amount. This argument is not right. If the amendments were to be followed further, it would be seen that this is fully respected and will be seen in the next amendments. Now, if Minister Dinkic were here, I am almost convinced that he would accept this amendment, given that I also heard his opinion today about defence ministers both Tadic and Davinic. Our basic reason, the basic motive why we submitted this amendment, was that the transfer funds (and these are precisely related to the funds spent on the state union of Serbia-Montenegro) should be increased, given the position of the Serbia-Montenegro state union. It's thought of a material position. Remember last year, we commented on the last budget and tried to convince both the assembly majority and the minister that the budget must account more for the material position of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. Of course, you did not listen to us, and today we have the situation in the army we have, or we do not have an army today. We have several thousand recruits, who spend three or four months in training, two months after that are soldiers serving regularly. In that period, 20, 30 times they come home. So, a completely demoted army. Why is that? The degradation, or destruction of the army, was launched by Boris Tadic when he served as military minister. Remember, I'll remind you, if you forgot, that this is probably a specificity as well as much that in Serbia during that transition period was such a special phenomenon, that Tadic as a military minister had various NATO advisers and I don't know what kind of foreigners. The military ministry mostly spoke English, and it is an army of Serbia-Montenegro. A lot of terrible things have happened. At the time, Tadic retired all the officers, all the congratulatory ones, especially those who fought in Kosovo and Metohija or some other parts when the JNA Army participated in some military operations. So all such congratulatory Tadic has driven out of the army, surrounded himself with some of his friends, party colleagues, which is amazing that the military is being marked partyically, but that is the case in Serbia-Montenegro. After him came Davinic, the gentleman who passed through the G17 here, but was a member of this party, the party proposed him as minister and represented the party as minister. I don't think it's nice for his colleagues to give him up like that. He did, probably, I can't say, I'm a lawyer and I take care of everything I say... There has been some information about an alleged large affair, some hundreds of thousands of euros. The public has been informed that due to this big affair in custody, Mile Dragic, who has paid some 300 euros for hotel bills, car repairs, etc. So, is this going to end up on that people's "breathing mountain was born a mouse", was it a way for you to get rid of your colleague for some other reasons, whether he resented something personal to Mladjan Dinkic, whether they had not shared a well possible commission, etc. It's something that the final case will be given by the competent judicial authorities and I, unlike the other colleagues, will not declare the guilty before the judicial verdict is passed by the court. But in any case, the fact is that Davinic did nothing good in the military. Now he may have been chosen by the worst of these three, the Stankovic you will hear about. You've heard a lot from the MPs of the SRS. Our claim that he was a close associate of Carla del Ponte, that he had asked Carla del Ponte to accept this function, that he had promised to communicate and surrender General Mladic, etc., he had denied it all, and then an hour after he was elected minister said that he was actually lying when he denied that he was true that he had been talking with Karl del Ponte, etc. Dale, you're going to hear a lot more about this man, I'm just afraid it's going to be too late for the Serbia-Montenegro Army, especially since there have been very strange tones here today since yesterday's session showing how much unity and where the DS has shown its true face. Of course, it's not the first time. To remind me that DS, or Boris Tadic, has been holding back the adoption of the Constitution that has been talked about so much. That DS, or Boris Tadic, violated the unity of state and national when he urged Serbs to go to the Cyprus elections. And finally, yesterday, Boris Tadic, through his MPs, told the Serbian public that Kosovo and Metohija are not the most important issue in Serbia, that the economy, economic issues, is more important than that. We have been discussing the budget today for the third day, and this is probably the most important economic law for the next year for the Republic of Serbia. They're not here today to discuss it, although I heard that Vlahovic on a TV show last night say the same thing. I expected them to come here today to discuss the budget, but they don't care. So, this amendment should be accepted, because this is really a way, in addition to all the problems I have raised, which I was talking about when it comes to the Serbia-Montenegro Army, to at least improve the material position of the military. You know very well, I assume you have family, among friends, neighbors, etc. Guys who serve a military term, of course, I don't mean those who wash diapers in maternity homes, but I mean the real guys who really want to serve the army and go to that army. There's a catastrophic situation, from the fact that the malts have nothing to eat, that they're very unquality food, that there's no control, that there's no proper medical examinations, that the colleagues know better, that they're mostly serving a military deadline, that they know they used to be proper medical examinations, that these checks depended on whether or not a young man would join the army. There's no such thing today. Today, drug addicts, mental patients, etc. are also enlisted in the military. All of this is done in order to lose maximum confidence in the military, to create as much uncertainty as possible and to get the impression that, in fact, Serbian citizens do not want to join the military, and that later you have an excuse for letting you know that you are obviously not interested in the military and the defence of the country, that one day and definitely abolish the army, although today it does not exist, but how much there is. I've been listening these days, I don't think they're unique stories, comments from very concerned parents who have sons standing up for the army. These people mostly say -- we couldn't wait for our son to join the army, we were looking forward to it, but now the situation is that we're afraid to send our son into the army. They're just people in a moral dilemma. What they see and listen to is something that scares them, which is the opposite of what is traditional in them, which is the desire, the need and the joy of having a son join the army. So that is what is present among Serbian citizens. Serbs traditionally like uniforms, love their army. No matter how hard you try, you can't totally kill it in the Serbian people, but you really do do do the best you can and believe that the citizens of Serbia will never and can't forgive you. The kind of ridicule they've heard here today is really inadmissible. If someone said someone was fighting for the European Union in the Caymans, it's really inadmissible. It hurt me personally, because my late grandfather Stevo fought at the Kajmachalan, but he fought for the great Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, accept this amendment for the sake of those young generations, for the sake of those young men who want to serve in the SCG Army, who want to be soldiers. Let them at least have something to eat there, warm themselves up in those barracks, have something to cover themselves with. Take care of it. You destroy the earth from all sides, you bite it like mice on each side, but you won't be long. So please accept this amendment. We are convinced that the 2007 budget will be discussed by a different assembly majority and that a much better budget will then be brought to the attention of, among other things, the SCG Army, and by then, I wish the minister were there, and I might convince him, and if not, once more colleagues, vote for this amendment, you will get a better budget, you will at least get a more patriotic budget than you intend to bring.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22387	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment asking to raise funds for the salaries of members of the SCG Army. That, according to the government's proposal, is somewhere at 14.2 billion dinars. We in the SRS have suggested that it be about 18.5 billion dinars, because we believe that the material position of an army member is extremely difficult. We see that there are funds from what the minister says, boasting of the surplus. If this is not going to increase from surplus, these funds in a mass of funds can be abolished (as my colleagues in the SRS suggest) by a number of agencies, offices, seduces etc., where all citizens of Serbia are needlessly spent and find a little more resources for members of the SCG Army. We in the Serbian Parliament do not often have a chance to talk about our army, and there is also how we talk and the topic to talk about. Simply, the army is at the level of the state community. That's why I want to say a few words. What's most accurate, I'd say our military failed to defeat NATO's air force, but it managed to defeat a NATO infantry called DOS. Here, it's been going on for five years. With the definitive destruction of the SCG Army, the "expert" for these affairs, famous Defence Minister Boris Tadic, today the president of the Republic, who even introduced NATO spies to the Ministry of Defence, and the final blow was struck by Defence Minister Prvoslav Davinic, who is even a schooled destroyer of the SCG Army. He's known for his numerous affairs, which is why he's finally been replaced. Even you couldn't tolerate it anymore. That's when you abused the state institutions for some of your intra-partisan problems. I mean the game G17 plus. With this draft budget and the resources you have proposed for the Army, you show your relationship with the military and its members – small wages. It seems to me that there's a higher salary growth everywhere than in the Army. You deliver troops to The Hague as they ask, so the question arises who will want to fight for this country ever again. We hope it will never be necessary, but if it is, there will be no people who will be ready to fight for this country. You've also invented some kind of civilian service of the SCG Army, where tens of thousands of young men, according to the latest data, are serving, if you can say so, in hospitals, museums, theatres, etc. It's supposed to be an objection to conscience. If you were to change their decision a little bit, so if they really have an objection to conscience, instead of in a weapons barracks, to serve in a barracks but with some of the means to work, let's say, a shovel, a hack, etc. You'd see that the number would have decreased a lot and come to that reasonable extent where it really was an objection to conscience. This is truly misused maximum, but the problem is that it seems to me that your intention was to be such a consequence of your shameful decision. It used to be a shame for someone who didn't go to the army, and today it looks the other way around. I therefore suggest that you accept this amendment, to change the state's attitude towards the military, at least in this way to the extent that the Serbian Parliament discusses the military through the draft budget law, because whoever does not feed his army will feed someone else. So there's no saving on this plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22389	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. I ask all MPs to respectfully speak of the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the army deserves to be spoken of with respect, but those who want to present budgets for the military seem to have no respect for our army. This budget-separated clause is as if it was written by a new minister who says that by 2007, there will be no obligation for our recruits. Is it possible for Serbia and Serbs to run out of army, is it possible that someone will deny the right to serve the army? The Serbs have always had an army and the Serbs will always have an army. When they were under Turkish occupation, Serbs had their own army, no matter what the Turks called it, but they freed the Serbian country, and today in the 21st century we try to abolish the army. First, in a way that young people who go there from recruiting centres don't pass certain systematic checks like they used to, but unfortunately, the military can go whoever they want without any medical and systematic examinations; so what happens is that we hear almost every month tragic cases of a soldier killing himself or someone killing someone, and all of this is designed to tear apart an army, to tear apart the pillar of our country. And so these funds that you've predicted are very small, very small, and what the new military minister predicts we'll have a professional army, I don't know how much it will count, but I do know one thing that this professional army certainly can't replace our recruits who willingly and heartily want to go and defend our country. When we discussed the Kosovo and Metohija Resolution yesterday, there were plenty of speeches to defend the Serbian state and we should defend it in Kosovo and Metohija, which we Serbianly did. But I wonder who will defend the state of Serbia if we don't have an army. If we have a politicized police force working in Serbia today, should we also bring the army down to that border to be a professionally-paid army and to have it politicized or dependent on who will be in power and who will finance it?- I'm sorry. I don't know if you have any clear data. But in view of the reproductive population growth in the state of Serbia where the trend in growth is minus 3%, and on the other hand we have a growth in Kosovo minus 23.8%, it does not take great mathematics to calculate this, so that for the next 50 years, Serbs can happen to be a minority in their country. Instead of passing such laws that will increase our reproductiveity and population growth, we simply bring some laws to the expense of the army. Instead of doing it the other way around, to stimulate our soldiers, to improve the conditions, to modernise our army, our units, we go on to destroy the army more and more from day to day. I guess that was the job of those revolutionaries from October 5, 2000, and I guess they're doing it every day. Make sure that comes to an end. You who do this one day will hit your head on your own when you realize that our country is in danger of just the ones we're emancipating today, in which we're investing today, and these are national minorities. For God's sakes, they are threatened and the funds are regularly invested there, some agencies are being opened regularly, some round tables, it's all in the name of harmonising the law with the European Union, human rights violations, and we see that we are today having racist attacks on these very national minorities on Serbs, and unfortunately, we all remain silent. You keep politicians quiet, unfortunately, the Serbian Academy of Sciences, church and all. Why don't we organize round tables to see what's going on with these racist attacks on Serbs, start with Kosovo and finish with the north of Vojvodina. That's what we need to worry about and imagine well what we leave to our children and our grandchildren. I think this amendment submitted by Mr. Zankov should be accepted and that Minister Dinkic should have found the strength to accept this amendment to the SRS, because that would at least show the will that we aim to have a state, to have a pillar of state, which is an army.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22391	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22392	Dear People's MPs, I am obliged by the public in Serbia to remind that Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic has made it very clear that capital investments in the military will be three times bigger this year than before. Certainly, there is a possibility in the budget that I would vote for an increase and we are all responsible for defending our country. But because of the public, it should be known that on the one hand costs are being reduced in the military, and on the other hand we are increasing capital investment in equipment and weapons of the military.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22393	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 145 and 163 of Section 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Serbian Radical Party on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Since 2000 and until now, slowly but surely you have destroyed our army, especially when Mr Tadic was a minister, since then the military has lost all its qualities, which is to be prepared to defend the citizens of Serbia and Montenegro from a possible attack on our country. What Mr. Tadic was trying to do now is to try Mr. Dinkic, with this small allocation of funds for our army. Who's going to our army? Our children. And how to protect them rather than provide them with normal conditions, and with such a budget and little separation for the Army, our children are in an uninvited position. That's why our children avoid going to the military, which has never happened in Serbia's history, that they are slowly but surely boycotting the military because of the poor material condition. You're doing all this with the budget and with the Army to court the West. The more you court, the more they avoid you. That's what you're trying to do with our citizens, but that's not what the minister and the entire government of the Serbian citizen will do, because they know who you are and what you are. The only moment you're interested in is the police, you'll see it after the election, why you're interested in the police. It would be good for you to accept this amendment of mine, because in some ways it would help our children to serve their military service. You have no ear for the army or for our children, but that's why you and your best men. I know that "Godfather is not a button" and whenever the minister goes to the glory of the godfathers, he transfers under two, three million euros and finds them like this just in case. And in order not to transfer that money to his godmothers, I suggest that in Article 7, it split 65, function 210, economic classification 511, an amount of a billion 232 million substitutes by 6 billion and 903 million; an economic classification of 512, amounting to 2 billion 438 million to be replaced by 7 billion and 438 million, and with such separation it would most likely improve how much or so many situations in the military. Finally, for the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, I must point out that the same rhetoric serves as the 1990s, when you stick the SRS label against national minorities. I deny this and I can freely tell you that the SRS has more members who are other nationalities than all of you together. What you are doing will not scare the citizens of Serbia who are other nationalities and religions, especially us who are other nationalities, and we belong to the SRS. In all ways, we will fight against such phenomena. Now that you've seen that we have more than 40% of Serbia's citizens' support, in all ways you're trying to reduce the popularity of the SRS. This will not help you, because the citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of Serbia who are other nationalities and religions, do not believe you, but believe the SRS and at this point the only salvation they see in the SRS. You, as much as you care about national minorities – as much as you need for your political goals. That's your attitude towards national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22395	Thank you, Mr. Spaho. On the same amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's to see what the concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to improve the status of persons employed in the Army of the state union. According to the 2006 budget, funds are planned for the level of salaries now achieved and according to the number of employees from September 2005. Since the downsizing of the number of employees continues and forecasts another 2,000, there will be a real budget space for the increase in salaries in Vojsca during 2006. This reality is based on the fact that an additional reduction in the number of employees in Vojsca in October this year compared to September has already been made for 448 people, and the same has been done in November. So, the increase in the salary of members of the Army of the state community is that you're going to banish a number of people working in that army. Don't brag about how much funds are defined for the Army. The fact is that certain contributions have been increased both in terms of wages and in terms of work and equipment. The question arises whether this is really enough, since since October 5th, there has been an extremely incorrect relationship between the government and the military. Did any of you seriously wonder what's going on with the soldiers who are on military service? Why do such situations as suicides, accidents when performing certain tasks, etc? You're probably inclined to believe that these are affairs, that the guards saw a Hague fugitive, that someone broke in and killed them, etc. Maybe in some cases you can attribute it, I don't want to get into it, but it's quite certain there's been an increase in such cases in the military. There's been that before. That's all it wasn't written about, and at the very least you could say it wasn't true. What's the problem with that? What's causing that? Your policy towards the military led to the first beginning of a reduction, i.e. a reduction in the military deadline. By shortening the military deadline, the training period of the members sent for military service shall be reduced. It reduces the age of meeting an elder and a soldier, so the elder is not in a position to meet a soldier as a person and to send him on a mission, such as keeping watch with combat ammunition. Then there's a situation like that. In order for the matter to be even worse, you also allow the civilian service of the military deadline, so that the number of members who will serve in uniform is reduced. The choice of quality soldiers to carry out such tasks is reduced. Let's say there's some basis, because the SRS is against civilian military service, but let's get a little bit into it. What do you mean by civil service? We're going to have those who are in civil service and are changing diapers in maternity homes, working in kindergartens, parties, and they're about to do a little bit of fun parks in the city greenery, and that's it. It's your military service. Did it not occur to anyone, but when you give them that choice to choose whether to serve with a weapon or not, as counterpart Zankov said, give him a shovel and a hack and send him here to dig in Nemanja's street, there's the General Staff and bust his back for a year, so let's see if he'll serve a civilian. No, you made machetes out of soldiers. What further affects these unloving events? Low wages from members of the Army of the state community. They're undisturbed for work. Then you expect someone after all this work you've done with the Army of the State community will give you their children to guard them. It's very difficult, because so far, in some continuity in power, it's been up for five years, you've proven that you don't care about those children. By some miracle, you'd like the Army to disappear. That's what those who bombed the country in 1999 are after. They are in a certain way, although so powerful, sophisticated in various fields, survived defeats. Here is a way, on October 5th, DOS on the one hand, Defence Minister Boris Tadic and is headed for the destruction of the military after the revolution. There's Davinić, so you can talk whatever you want; he wasn't a member of G17 when he became minister, but later, when we saw he was a thief, we kicked him out of the party. He was your man, and you can justify yourself as much as you want. It's not that he's a thief, it's that he's a traitor. Did you ever wonder who you asked to be your secretary of defense? Are we going to pay for these satellites now, and who signed and who knows why and who knows why or why? The most important thing to write in this explanation is that the amendment is rejected for the reason that Article 26 of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The budget system law provides that the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must contain measures to introduce revenue or to reduce other expenditure by a second amount. I have already said today during the debate that all amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS are in accordance with the Budget System Act, Article 26(2). All amendments are tied to each other. You know exactly what position is being reduced, you know exactly what position is increasing. If you take some of that amendment to follow, you'll actually see that it's quite another draft budget. You don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22397	Do any other MPs want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk messenger, Milka Silaev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22398	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised to hear this discussion, as if the budget hadn't even been read, 55.4 billion are scheduled for the transfer, and the transfer covers the costs of Serbia-Montenegro, where the defence is covered. We're on the basis of the discussion we're hearing here, as if we're not living in Europe, as if we're about to have a war over our heads tomorrow. It is said that there is a need to increase resources for the military, why a civilian service deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in Europe, all of Europe rationalises military costs. Rationalisation is about civil service of the military and even the introduction of a professional army. What are we doing? Normally we go to these roads where our whole environment goes. Why would we be the exception? Where our environment goes, so do we. It's a tendency. For God's sake, we're part of Europe. I am absolutely sure that, as Slovenia is, as our former republics have tried to work, that we too will make such plans for the military. Please, the transfer of funds is 55.4 billion in the budget. So the Army is not excluded from these funds. This means that some balance in these funds will be made in that sense (the minister said and the gentleman mentioned) that there will be investments in capital investments in the military. Please, don't make a mistake among the people. It's not this government that seeks to reduce the country's defence and defence capabilities, but that ability in another way forms.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22399	Thank you, Mrs. Silaev. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: I was misread. ) Please, a little correctness, Mrs. Silaiev has made her point on this amendment and you will not be defending her. Also, she said she had a misunderstanding about the arguments she heard. It doesn't apply to the argument right now. I trust your explanation, and you believe Mrs. Silaiev's explanation, it's not correct. We're working on what's on the agenda. It's about amendments. Every MP of every member of Parliament has the right to speak by amendment, is that correct? If you think you're misread, I'll give you my word, but that doesn't lead the discussion in the right direction. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22400	It is not true that this speaker has been told that other countries in the environment are reducing their army. Have someone look at how many members of their army Croatia has, how many Romania has, how many Bulgaria has. The only one who was lagging behind was Macedonia. And they talked like you, ma'am, so we're not going to fight, we're for peace, so they gave NATO the border, the barracks, the cities, just haven't given the women yet, even though it was an attempt. How'd it go? Did they have aggression two and a half years ago? Did they have a terrorist attack on the territory of Macedonia? They were hoping NATO would protect them. Why didn't he protect them? What are you talking about? That we shouldn't have an army? What kind of integration are you talking about? That story about the professional army you're always talking about. Let's agree that we should have a professional army that can lead the role of a serious armed force, but no country currently has such an army in the world, no NATO member has such an army. So they have a certain part that's professional, but it's a good part that's on a certain military deadline. We can agree in concept that there is a professional army but that it takes a serious role that is entrusted with the Constitution. We don't have the money for it, the $28,000 you predicted, so you've got more cops than we'd have soldiers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22401	Thank you. Is there another group of MPs who want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Markovicu, has been deliberately and tendingly insulting all day long in a certain way to the dignity and the National Assembly and us MPs. If one of you is not hurt by the untruth and the twisting of facts and, above all, the words in a very clear order of things brought forth by the MPs of the SRS, I must tell you that it offends me as well as, I believe, all the honorable members and officers of the Army. Now I've received information from one of my friends who is 43 years old, the Colonel is an SCG Army, has 26 years of employment and a salary of 30,500 dinars, with two children, a tenant, an unemployed wife. My fellow Members, your salary as a MP is over 100,000 dinars, your other contributions may be 200,000 dinars, and I will not enter that, and ours, of course. I wouldn't have to have anything on me if I talked like that about people who are exposed to the extreme risk of their job. Thank God no one in their right mind thought of war. Don't impute the wrong things, or the SRS, or the people who fought honorably, or you, or your colleagues, for the defense of states and peoples. But how can you say that for people who don't have a roof over their heads, they support two grown children, like this example, a salary of 31,000. Have you seen what this money is for – for the better material position of members of the Army and for them to have apartments and higher wages. Don't you think they deserve more pay? Why is the MP more responsible than someone (or one who comes or goes college and never goes out for a pay phone, 80 percent,) a member of the Army? Don't play with such things and insult both my dignity and the dignity of the majority, I am convinced, the patriotically defined citizens of Serbia and honest and honest people who think in such a way. Whether it's a civilian person employed in an army that has 15,000 dinars, it's mostly people with no roof over their heads. You want me to remind you of that, and that's what Mr. Dinkic said at the exposé, and today your soufflé has shown that he doesn't know anything and you better don't listen to him, he's had a debacle, he's a political dilettante, now you listen to what I'm going to tell you – do you want me to illustrate some other data? You want to inform yourself, if you didn't know that, as a woman MP, that over 300 people of the former Yugoslav Army, now Serbia-Montenegro, who lived and lived now in Kosovo and Metohija, lost their jobs by a unilateral act by Prvoslav Davinic. Do you know that these people don't receive a single dime? These people were psychological security for Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. Ask fellow MPs who are from there, our colleagues Peric and Kragovic, how did these people experience it? They called me three or four times just in the course of one day to come if they needed to walk, to go from northern Kosovo Mitrovica, Gjilan, Strpce and all the places where they stayed to live with their families, to Belgrade and to say what to do next. Why do we leave these people out of work? You don't think that's professionalizing. You have found who to look up to, the Slovenians, who are an amazing story that stretches for so many years, that they are the role model of those who have committed the greatest evil act against the Serb army when they are in one day more than 30 soldiers from 18 and 19 years of age. That's an example for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22403	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. MPs are protected by immunity, and for that I allow, I am not talking about this address, but it was a question in your presentation earlier. So there's no way to verify the accuracy of the data being exported. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22404	Article 14. The bill says that the minister is in charge of the affairs of the commander for the execution of the total expenditure allocated in Section 4 relating to the judicial authorities; that the minister of the 1st Article's position is responsible for taking over and issuing payment orders, for carrying out the expenditure referred to in Article 1; on the execution of the tasks referred to in Article 1(1), the Justice Ministry shall submit a three-month report to the High Council of Justice. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Zoran Krasic suggested that this member be deleted. Indeed, I think there is no one who has heard or read this text of the law, and who does not think that this amendment is wrong, because it is unacceptable for the executive authority to influence the judicial authority through the implementation of the budget and to blackmail the judiciary. We got an explanation, of course, the government didn't accept it. So, it says - the amendment is rejected for the reason it is Article 61. The law on the budgetary system has been regulated that the direct beneficiary of the appropriations is responsible under his authority for transactions of indirect beneficiaries of the appropriations falling within his jurisdiction. Article 14. The draft law is in line with that provision of the Budgetary System Act, which, as indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, has also been established by the judicial authorities. So, with this explanation, first of all nebulous, the government is trying to make an impression or the government seems like MPs are idiots who don't understand their business, that they're stupid, illiterate. But it's not the Minister Dinkic's Bill on the Budgetary System. Maybe it's true that it's written in that bill on the budget system. I allow it to be so, but if it insists, if we've been saying this for years, especially in the last year or two days when you've been changing the law on court fees, we've talked about this, we've been paying attention to taking care of it in time, to create a special budget, that the minister isn't the one who's going to be available, being blackmailed. The problem is, you didn't do it. You left this provision, not to make it possible for Minister Stojkovic (your colleague) to deploy the funds, but to personally blackmail Minister Stojkovic and the Supreme Court of Serbia and judges individually. We have not forgotten, and neither are the citizens of Serbia, your frequent statements, when there was the abolition of banks, such or such solutions, when you came out with an attitude, which is otherwise characteristic of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that you are not interested in laws or judgments. When you say you're not interested in a court ruling, then it's normal, employees in court, judges first of all, if they know and hear your comments, then, of course, there's fear and some subconscious obligation to meet your demands, whether they're spoken so indirectly through the media or to turn directly to a judge or president of the court and ask him for a favor. So, if anyone knows that his salary is directly related to your good will, then certainly he comes into a situation and is tempted to comply with your wishes, your demands. As much as we here, including you, I'm not going to say because we all talk when it's such a declaration, we all say that courts should be independent, or the judiciary, that prosecutors should be independent, etc., but we know well that's not the case and we know that it's never been the case in Serbia. What was happening during this democratic period and how we almost heard it at a time of transition justice, as if there was some other justice, is particularly the influence of the executive authority on judicial authority. You're really the best example and I repeat again, so those rulings related to some banks, so where you had your attitude and your way, and you weren't interested in what the law says, what the courts say, you promise the users of the budget to have the same or higher salaries if they fire employees. So people are panicking, believe me, both in the judiciary and in health care and in the administration and in education, because nobody knows what's coming next year. All they know is that they're afraid of being fired, they know that these salaries can't live or barely make ends meet, especially you're afraid, Minister Dinkic, the middle professional staff, because they say you have some special animosity towards these people, they say, you increase salaries to doctors, but not to nurses, you increase judges, but not to employees in the judiciary. Believe me, I'm not telling you anything personal, I'm telling you what people are telling us. Of course, we know and we think that judges should have the right salary, the right wages, we know they're doing a responsible state's work, but we also know that the executive authority must in no way interfere with the decision-making and the work of the courts. The best thing to do is to free ourselves from the influence of the executive authority on the judiciary, so they themselves have the funds that have been allocated through the budget to the judiciary by the assembly majority, now to this, and tomorrow to someone else, yesterday to someone else, too. So what is defined as the Supreme Court, it is already known, is that one real way is made and that they have their budget and not only them, but many other budget users, and not Minister Dinkic, depend on your goodwill, as the MPs once depended on when, I don't know how long we haven't received salaries, and now we see that this is happening to the members of the state community. Of course, I'm not talking about salary hikes, I don't support salary hikes, but that you need to receive some pay, it doesn't have to be with raises, because I guess it's normal and normal. So, everyone in Serbia knows when they talk about their salaries, I mean, first of all, budget users, everyone talks about Dinkic as some supreme god whose life depends on him. They go to their resolute minister, that's what your colleagues are talking about, that's what a certain delegation goes to the Secretary-General, whether it's about education, health care, management, complaining, wondering when the salary increases will take place, and that colleague of yours says - I don't mind, I write to the government every day, asking the government to discuss it, but not to Dinkic. For God's sakes, Minister Dinkic, as you've allowed yourself, what do you think you are, that you have the money of this people, because that's the money of Serbian citizens who are pouring into the budget and we don't mind filling the budget, because it should be charged. We have a lot of objections about what you're taxing everything for, what you're taking money for Serbian citizens, etc., but that's a special story. As far as the judiciary is concerned, it's been unspecified for years what's going on with administrative fees, or court fees. He's never even our resolute minister, and you haven't explained to us why they're high court fees. (That doesn't apply to you. ) We told Minister Stojkovic that they are so high in court that simply citizens come into the situation that instead of suing, they have to kill each other, so whoever is stronger to exercise some right, it comes to them more cost-effectively than to sue because they do not have the means to pay high court fees. Now that you've introduced so many taxes, do we have a specification of exactly how much money that should be collected from the tax and which are really collected? It's about the case being conducted, the case being conducted whether or not the fee was paid or not. When the procedure is completed, if the party still does not pay the tax in the process, then it goes to an emergency execution, so until the tax comes, it is not this budget, but three four budgets after this. The obligation was made this year. The reason why it is so lying is because the Serbian government has a very bad relationship and attitude towards employees in the judiciary and they literally won't do the job, because they say – we don't care whether they charge a fee or not, we won't get paid, we can't live on the salary anyway. What's the state doing with that money? Nobody knows that. Instead, these funds are also allocated to employees' salaries in the specific budget that should exist for judicial authorities, and then to raise salaries both to judges and professional associates and to people with medium professional training. Because you're not a lawyer, you're not a judge, so you don't know, colleagues who know that well, what is the responsibility of professional associates who are doing a completely one case. The judge is the only one present at the hearing, everything else is done by an associate and makes a verdict and expeditates, etc. And his salary is about three times lower than the judge's salary. It's inadmissible and it's amazing. That's the only way it works with us. I know what you're trying to find now, Minister Dinkic, but there's no record of what I'm looking for, and that's how long it took for 2005 to get out of tax. All courts have computers, they have cases, the value of the dispute, the value of the dispute is known exactly how much the tax is, and they add it up nicely at the level of Serbia, to see how many millions would be, and how little it is charged, because employees in courts have no interest; I don't justify it, and I don't think employees should behave, but simply they show their relationship to the government, to the Ministry, to the state, because they say the state doesn't care about them, that the government doesn't care about them, that the minister doesn't care about them, neither you, nor their resolution minister, and that they return because they don't care about the fees. Believe me, what I'm telling you is the living truth. I'm convinced that all the lawyers in this room and those who aren't here know it well, lawyers know especially that that's how it is done, and if you would accept this amendment, then if this member (which you've told us here in an explanation) of this bill on the budget system, if you changed the article 61 in that sense, then believe that employees would have a lot more interest in charging taxes. They wouldn't take submissions until there was evidence of a taxi payment, because I know it can't happen because no tax case has been paid is pending. There is much that could be done for the reception itself if normal communication was established between the executive and the judicial authorities, and that normal communication certainly is not any influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority, because it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22405	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22406	As far as Article 14 is concerned, I do not see what is controversial about the minister in charge of justice affairs being a commanding officer for the implementation of the total expenditure allocated in the division of four budgets, relating to the judicial authorities. It's just the idea that it's not the finance minister, it's the one who takes care of the judicial authorities, which is the minister of justice. He is responsible for taking the obligation, issuing payment orders, implementing expenditures, and must submit a three-month report to the High Council of Justice on this. I don't see anything controversial about it. I'd like to comment on some of the things that these were just brought out. First of all, they're doctors and nurses. It's not true that I have a different relationship with those who work as medical staff, whether they're college graduates or medical technicians. On the contrary, as you know, we first made it possible to increase the wage range precisely in favour of doctors and medical technicians last year, and next year we'll move it to four to two to one. So, salaries and doctors and medical technicians, which means nurses, will increase in the following year by about 30 percent, when we include an increase based on labour price and based on an increase in coefficient range. It's possible that you misinformed them and that's how you scare them, but when I say something I always do, as well as the Minister of Health. And the health minister and I repeat that this relationship four to two to one will be established over the next year and the health unions know it. Besides, they'll feel it when they get the raises. I've always respected court decisions. It's not true that I've ever violated court decisions. You're probably referring to the Astra Bank case, or Karic's bank. In that case, the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. as governor of the National Bank, you know that I made the decision in 2001 at the time that the bank went bankrupt, given that it had a negative capital of 40m euros. The capital was negative for the simple reason that the savings of the population were pumped out of the bank and transferred to Cyprus to their offshore companies, and then reclassified further into some countries. All in all, everything citizens put into savings at Karic Bank, instead of being held in an adequate banking manner, was pumped up and therefore the decision to liquidate "Astra Banka" as well as the other 24 banks that violated the relevant banking laws was made. Despite the National Bank's decision to liquidate Astra Banka, the Trade Court has annulled our solution. We did not disobey the Trade Court's solution at the time, but accepted it and made a new decision on the liquidation. That's how it happened eight times. I never refused to respect the court's decision, but we were making new decisions, for the simple reason we thought the Trade Court was corrupt. In that case, specifically, i.e. concrete judges, but we did not reject their decision, but rather by making new solutions, in a legitimate way, we actually implemented our constitutional obligation to take care of the banking system. We respected the decision, although we were against it, but we made new decisions that de facto annulled the court's decisions. The court annulled ours and, unfortunately, it is the problem of our judiciary, which you also have judges who do not judge by law, but judge by whether anyone has the money to pay them. Unfortunately, the most obvious example is "Astra" or "Karić Bank", because this bank is not in the process of liquidation. It's the only bank of all 25 who lost her license to work, which isn't even in liquidation today. She neither has a license to work, nor has she been liquidated, for the simple reason that apparently Mr. Karic, using various connections in courts, has managed to keep her in a state of neither liquidation nor normal work, which indirectly damaged creditors who cannot be charged. This is really a question that goes beyond the frameworks of the Ministry of Finance, if anyone was talking about this, I don't know, which is why I've been experiencing every possible attack on the media controlled by this same gentleman. Next thing you know about justice. I don't mind raising salaries in the judiciary more than is foreseen in this budget, but if rationalisation is carried out, as is done in some other activities. Look at the data we gave you on page 19 of budget explanations. The judiciary is the only authority in the state of Serbia that increases the number of employees. So, in 2004, 249 employees, in 2005, 626 registered on the payroll in the following year; the Supreme Court of Serbia from 193 to 232; the Higher Commercial Court from 58 to 83; the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office from 54 to 65; district courts from 2,165 to 2,170; municipal courts from 8,520 to 8,600 employees; trade courts from 1,000 to 1,110 employees; municipal public prosecutors from 914 to 991; municipal authorities for violations from 2.565 to 2,690. Thus, the number of employees in the judicial authorities is constantly growing. Look at the other institutions, it's shrinking everywhere. It shrinks where rationalization is carried out. They don't have the right of people in the judiciary to ask for higher wages until they've been rationalized. I told Minister Stojkovic – if you really want people in the judiciary to have higher salaries, rationalize. He agrees with that. It's a policy that will be made next year. I'm for judges to have far higher salaries than today, that employees in the judiciary have far higher salaries than today, but to be more efficient and responsible, and that we have exactly as many judges as we need our country, not that we have a constant increase. If we increase the number of people in the judiciary, we can't expect them to get paid. Health care started with the reforms. By now, 7,100 people have left medical institutions voluntarily. Another 1,700 volunteered. In school, 6,500 people volunteered to leave. Of course, further salary increases are possible in all these sectors. As for this to say, I don't know, "Dinkic is the Supreme God, not that money," I'm just following the laws that you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are voting on. When you pass the bill on the budget, it's literally the law for me. I don't know if there's anything wrong with it, if I'm literally doing what you're empowering me to do. The moment you adopt the budget law, there is no way anyone can step out of it and raise salaries more than you have approved as MPs, but don't say, if the state community wants to retroactively increase salaries in the national assembly, it is not worth Dinkic giving them. Of course I won't give it to them. They can only increase within what they have in the budget. Same for some others. So, I'm just carrying out what you're empowering me to do. The budget law is the law for me. It is possible that the finance ministers have not acted this way before, but you are now discussing the budget, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We're making a proposal on what the budget should look like. As the law is passed, to the point, to the last letter, it will be implemented in practice next year, whether someone likes it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22407	To avoid confusion, the state community does not decide on salaries in the National Assembly, because only Serbia has the National Assembly, no one else has it in these areas. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22408	Mr. Dinkich, I didn't want to rephrase it to you earlier, but I have to now that I'm talking about this amendment, I need to get back to what you just said. It's not just the budget for you. Budget is the law. You said "it's the right law for me." Of course it's the law, but the point is it's not good, it's designed to make this kind of people's money available to you and ultimately, the state's money. That's what this is about. It's not about us passing a budget law, if it's ever passed, it's about what Bogoljub Karic is going to do these days, how much money he's willing to share, as in the informed circles of the story. It's the congregation majority problem, not ours. So, once that budget law is passed, then, of course, it is not disputed that this law should be applied exactly as it is written. But we want amendments to change the text of that law, this or that of the previous Budget Law. When you were talking about Karic Bank, you said you'd come up with an eight-time solution. I threw it out of your bench, and now I have to do this for the public, to say that it probably wouldn't have happened if it had happened after you went to Japan with Bogoljub Karic. It was the circumstances, today it's these, it doesn't matter. You were talking about increasing the number of judges. I don't know what explanation Minister Stojkovic gave, you're saying that he's planning to reduce the number of judges next year or maybe think about other categories within the courts, I don't know if he's thinking about the judges, neither did you. I know the courts are quite inefficient. That there are corrupt judges, unfortunately, there are. We always claim there aren't many, but there's enough to stain the cheek of the profession. It seems to me, if we ever agreed on a question, then we agreed when it comes to this President of the Trade Court, Goran Kljajevic. He is a criminal, but the fact is that he came as president of some crisis headquarters at the Trade Court in 2000. But these are the liquids of your revolution and now you have to deal with it yourself. You should have known then that he was a criminal, and we knew that back then. Why is it necessary to increase the number of judges in trade courts, in courts of general jurisdiction? Minister Dinkic, you know how many privatisations have been made in these five years and how many of these privatisations have ended in court. Over 90% of privatisations are in one way or another controversial, whether it is the privatisation process itself, whether it is the execution of the privatisation contract. Both cases are in front of trade courts and trade courts are overcrowded and overcrowded with such cases. Even if they were very effective, I'm afraid they wouldn't be able to handle as many objects as they've done in the process. On the other hand, courts of general jurisdiction have been overrun by labour disputes. Hundreds of thousands of people have been fired for the past five years. Many of them did not receive adequate severances, and many of them conduct proceedings before courts of general jurisdiction. I say again, work disputes should end as soon as possible, and believe that a working dispute is being conducted for five years. Maybe in those five years we can attribute part of the judge's ineffectiveness, but one part we have to attribute to the fact that the courts are overcrowded and overcrowded with such cases, because people have lost their jobs and are trying to figure out where they're going to -- what they're going to do, they're going to have to sue. So, from that point of view, I fully share your opinion that the judiciary can be significantly more effective, but the bottom line is that the judiciary should be cleared of that small number of criminals in the judiciary or those petty thieves and thieves, and then the majority of the honest judges who are now working in our courts will certainly be much better and more efficient to do their job. I hope that, thanks to the SRS parliamentary group, a good part of that job will go well, and when I say so today, we've received requests for the resolution of some judges, so I see that there's Mrs. V.D. The president of the Second Municipal Court, which I consider to be a great success of our parliamentary group, which we have presented with arguments about its work, has forced her to resign, to request resolution. I wish all of them would leave the court, that those who do not go in such a way as to obtain from the High Council of Justice and the Great Personal Council through the Committee such a request for resolution. Only when we get rid of those, can we possibly take new ones. If it is concluded that there is room we can hire new judges, that something does not increase the number much, and then in such a way that I do not have a negative impact on the receipts, i.e. on the earnings of judicial employees. I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 which says that for public procurement above the amount of the money of 450 million dinars, the contracting authority requires a bank guarantee in the procurement process in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In the second point, you say by obtaining a small value, in terms of the Public Procurement Act, it is considered to be a purchase with an estimated value of between 200,000 and 2 million dinars. I have proposed that small-value purchases be in the amount of, i.e., that this amount of 2 million be replaced by 1.5, so that the purchase of small-kinds is worth between 200,000 million and 1.5 million dinars, because we think that the amount for small-value purchases should not be increased, primarily because of the lack of the Public Procurement Act itself and all the abuses that occur in the application of this law and especially when it comes to small-value purchases. When we spoke of this law, we spoke of many arguments, persuading the Registrar to accept some of our amendments, claiming that the Law on Public Procurement would result in many abuses. I'm sure you now know that it is so, that the Secretary of Resort knows, that everyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia knows. This law, when passed, is now some new law, so far we haven't had it, all of it sensational, but they can't pass such laws just so we have some title that we've passed a new law, but the law must essentially be good. What we need is a law that opens up the possibility of much more abuse than when supplies were made without that law. Indeed, there are more abuses now than then. It was tragic and comical the other day at a press conference when your colleague Velja Ilic spoke about this law. He was asked by journalists about this affair in the railways with Sarančić and those wagons, what they were already getting, Velja Ilic instead of explaining, but I guess he couldn't, he couldn't lie so much, to say that it's not true what is being said in public, he says – aman people, this Law is so bad that it has to change urgently. So it's so bad that he doesn't apply it, when government members don't apply it, who else is going to apply it. That's proof that you're making a lot of mistakes, that you're looking at amendments to the SRS with prejudices. We, Mr. Ministers from this pay phone, can tell you this and that, but believe me, when we talk about laws and amendments, it is our intention to pass a good law, to be positive for the citizens of Serbia, to reduce any possible corruption here, reduce abuse, and you insist on making laws with such holes in the law, so the lawyers would say it's terrible. Every law you've passed in this so-called. A transition period, a period of transition justice, can be abused. Do not be surprised that all those who apply these laws someday come under the influence of judicial authorities, serious judicial authorities in one serious procedure. You will be amazed at how much your laws themselves have contributed to making people a little bit of looser morale, because it seems to them that the law has been swept up so easily that it is very easy to implement without being noticed, at least so that the naked eye is not noticed. That's why we think you should accept this amendment. You have no reason to increase this amount to two million. A million and a half is too much, but let me just say quite enough, because you yourself know that all the abuses that occur, that is, most of the abuses in the application of this law, are happening right through this small procurement institute. Since we are at the end of the budget debate, I have to make one principled position of the SRS parliamentary group, which is that fellow MPs from the parliamentary majority and you ministers, as a representative of the government, have shown a very unserious attitude towards a very serious law, the budget law. You have neither tried to oppose our arguments nor your presence. We delayed the session twice because you didn't find the time to come before the MPs. Of course, we respect and understand that you have a duty and today you said that you had an obligation, that you had barely decided what was before you, so you made the right choice, this is the most important and important thing for you. But you're the government, you deal with the President of Parliament when some law is going to be put on the agenda, so you have to plan when it comes to the budget that you have to be here, to listen to us, to talk to us, not to argue, not to hold political classes, not to ironify us, not to insult us, but to talk to us about our arguments, because that's how we talk to you. So, regardless of any other connotations that are heard, you know, we're MPs, and when we talk about the law, we have to present to the citizens the minister representing the law. My fellow MPs who will vote for this bill, I cannot argue that they will have a majority in voting, but those who are there will vote, they have not shown enough seriousness. Maybe if he did, he might have had less success tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22409	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. Part of the text: "The Office of the Co-ordination Centre of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija" is amended and reads "The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia". For several reasons, I have filed this amendment in front of the SRS. One of them is that when we mention the Coordination Body or the Centre, it immediately associates us in the name and name of Nebojja Covica. While he was at the head of that center, we never heard a report about the spending of those funds. Last year, when the centre was budgeted, the SRS considered the amount of money planned for such, a body that had many tasks and projects in Kosovo and Metohija and in these three municipalities of Bujanovac, Medvedja and Presevo, that Nebojsa Covic should at least report to this body and this home. We have testified that our MP Ljubomir Kragovic has on many occasions asked for a report of such a body and centre, which has never happened. If he didn't want to report to the MPs of the post, at least to you who voted in favour of the funds, which should have been singled out and set out last year for this body, submitted a report to you or to the ministers, if not to the assembly majority. Since it is planned this year to allocate 2,340,980,000 dinars for the Coordination Centre, I think it is much more useful to transfer these funds to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia this time, because the economy is in a difficult and dramatic situation. I think it would be far more useful for those funds to be transferred to the Development Fund. Since the Fund is the next item of the agenda, I think there will be much more debate on the funds and on the allocation to the Development Fund. I think that part of the budget relating to recycling and environmental protection and the Ministry of Environment Protection, that a lot of money is foreseen in several of these funds and agencies planned this year, such as the Environment Protection Board and the Environment Fund. The co-ordination of finance ministers with local self-governments where they hold or place their G17 personnel plus is planned to form development information centres or centres, more funds. I'm asking a question, Minister, if he wants to hear me, Mr. Minister, can you hear this finding? In local self-governments where your directors of development information centres are stationed, if they are not set up, or if you lose the G17 plus option in the Assembly most of them, will you target those same funds, as you just said, when the budget is adopted, when the budget is voted in the Assembly, will you honor the funds you planned towards such developmental information centres that are formed by local self-government?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22411	The word has been made by MP Milan Veselinovic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22412	When it comes to this amendment and the funds allocated to Kosovo and Metohija, as well as to the Co-ordination Body led by Mr Covic, it is normal that every man, not to tell me MPs, would be against the fact that even now these funds are being spent on Mr Covic's time. Mr. Covic had a whole network of people, starting from Novi Pazar, via Kosovo Mitrovica to Pristina, Gracanica, Lapljeg Sela, where with his people, his network, he started his own radio job party, normally, cashing himself in and helping his party, thinking he would win Kosovo and Metohija. The election showed that he couldn't buy everything and everyone, and he spent it on the party for nothing. It is unfortunate that the funds detached from the Serbian budget do not go into the right hands. For example, there are data that on several occasions, during the distribution of funds and help from hygienic humanitarian aid and all that was done through the Coordination Centre, that in these centres, whether in Gracanica, Laplem Sela or Kosovo Mitrovica, these funds and these aid were given only to certain people who were giving such assistance in the circle and even sold to citizens what they should have received as humanitarian aid. You could see an example of the division of a hundred computers from us Serbian radicals that we went in line to Plemetina and visited Serbian villages, almost the most endangered villages and the local community, so why couldn't Mr. Covic do so, where TV cameras will also record how Kosovo citizens receive funds from the budget. I don't want to mention the connections he had in southern Serbia by spending these funds. It would be good if these funds came into the right hands of Kosovo and Metohija and that the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, especially those who stayed in the ghetto in certain areas such as Gracanica and the surrounding villages. It would be luck and the right thing to have those resources there for those people who need it most in hospitals, schools, and everyone who's threatened, especially the old ones. It's a real heroism to live in Kosovo and Metohija today, especially in those enclaves surrounded by the Shiptarian terrorists. These funds, over two billion, should not be spent and used in this way. I think that the example of Nebojka Covic should serve everyone and all of us, especially Sandi Raskovic, not to allow such failures and such robbery to happen again – to spend people's money in pointless things. That's why I urge that this amendment be accepted in the voting day by Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22413	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Becic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 19a be added after article 19. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22414	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to talk about the amendment, but I just want to point to article 19. I think it's also important that the minister hears if he can intervene to change something here. I will read the first position of this member so that the present MPs and citizens know what this is about: 'Towns and municipalities in 2006 can plan the total funds needed to pay the salaries of employees financed from the budget of cities and municipalities, so that the amount of funds to pay twelve months' wages is planned from the level of salaries paid for September 2005 up to 9%'. Let me tell you right now, I agree with the idea of saving a little money in this country, and I agree that in some ways, public spending is being paid. But there's a problem that we're bonding here, that is, the promoter tied himself to the moon in September. It's November now and we, I think, are going to adopt this budget in November of the month. The base is September, or September level of salary. Here's a concrete example from Baja's garden. In half of October, the parliamentary majority in the SO Bajina Garden (most of which are DS, SPS, DSS, SPO, NS and PSS) adopted a decision by which the president of the assembly moves on to permanent work in the SO. He's becoming a professionally paid person. If we have 60 employees whose orientation gross salary is about 1.5 million dinars, you can see how much that amount will burden one president's salary, which is set at 90% of the parliamentary salary. So the decision was made to make the president's salary 90% of the parliamentary salary. This means that his gross salary, or earnings, will be about 100,000 dinars. If you compare 100,000 dinars with 1.5 million dinars of the gross amount of all employees in the municipality, you understand that these predicted 9%, which are projected as some increase in earnings in the following year, will be amortised or analized by that salary that did not exist in September, because before October, the President of the Assembly in Baja Basta was not in permanent working relations. There are probably more cases like this in Serbia. There are probably municipalities that some people hired in October. It should be clearly and openly said that those employees who were employed by September will now be deprived, their salaries in the next year will not be realistically increased, even more realistically than they were in this year. I'm asking the minister to consider this. I think it makes more sense that, as a base or that rapper, we take the month of November, or the month in which we adopt this budget or the month following the adoption of the Republic's budget, so that the municipalities might have that in mind, that we don't make some decisions that they're going to make for the basis of the month that passed before the long period, and the municipalities didn't have any idea what would happen and how they're going to have to account for the wages next year. I am speaking for reasons that those employees who have been working there for years will not be damaged, and according to this decision will be damaged in the following year, because their salaries will be much less in municipalities where we have changes in October or November, until this budget is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22415	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 20a be added after Article 20a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposal's representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? (Paja Momchilov: There is another amendment. ) No, please, what you mean is the amendment regarding the decision. It was therefore a unique search and was possible only in the context of a single search. We are now finishing a search in the details of the budget law. (Paia Momchilov: I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22416	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize, please don't violate the Rules of Procedure. There's a clear response from the government to the amendment here. This is in the amendment material, this isn't a principle debate. Please, don't violate the Rules of Procedure so harshly. You can say that this is an amendment and it says "an amendment is denied" well, so on. And you put it here and the government gave the answer. This is really weird.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22417	Please, you have no reason to be angry with me. It's not about breaking the Rules of Procedure. A unique search has opened up. Of course, you had a lot of right and you made an amendment to the motion for a decision and it will be voted on in the voting day, but there has been a single review of the decision. It's just that I have no other way of saying the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, there is no discussion on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22418	It's not right to have a dialogue, but where does it say?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22419	There is no reason, because it was informed by the president at the beginning of the session when a single search, when a search is conducted separately, in principle and in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22420	We've consulted the legal department on exactly how to handle it. The SRS Parliament Club asked for legal assistance and we were told, do this, submit an amendment, and just as the professional service told us we did. It was said to go under the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22421	That's right, you've made the amendment, he's been seduced and will vote on it, as the professional service has told you, but there's no discussion about him, because a single search has been conducted. Neither you nor I talk about our matter, we simply consulted the professional service to get to it and there is no reason to discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22422	I can tell that this is still scandalous not to be allowed to talk about the amendment. It's a very important amendment, because here it's brutally breaking the law, for example. The law on the budgetary system, where Article 5 says "Budget incomes and expenditures must be balanced". The Statute of the Institute in Article 55 clearly states "incomes and expenditures in the financial plan must be balanced". It wasn't done with this plan. I have in my hands a republican plan that is balanced and brought to the session. And three days later, such an unbalanced financial plan was made, without the board's decision. It's all scandalous, and if you defend it like this I won't talk any further, but there's a set of health care laws going on, and then we're gonna talk about it a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22423	Thank you. As you can see, I've had enough understanding, because we're in an awkward situation, and you and I are. The professional service responded to me, too, since no amendment was ever made to the decision. I asked as much as you did. I got the answer I read you and it's not right for you and I to discuss it. Here you go, sir. I'll give you the final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22424	First, to answer the MP who asked a question about salaries in local self-government, why we imposed a restriction that the salary mass could be increased by 9%, starting with a mass of salaries paid in October for September. The MP said the municipalities didn't know. The legislator's intention was not to let the municipalities know. If we had now announced that wages could be increased next year based on the mass of wages paid in December, all local municipalities would have rushed to increase profits now, basically. We prepared the budget law and sent it to the Assembly on October 31st, a few days before that we adopted it at the government, no municipality knew about this restriction, they all had the same treatment and we deliberately froze it at the level of the last paid earnings. The only thing I find strange about this question is how it's possible that only the president of the Assembly's salary would be so much to make it impossible for others to grow. I can't see what kind of mathematics it is that only one newly employed man after October 31st, and that's the president of the assembly, and of course the president of the assembly has to have the right salary, but if it's one person, I can't see that one salary so much that it will limit the growth of the total fund of earnings that no one will be able to grow in the next year. Of course, I don't want to get into what the MP said about who was in power there, including the PSS. If it is as much a problem as Mr. Karic boasts, he should provide additional funds for this municipality if he considers this legal solution not to be a good one. This will apply to all municipalities, so there are no exceptions, no matter who's in power. The main intention is that, if a salary increase is to go beyond this of 9%, the number of employees must be rationalised or new employees admitted, means that real wages will fall, that is absolutely clear. No one limits the number of employees, but we limit the number of employees through pay limits. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction with the discussion of the budget and the fact that there were no fundamental objections to the proposed budget law. I want to say that this budget is also anti-inflation, because it significantly reduces public spending on a permanent basis. Developmental also, because it provides greater public investment, but there is another segment that I have not talked about so far, and ultimately I would just like to focus on. For the first time, Serbia has funds for larger investments, and not only investments in its territory, but also private firms and state-owned ones have the means to invest beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia itself. We intend to, and I didn't want to talk much about it during the amendment debate, to motivate our successful companies to participate as much as possible in the privatisation process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also in the privatisation process in Macedonia, I have already stressed that some of our banks, where Serbia has majority ownership, will apply for a license and outside Serbia's territory. I said the Commercial Bank is in a position to expand its activity now. We really intend to correct regional disproportion first, to invest more in southern Serbia, in the east of Serbia, but to where we can get out of our country's borders. A time has passed when only Croatia and Slovenia participated in the privatisation process in Serbia, the time has come for Serbian companies to participate in the privatisation process in the territory of these former Yugoslav republics. We have a strong bank, which will get permission to work in the region as well. It can further improve the work of our investment firms. With larger investments beyond Serbia's borders, I think we can finally come into a situation to strengthen relations with citizens living outside Serbia's territory and they're tied to the queen. Only through such investments can we do it. Thank you very much for your attention, and I hope that most of the votes will adopt this budget, which will help Serbia in further economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-22-0.u22425	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I thank you for your responsibility to all the MPs who participated in the work today. We will continue tomorrow at 10.00 debate in details of item 2 of the agenda of this session. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than a third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. At the beginning, I remind you, the session of the Legislative Committee is at 10:15 p.m., in a small hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Ivana Kovacevic, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Lazarevic and Suzana Grubjesic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia (Serbs) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Ljubomir Kragović, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Vjerica Radeta, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Jovan Todorovic, Vladimir Andrić, Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović. National MP Jovan Todorovic made a written withdrawal of the amendment, which he submitted to the bill. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
