ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20058	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs Milka Silajev and Ksenija Milivojević. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME LAW (specificity) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've received amendments from the Justice and Administration Committee. You've received amendments from the government. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: together Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Helijana Dragojević, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Zivkucin, Snezana Stojanović-Plavić and Đorđe Čukovas; Petar Jojić; Srboljub Marinović; Vitomir Plužarić; Stevica Dedjanski; Sulejman Spaho, Zoran Krasić; Božidar Koprivica; Milan Stevović; Sreto Perić; Nemanja Sarović; Milovanovic; Borje Ruždić-Tristić; Natasa Jovanović; Milorad Mirčić; Vjerica Radeta; Momir Marković; Together Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Marković; Leila Ruždić-Trifunović; Boška Ristić; Mioddrag Djidrić; Ljiljan Mužović; Luđar Mužilić Obljić Obljić; Mužović Obstor M. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, minister of justice, withdrew the government's amendment to Article 432 at a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration. It's a bill of law. The amendment was written by the MPs: Petar Jojic to members 45, 60, 105, 114, 310, 346, 370, 371, 373, 374, 376, 378, 386, 391, and 392, which he submitted on 25 May 2005, and then submitted new amendments to the same members of the bill on 9 September. Also, Petar Jojic withdrew the amendment to Article 432, which was added to the new amendment on 26 May 2005 and submitted to the same member on 12 September 2005; Petar Jojić and Vitomir Plužarević to Article 372, which together submitted on 25 May 2005; Petar Jojić and Sulejman Spaho to Article 103 together on 25 May 2005; Leila Ruždić-Trifunović to members 79 and 194; Ljiljana Nestorović, one amendment which was submitted on 22 July 2005 to several members of the bill, and to members: 310, 321, 331, 333, 346, 370, 371, 373, 374, 376, 378, 386, 391, and 392, with a new amendment to each of those members; Goran Rakovac to Articles 366; Bojan Kekić to Articles 336, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, 371, and 391, and 392, 392, 326, 392, 3366, 3366, 3366, 3366, 335, 335, 335, 316, 3366, 335, 316, 3366, 3366, 3366, 357 and 116, 316, 356, 366, 366, 366 and 116 to 316, 366, 377 1766, 1766, 1766, 1766, 366, 366, 1717, 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17, 37, 37, 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37, 37 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 During the review of the Law proposal, in the principle of an amendment which the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept, the MPs withdrew: Zarko Obradović to Articles 45, 46, 103, 104, to add a new title and Article 147a, 208, 359 and Article 432, and Rajko Baralić to Articles 35, 43, to add a new title to Article 53 and Article 106 to Article 106. The amendments that were accepted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the representative of the motions at the meeting of the Committee, which the Legislative Committee considers legally possible, were submitted to the members of the 4th Members, who, in the same text, were sent by the Members of the People of the People of the Republic of Slovenia Đorđe Mamul and together by the Members of the People of the Republic of Serbia and the Members of the Republic of Serbia. The Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia sent together by Mr. Slobodan Vučković and Slobodan Pajović; the Members of the People of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of Slovenia sent by Mr. Also, an integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments to Article 152, which was submitted by the People's MP Vjerica Radet; to Article 170, which was submitted by the National MP Đordje Mamul; to the Member 171, who was submitted by the National MP Đorđe Mamul; to the Member of the People's Parliament Zarko Obradović; to the Member of the People's Parliament of the Parliament of the People of the Republic of Croatia; to the Member of the People of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of Croatia; to the Member of the People of the Republic of Croatia of the Republic of Slovenia of Croatia, to the Member of the Republic of Croatia, was sent to the Member of the Republic of Croatia. On 321, who, in the same text, was submitted to Members Petar Jojić and Ljiljana Nestorović; to Article 323, submitted to the National MP Momir Marković; to Article 331, which, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Petar Jojić and Ljiljana Nestorović; to Article 332 who, in the same text, submitted to the MPs Petar Jojić and Ljiljana Nestorović; to the article 333; to the MEPs, who, in the same text, were sent to the MPs Petar Jojić and Ljiljana Nestorić; to Article 346, who, in the same text, were sent to the Members of the National Assembly of the People of the People of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia; to the Republic of Slovenia sent to the Republic of Croatia, to the same people of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, to the Republic of Slovenia, to the Republic of Slovenia and to the Republic of Slovenia, to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic together submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the title above Article 1, which reads - there is no crime or punishment without law, is intended to be - there is no criminal offence or criminal sanctions without law. In that sense, it is the next amendment. However, given that these laws are regulated as sanctions, penalties, warning measures, safety measures and educational measures, and that in certain cases security measures can be given to non-accountable persons, then this amendment that we have submitted should also have some corrections, so I am withdrawing that and the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20060	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted to the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. And this is the withdrawn amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(2), but I would like to remind you of what Article 4. In fact, Article 4 refers to criminal sanctions and general purpose. When we talk about criminal sanctions, paragraph 1 requires criminal sanctions: penalties, warning measures, security measures and educational measures. It is said in point 2 – the general purpose of prescribing and giving criminal sanctions is to combat acts that harm or threaten the values protected by criminal law. I suggested on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party that instead of saying "restraint of action" stand "restraint of criminal acts". I would like to explain this briefly: we know that in the procedure of the Code of Criminal Procedure, however, it is much more precise, much more lexically correct to insert this word "criminal", because everywhere in this criminal code is mentioned a crime. I'll remind you, since I've read what criminal sanctions are, what is said for reasons, or for the purpose of punishment. It is said this way - within the general purpose of criminal sanctions Article 4 and Article 2 is called for this, the purpose of punishment is to prevent the perpetrator from committing crimes and affecting him not to commit crimes in the future. Then in attitude two, it's called "impacting others not to commit crimes." So, in this article, it's about criminal acts. Also, when we talk about warning measures as criminal sanctions, it is said again in article 54 -- warning measures are a conditional sentence and a court notice, then Article 2. - within the general purpose of criminal sanctions, and this Article 4 paragraph 2, the purpose of the sentence and the court's notice is that the perpetrator of a minor crime (undermining, a minor crime) is not to be subject to a sentence and when it can be expected that a warning with a threat of punishment, a conditional sentence or only a warning of a court sentence will have sufficient effect on the perpetrators not to commit a criminal offence. When it comes to the third form of criminal sanctions, these are security measures. In Article 78, which refers to the purpose of the security measure, it is said – within the general purpose of criminal sanctions (and again calls for this Article 4 paragraph 2), the purpose of the security measure is to remove the conditions or conditions that may be of any effect that the perpetrator does not commit crimes in the future. Finally, if we were to take the Bill on Juvenile Crimes, we must say that in Article 9, criminal sanctions, it is said this way – to the minors for the crimes committed can be given educational measures, the sentence of juvenile prison and the security measures provided for in Article 79. KZ, except for the ban on making calls for action or duty. So in all these sanctions: in punishments, and in warning measures, and in security measures and educational measures, there are crimes behind it. So, I don't see any reason for the minister not to accept this amendment, because what I suggested here is appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20062	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment provides for a new position to be added in Article 4, which reads: "Requestive measures for the crimes of minors and the punishment of juvenile prison are governed by a special law". Article 4(1) lists the sanctions and lists, inter alia, educational measures. They are no longer mentioned in this law, except in this place, and it was necessary to regulate their application and regulations regarding them. However, the government may not have adopted this amendment because it has adopted the amendment of Parliamentarian Mamula, who is almost identical to this member. It's the same essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20064	National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 4a be added after article 4. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20065	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr Minister, I have suggested that in the general part of this bill a brand-new member should be entered to read: "Ignorance or incorrect understanding of this criminal code does not excuse anyone." Item 2: "In view of the circumstances under which a criminal offence is committed, the court may, in accordance with this Code, impose a minor sentence and, in particular, be free from any punishment." This provision is an old traditional postulate that had the 1929 criminal law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It was one of the fundamental principles on which criminal law rested and something that became known in the people, which is that ignorance of the law does not justify anyone and does not excuse anyone. Writers of this criminal code have come from the fact that this concept is obsolete. They have opted for a different solution, in Articles 28 and 29, where real and legal error is treated and where it is said that it is not a crime that was done in an indecisive real error. The real error is inescapable if the perpetrator was not obliged and could not escape error and if the perpetrator was in real error due to his indemnity, there will be a criminal act committed out of neglect when such a crime is foreseen. Article 29 states that it is not a crime that was committed in an irrevocable legal error. The legal error is inescapable if the perpetrator was not obliged and could not know that his work was forbidden. In attitude 3 - the perpetrator who did not know that the work was forbidden, but he was obliged and could know, the punishment can be tempered. So, this concept is very convenient for lawyers first of all, because in the absence of stronger arguments, it will always go to the evidence of real or legal error, which I assume will distance the proceedings from the crime committed and the concentration of the crime committed. I do not personally like such a concept, and I think that the criminal code still requires a clearly defined principle that ignorance does not justify and that everything cannot be brought down to members 28 and 29, i.e. real and legal error.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20066	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20067	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been proposed to Article 5(2). Paragraph 2 reads: "If the law has been amended once or twice after the offence has been carried out, the law that is most mild for the perpetrator will be applied." Of course, the principle of the softest law is the principle that is applied in any case, and we have suggested that it be deleted "once or twice" because if the law has been amended after the offence has been committed, the law that is most mild to the perpetrator will apply. This is clear enough and much more written than is stated in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20068	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14. The bill of criminal code, and I can really say that, whether or not I am full of law, I expected this amendment to be adopted. In fact, criminal law and the matter itself that regulates criminal law by its very nature is something that should be above politics, especially above daily politics. I was pleased that a lot of amendments by the SRS parliamentary group and a lot of amendments from other parliamentary groups were adopted, but I think it is extremely important that these provisions be regulated in the best possible way. So, maximum precision and linguistic and logical and to use some terms that have been in our criminal legislation for years and decades. This is definitely not an area where we have to invent something new. This is not an area where some kind of reform, with a vague goal, we need to run over everything that's been created for many years. Criminal legislation is extremely specific. Every word, each decimal has an extremely large meaning and cannot be, it must not be allowed to appear really big problems because of some failures later in practice. The amendment to Article 14 refers to the very concept of criminal activity. It defines what a crime is, basic characteristics are given, and I think it's really essential that, at the very beginning of the law, when defining a crime, the maximum precise legal provision is written, because I repeat that further conconsequences are practically inconsequential. My amendment suggested that Article 14 be amended and it reads: "The crime is an act which violates or threatens the values protected by criminal law, which is wronged, wrongly and by law defined as a criminal offence". So, legally speaking, I think the definition is much better than the one given in the government's bill: "The crime is the crime that the law provides for as a criminal act, which is against the law and which is wronged." Item 2 – no criminal offence if illegality or guilt is excluded, even though all the traits of the offence exist. I think it's definitely, legally speaking, better to put it all in one position, especially not necessarily to make two attitudes. Secondly, if you define what a crime is and when there will be a crime, I also think it's wrong to define in the first position when it will exist, and to define in attitude 2 when it won't. It would be much better and cleaner if it were accepted, and I don't think it's too late to accept this amendment now. I don't know what the reasons would be. I think absolutely everything is covered, all the elements of the crime are covered by this definition. It's clearer, more concise, more precise. Which means, if the guilt is excluded, there's no crime. So I would really like the minister to give a valid explanation of why this amendment is not accepted or to accept this amendment as well. So when a criminal code is passed, this is a long-awaiting codification, many have worked on this law, and then it's really important to forget about some divisions, to simply look at the future, because if it's well written today and if there's understanding of what we're going to say today, then there won't be any need to change this code for many years. This code is not something that is the work of this current government of the Republic of Serbia. The need to create this codification for a long time, practically decades, has been said, for many years it has been done to create this codification. Now that it has finally come to the agenda it has been extremely inappropriate, firstly, when you have failed to present practically the MPs and the importance of this law united the principle debate on four laws in just five hours. It is clear that the criminal code, if we are to debate seriously, must have been extended time of principle debate at least double, and in no case should you have brought even four laws together. I repeat, there is still time for some corrections and I call on the Minister either to accept this or to respond specifically to the objections that make it impossible for him to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20070	The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20071	I fully agree that this codification has been done much longer. The authors have done it thoroughly in the previous period and now, and this is the finale. You know, when it's said that a crime is what's meant by the criminal code, it covers all the goods that are being violated, and they're protected by criminal law. So it's a much simpler, more precise definition, because they say -- what's meant to be a crime, it's a criminal code, not to further the possibility of any interpretation. This second part speaks only of the necessary defense and legal error and extreme necessity. These are the three cases, there were major problems in practice because of them, so it was not known whether at point 1 would be released because there was no evidence of action. Now it's known to be point one, there's no part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20072	The word has, that is, been requested by the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20073	Mr. Minister, I don't know, I may not have understood you, I don't think you're well-intentioned, but I invite you to say about this definition that I gave in my amendment. So, you're talking about the law's determination as a criminal offense, but here it's said -- the crime is an act that violates or threatens the values that are protected by criminal law, which is wronged, wrongly and legally defined as a criminal offence. So it's also covered in this definition. All the elements that should be, illegality and legal determination as a crime and that it's bent, refer to that form and all that exists here. So why split something into two positions unless it's necessary. Although we criticise you for some other laws and for uncertainty, for over-explanatory interpretations and insertions of some unnecessary things, but definitely, in the criminal code of the provision must be as short as possible and as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20074	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20075	I think what is proposed by the amendment "Imposing" Sarovic is better than what's written here, so, no matter how much someone's been trying to define a crime to put out a social hazard and translate it into some new termology of values in society, obviously it was intensity, so there's been a change in this definition. I think the amendment is more comprehensive for the simple reason that you already in the previous members suggest that it will not be a crime just as prescribed by this law, but also by some special law. In order for the special law to be laid down as a criminal offence, to pose a threat to social values, then this definition must, conditionally speaking, and a little descriptive, be formal for a legislative body when it determines the criminal acts that it must take into account in some law, because a small contradiction already arises in Article 18. It's an act of little importance. You see, violations are violations of the public order, and that's also a violation of some social values, of some constitutionally prescribed way. It can be a small indiscipline, it can be much greater indiscipline. If we look at sanctions, although Dinkic has hit sanctions now, it's worse than a life sentence, laugh at you, but look at some of the regulations that we've brought here, you'll see for yourself, the fines are 2,000 dinars and some ten times the amount goes, and somewhere there are five million, 50 million etc. Whoever falls under his jurisdiction can only pray to God that a public prosecutor saves him. In the past, the responsibility for crimes saved people from criminal responsibility, you know that – not to be twice about the same, etc. Now criminal responsibility saves you from criminal responsibility with Mladjan Dinkic. It is therefore necessary in paragraph 1, or as Germany has proposed a single position, to indicate what these values are and to give it a guideline to the legislative authority and to whoever proposes the laws, in which the diapazon is to move when something prescribes that it is a crime. I'm just interpreting this amendment, not as an amendment that changes the definition of a crime because of the tendency that you want this law to prescribe it. Of course, a crime is every offense, especially if criminal law is defined as a criminal offence and that would be some simplest definition. Since this law, as much as it wanted to carry out a codification, has left one space for specific laws to define criminal acts, in order to define those laws, it must be taken into account in which diapazon can go with the determination of criminal acts. I don't want to speak specifically, since most people know it well, something is prescribed as a violation, and it should probably be the work of less social danger, of overcoming a deadline, of nondiscipline, etc. When you look at the sanctions that are prescribed, you see that in criminal terms you have much lighter sanctions than infractions, and then the question arises – if there are any violations with sanctions, make it two million dinars, you don't have that kind of sanctions in the criminal act. Then what's a crime? Is it a felony? He's a misdemeanor, because he's got a name for a crime. By sanctions, he's harder than a felony. I suggest that... I know that it changes your concept, because yet the team that understands this area has been doing this professionally, I do not dispute that it has gone from one smart reason – the crime is only the act that is prescribed by law as a crime, and there is the end. But since you've expanded it, of course, against the law, and the integral part of it is a criminal offense, or criminal law, the elements of the being of every crime so that man knows. Here they stand - universal values, so in a special part of the criminal code you divided it: life, electoral law, official duty, justice, state etc. These are all some values, but all these values are protected by other laws. It doesn't make any sense that sanctions for violations are far greater than criminal sanctions in this law. So, Mr. Sarovic's amendment only aims to be a guideline when determining crimes, since you accepted that concept that other laws could also prescribe crimes. We're against that concept, let me tell you right now. We're for the concept that in one piece of paper, in one book we have all the criminal rules and that we have all the crimes and that not everyone can take a field trip to determine what's going to be a crime. We by the same government, so when it proposes some laws, we have a breach of this concept. Look, Dinkic, when he prescribes some punishment for a misdemeanor, it's just that you're begging the D.A. to make you go to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20076	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20077	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in a unique, logical legal-technical way, this amendment, Nemanja Sarovic, the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, gives a better solution and more effective, compared to understanding, celery and application. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted, because it has a traditional mark, because in the earlier criminal laws of our country there was a similar definition. I find this amendment very effective, so it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20078	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the explanation of Milovan Radovanovic's amendment, I would like to congratulate the citizens of The Tower on the seriousness and responsibilities they showed in yesterday's elections when the Serbian Radical Party won. We promised that Serbian radicals would win the Tower and we won. A colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 15. Proposed criminal code. This amendment is in line with this amendment to Article 14 on which Nemanja Sarovic and Zoran Krasic spoke. It is truly strange that the amendment, and this, as well as the previous one, is not accepted, since the amendment provides for the envisaged text in the draft law, and is referred to as the execution of criminal acts by inaction. In the government's proposal, this member has two positions. The first reads: "The crime was committed by inaction when the law failed to commit a certain act is foreseen as a criminal act. "Station 2: "Indeeding can also be committed a criminal act which was laid down by law as an act, if the perpetrator has achieved the traits of this crime by failing to commit an act of duty. "We felt that the formula that I am about to read to you would be better, more precise, more correct in defining the execution of the criminal act of inaction. The suggestion is that this article 15 has three bets. The first point: "Crime can be done by doing or by doing", simply to define how a crime can be done in the first place. Item 2: "The crime was committed by inaction when the perpetrator missed the act he was obliged to perform. "Shortly, clearly, precisely, logically, we really don't see what there is in this attitude, which would possibly be a proposing or any of the colleagues who would support the law would have had to make a remark. Item 3: "An offence can be committed which is not defined by law as an indemnity if the perpetrator has achieved the traits of a crime by failing to commit a duty. "It is also precise, clear, just as we Serbian radicals think it should be a legal norm. We always say that when we talk about government proposals, that it must insist on clear and precise norms in order to avoid any misunderstanding, any possible abuse. We always do so when we submit such amendments with a truly sincere intention to improve the text of government proposals. When it comes to the draft criminal code, we talked about it in the principle debate, but I still have to look very briefly at this principle debate, just to remind ourselves of what we talked about a decade ago, because I repeat, I don't even know which time, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is such that MPs lose continuity with what we discussed 10 days ago. Now we have to go back to the same law, but in particular. So, when we spoke in the principle debate, then we Serbian radicals stressed and expressed the view that we do not have any drastic objections to the proposal for a criminal code, for the simple reason that the text with the adopted amendments of the Serbian Radical Party is in the large majority of the text that was in the process in 2000, when the federal minister was Mr. Petar Jojic and Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government Tomislav Nikolic and Maja Gojkovic. They've been working with a team of experts on a criminal code proposal. The draft criminal code, with certain amendments, has given us the current government of the Republic of Serbia to consider and adopt. What happened? The essence of this law was in this basic government proposal, but there were a lot of what the government (i.e. to be an authentic creator of this law) would have thrown out, some very important and very important members, or had changed them in some way that did not fit into the concept of this law. As a result, the minister accepted a large number of amendments from the SRS parliamentary group on behalf of the government. I say this simply so that there is no confusion, since it is not usual for government representatives to accept this number of amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, although we always have amendments both serious and essential and such to improve the text of the law. These amendments simply had to be adopted, since without such amendments this legal text would not make any sense. We haven't written any amendments... Mr. Stojkovic here thanked the MPs for their co-operation, for the large number of amendments he accepted, etc. We, Minister, have not written these amendments for your sake, nor to help you, have we written these amendments because they are an integral part of the text of the law Mr Petar Jojic released in the procedure of the federal government in 2000. What's wrong with you here? That you didn't accept all our amendments. The one I'm talking about right now, and the one that was just talked about, they're really formal, because of the precision of the text. It would be good and we expected you to adopt them. You will see through the debate, there are several amendments without which, by simply failing to adopt this law will not be good and will not be acceptable to the SRS parliamentary group. In addition to your participation in the work with the MPs and on the Committee, and we know your views on the amendments you have accepted, but about amendments you have not accepted, we do not know your views or the views of the Government. We didn't get a written report from the government, and we should have. When we spoke on committees, you didn't explain much. Simply, you said – this cannot be accepted, and this is accepted on the basis of the arguments given by the amendment and given. That's why I expect every amendment you can't or won't accept to say, on behalf of the government, which is why you won't. If I insist now that we get the government's opinion, and only to see who the chairman is, since Mr. Mihailovic, and he's right there, he would say right away – it's an emergency procedure and the government is not obliged to inform you. Still, I think the government should communicate with the MPs. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you also adopt this amendment and this former Mr. Nemanje Sarovic. When you look at the whole with this proposed text, you'll see that a better solution is, more precisely, clearer. I have no doubt that your intention is that the law that is brought here is both precise and clear and applicable. So accept these other amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, and only then will you have a valid text of the criminal code.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20080	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted together. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law, which we are discussing by emergency procedure, along with a set of other laws, where a huge number of amendments have been adopted, points to one speed at which this law has been passed. I am pleased that Mr. Minister is present now when we are discussing amendments. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that you weren't when we talked about the law principle, when I pointed out here that animal abuse is meant for up to six months, and for the abuse of people, citizens up to one year; when we said that in a large number of members of the law relating to election theft it was regulated by minimum fines, as initial penalties. I think it was the government's duty to react to that, and I expect you to say something about these issues now. Let me go back to Article 15. In Article 15, the title is - the execution of a criminal act by inaction. Then, in Sections 1 and 2 of the same article, a criminal offence is being committed. The crime is committed, the title is to commit a crime and there is no reason to change the criminal termology, which is legal-technical, which has been established, which everyone knows, to the crime committed. The execution is the title of the act, and I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't adopt it. You have adopted us, Mr. Pajovic and I, a dozen amendments, but I hope the government doesn't think, if they adopt those other amendments that stand and can be adopted, they shouldn't be adopted. I think that's a very important question and that termology is really unusually important. Please say a few words about it. After all, there will be many more words about this law in public, perhaps much more than during its preparation, so it will be analysed, watched and wondered, when comparing notes and records from this assembly, why something was not adopted, if it could be adopted. Which could have been the reasons, people and interpreters will be asked in different ways. It's not such a crucial question, but the termology is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20082	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20083	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian Radical Party MP Kutic Bora has submitted an amendment to Article 18 and has suggested that Article 3 be deleted. Why? First of all, the proposed member foresees what are minor crimes. In point 3, this is closer to being marked. However, a prison sentence of up to eight years has been prescribed in the act of extortion. The question now arises – will the sentence of prison be imposed and the extortion, which belongs to a group of serious crimes, be considered and normed, applied and defined as a small crime. If an extortion is prescribed for a sentence of one to eight years and in that case, the perpetrator of a crime could also consider this a criminal offence to be a milder punishment and to be considered a small part of the extortion. I believe that this amendment is absolutely correct and that Article 3 should be deleted because it will cause major problems in the application of the criminal code provisions, when it comes to extortion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20084	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20085	So that there is no confusion after what Mr. Jojic said, it is a crime, an act of little importance. Paragraph 1 states: "It is not a crime that, although it contains the traits of crime, is an act of little importance." It's going from some assumptions, etc. "The act is of little importance if the degree of guilt of the perpetrator is low," for most acts, for not to be punished, "if the adverse consequences are absent or insignificant and if the general purpose of criminal sanctions does not require criminal sanctions" and the general purpose is to combat criminal acts. Those first two attitudes can be accepted, but what stands as a restriction in paragraph 3 is unacceptable to us. He says, "The provisions of Article 1 and 2 of this article can be applied to criminal acts for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for up to three years or fines." It's no good to stand this restriction. Now it will seem a little contradictory to what Jojic said earlier. There shouldn't be any restriction, for the simple reason why it's a question of whether or not we've properly measured sanctions for certain crimes in a particular part. It could be prescribed somewhere as minimum punishment, say, for five years, and there's essentially no adverse consequences. I'd just draw your attention to the conspiracy, the failed attempt, the excess of the perpetrator, etc. Minister, you know how problematic co-execution is both in theory and in practice. Then the question really arises, if you give these restrictions, if only the prescribed fine or prison sentence is up to three years, there may be a small act of small importance, and if a slightly sharper sanction is prescribed, that it is not possible, the team before these three conditions are given alternatively, not cumulatively. So if the degree of guilt of the perpetrator is low, and it's possible that the degree of guilt of the perpetrator is low, and the consequence of being severe. I'll take an example, an example of Rasim Ljajic. He holds documentation on war crimes against Serbs in the former BiH. He treats the paperwork like alaibeg's straw. He doesn't care about that at all. The papers explain how this documentation rots, etc. Now I'm going to get to know the public. You see, on September 18th and 19th 1995, the Croatian Army carried out the action "Drina-Una". A monument was built in Novigrad, and the monument reads "the victims of Ustasha terror". Furthermore, residents in Kostanica died in the same action, in Kozarska Dubica, and on October 10, 1995, Mrkonjic City was attacked by the Croatian Ustasha Army, and in the action "Maestral" was won by Drvar, and on October 10, 1995, Mrkonjic City. NATO bombing data at Ozren in 1995 during the offensive mujahedin, which are being prosecuted worldwide. The documentation stands, someone hid that documentation, and then took this unfortunate Radoslav Stojanovic, as some legal representative, to negotiate, agreements. Now, you explain to me: Minister Rasim Ljajic's inaction has what consequences for this country and for this people? Is that part of little importance? I'm connecting this article to those forms of committing a crime. Inaction, first of all, applies to officials. So matter is very problematic. That's why we suggested that item 3 be deleted. Paragraphs 1 and 2 provide sufficient grounds to assess, from case to case, whether or not a particular act is an act or an act or an act of individual being of minor importance. Here he says – the degree of guilt of the perpetrator is low, the consequences of absent or minor, and if the general purpose of criminal sanctions does not require the imposition of criminal sanctions. The general purpose is to curb crime. Think about it a little bit, I think this is a limitation from attitude 3 unnecessary, a team before court practice can form a quality attitude very quickly. As long as he's not formed by these high court culprits, they're releasing drug dealers. We have in the Supreme Court who release drug dealers, we have in the Supreme Court -- they reduce the sentence of those who killed a taxi driver in a cruel and beastly way on the Belgrade-Pancevo road. Let them find me some extenuating circumstance. We'll see how it goes with the ones who killed the cab driver at the Vidikovec, so they killed a few more people to Chuck, so the newspaper explained, that I'm not prejudicing things, maybe it's not true, maybe it is. But let's see how they interpret the purpose of punishment. They're releasing a drug dealer. Of course, then, with the issued statement of the High Council of Justice angry with the National Assembly for not accepting their suggestions. We won't accept more, at least as far as the SRS is concerned, until we check everything out, who his dad is, who his mom is, how he worked, why he worked, how much he studied, how much he has the rate of solved cases. We're going to examine everything - and who he's with, who he's not with, everything, whether someone likes it or not. Let them object to the Serbian Radical Party. Last time it fell 17, and this time when you do, Ministers, not you, but the High Council of Justice, when he gives this decision to elect the president of the courts, he will only see how much the president of the courts will fall. We're collecting documentation for everyone, because there's got to be some sort of order at last. I guess the court is there to protect the rights and laws of the prescribed interests of the citizens. I guess that's why it exists. If a man has a conflict, so call the court to resolve it, there comes a situation to determine that someone had a stronger relationship, or someone on the side, it doesn't matter how the case ended, then, please, if we have such courts, we don't have authority, we don't have a state. I'm just suggesting that you adopt this amendment, because it is in the spirit of all that you propose to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20086	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20087	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by amendment to Article 43, are scheduled to delete point 4 and that point refers to the new sentence introduced by this law, which is the withdrawal of the driver's license. It is unnatural and unknown in the parallel right that there is the same measure of security and punishment. Namely, the Criminal Code provides for a measure of safety of the ban on motor vehicle management, and this is about the penalty for the withdrawal of the driver's license. So it's essentially the same thing, only it's one punishment, and the other is the measure and what's said in different terms. However, in order to withdraw the driver's license, as penalties, a case is envisaged if the perpetrator used the vehicle to carry out the crime. It's completely unnecessary, and what a colleague throws away, that's what everyone does now, usually the crimes are done no more and they don't do without a vehicle. Here we can use an example, let's say, if there's a gun in the vehicle that's loaded, so it's a gun trade, then his car is taken away, he's given a couple of years in prison, and when he gets out of prison, it takes another two years not to drive a car at all. You really can't see any purpose of this punishment. Of course, the measure of safety of the ban on driving vehicles is pronounced in the event that the perpetrator of a criminal offence has violated some traffic law, it is perfectly normal and logical. It is certain that practice will not apply this penalty, because no purpose can be seen. She'll only be one newspaper to get something new into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20088	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 53rd Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajovic and together by MPs Petar Jojic and Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petar Jojic and I have submitted a joint amendment to Article 53. He says this member is deleted. It is illogical to impose a penalty for withdrawing the driver's license, as proposed in this article, if we already have a measure of safety of the ban on driving a motor vehicle. In parallel, some countries are prescribed that the perpetrator has been sentenced to a sentence of imprisonment or to fines for a criminal offence committed by driving a motor vehicle or in connection with driving a motor vehicle, or for infringing his duties as a motor vehicle driver. This, as a rule, is pronounced when there is no measure of safety of the ban on driving a motor vehicle. Therefore, there is no indication of the safety of the ban on motor vehicle management, as set out in Article 79. The bill also states the penalty for withdrawing the driver's license. This would not be in line with the provisions of the laws of some countries of parallel law, for example, paragraph 44. Federal Republic of Germany's criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20090	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, then Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20091	I could understand that this punishment is prescribed for a serial killer who tends to commit crimes in a car, etc. I don't think this could go past us for one simple reason, which is almost impossible today, not that it's impossible, but in most of the criminal acts, the means of transport are being used, so whether as part of a plan or as a result of a fact that a man from A should get to B where he should commit the crime, where he planned to commit the crime. Now, in addition to those sanctions prescribed, and the prison, etc., it's still going to take away the driver's license. I don't think it's a clear purpose that wants to be achieved by this, because it says "with whose execution or preparation a motor vehicle has been used." We also have a situation with taxi drivers. Someone comes in, gets in a cab, supposedly puts a gun down and says, "Drive me here and there, end there, wait for me; anything can happen." We have situations, and rightly so, I'm not going to point to the name and last name now, where some organized group of people broke into a man's apartment, held more or less violently as hostages of the family, hired him to do something, and here he is, two years in custody waiting for the trial to begin. Is that so or not, I can't say, nor judge, but there's no reason for the detention to be lifted because the defendant of one of the defendants doesn't come to the hearing. I think that's a mild reason not to put an end to detention. I think in this modern time, where a vehicle is not a luxury, where there's a desperate need... Earlier, Mr. Plužarevic and Mr. Pajovic made a fine point of some modes where the means of transport was used to carry out the crime: goods found in the vehicle or a group transferred, etc. Detachment of vehicles and these things – that can be understood. The withdrawal of the driver's license is simply not clear. I'm more in favour of this amendment for principled reasons, not for having to have a driver's license someone who's lying in jail and holding a prison sentence. He won't be able to use his driver's license anyway, but this is one of the papers in this law. And even from what's written here in these four positions, you can't see the essence of why this measure is proposed. If it were specific perpetrators of criminal offences, where educational measures could not produce results, withdrawal of the driver's license for three months, etc.; if there is no result, then relatively for a longer period of time to withdraw the driver's license, I can accept it. It's pointless here, a man sentenced to five years in prison, and now that he's out, they're taking away his driver's license again, and maybe the essence of that part has nothing to do with driving. That's what this is about. So maybe we don't overstep a bit. So we fully agree that this educational measure remains, to be according to the one who tends to commit criminal acts to the motor vehicle, regardless of whether he is drunk, drugged or otherwise. There's some reason, but as you've prescribed, from the first to the fourth, you can't see. This is the first thing you said, he says – I will commit a criminal offence in connection with whose execution or preparation a motor vehicle has been used can be charged with withdrawing the driver's license. Amongst us, 50% of the crimes before or after the crime were used by a motor vehicle. Now let's take the situation that it's not so much progress, so that the donkey came from A to B, committed a crime. You want to take the donkey, you won't. It doesn't make any sense. Vehicle - donkey, it's the same, it's a means of transport. A horse is a means, but there's no traffic permit to fly a horse. I think the idea was one, which we support, but the formulation doesn't fit. Because of this formulation, this really does not make sense. A man gets his driver's license taken away. The criteria, the court may decide, which is the second criterion where there is something, it says—in a relationship, before or after, with the execution of the crime. In the city probably over 50% of the crimes have something to do with the means of transport. The man simply went to the car cottage, turned out to be a problem on the border there, it ended as it ended, and now his driver's license is being taken away. What does a fight have to do with a neighbor with a driver's license? There isn't. There's something else that needs to be installed to make sure that there's some tendency to commit crimes on the vehicle. It's kind of pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20092	The word is made by MP Petar Jojic, and then by MP Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20093	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Vitomir Plužarevic and MP Zoran Krasic, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, gave a valid explanation when it comes to Article 53. It's a bill of law. Namely, I wouldn't explain what the MPs of the SRS pointed out, but I would just like to draw your attention that there should be two sanctions in our criminal code on the same part. The sanction is also the confiscation as a measure of security of withdrawal of the driver's license. It's a sanction. Secondly, prescribing a criminal offence, withdrawing a driver's license is contrary to all of this legislation in criminal law. I also studied international comparative law. I paid particular attention to the federal code of law of the Federal Republic of Germany. In paragraph 44 of the German Penal Code, it is only prescribed that it can be taken as a measure of security to withdraw the driver's license for a certain period of time, with it exclusively related to criminal offences in the case of a traffic transaction. This proposal, referred to in Article 53, does not distinguish whether it will apply to all criminal acts where a motor vehicle or for a particular type of criminal offence has been used, in which case it might find a foothold, if this part, or this member, could be kept in the bill. Therefore, if a parallel right does not provide for two sanctions, we have no excuse that, because we consider it necessary to pass a new criminal code, we additionally burden the criminal code through this provision and provide for another sanction that will be absolutely difficult to apply. What's the big deal? In Article 53. The bill - the withdrawal of the driver's license, paragraph 4, reads: "If a convicted driver manages a motor vehicle during the period of detention of the driver's license, the court will replace the sentence of withdrawal of the driver's license by setting a month's imprisonment for one year. "This is extremely problematic in criminal law. It was more effective, and more correct and more applied, to impose a security measure to withdraw the driver's license. It has also had certain effects in our current criminal law, and in the law there should be no confusion and duplication, for the same fact and action, two measures. One measure of confiscation of the driver's license as a penalty, another ban on motor vehicle management for a specified period of time and a third sanction that the perpetrator of the criminal offence may encounter, i.e. the punishment for a certain criminal offence with which a criminal offence has been committed or the owner or any other person has been used by a motor vehicle in the execution of a criminal offence. For example, he went to Sopot, committed a felony, an example of breaking and entering, and should be punished for taking his driver's license, because he went with the vehicle to burglary, so he may be given the security measure of taking away his driver's license, and in addition for heavy theft to give him a proper prison sentence. Therefore, I think this will be an extremely problematic norm in the proposal for this law that the government has proposed. It was more correct to keep that provision from the 2000 criminal code, which the radicals wrote in the federal government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20094	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20095	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry as a lawyer and a lawyer that the criminal law has been written so clumsyly and that it is illogically precise about certain consequences. Neither is that what we want, nor is it socially justified. I'll give you an example about this. The crime was committed by a tractor, he's a farmer, and he's been convicted for ten years for some act. When he comes out after ten years he has no right, his driver's license has been revoked and he has no right to drive, and he's a farmer, he needs to feed his family, etc. In fact, we're achieving the opposite effect: since he can't do his job as a farmer, he can get into a situation where he's doing new crimes. So something that's not completely logical and not acceptable. We have the same amendment as the Members of the Serbian Radical Party. However, they have failed to attack Article 43(4), as this amendment cannot be adopted unless our amendment to Article 43(4) has been adopted previously. Therefore, it is essential to adopt our amendments as a whole, and I think it is necessary, given that these two provisions go fully together.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20096	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20097	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make a different opinion that will go into favour of the legislator to provide for a ban on motor vehicle management as a measure of safety and the withdrawal of the driver's license as a punishment. I deliberately apostrophe that when a driver's license was withdrawn, it was a new kind of punishment, and a ban on driving a motor vehicle as a type of safety measure that already existed. This is the first and basic difference that the amendment's proposings do not respect sufficiently. The second difference is that the safety measure for the ban on driving a motor vehicle is expressed only to the person who is at risk of public traffic. The purpose of the security measure, I would not agree with the previous speaker, is not to socialise the tractor, but to prevent such crimes from being committed, or to protect the damaged part from the future of such a person's driving. So again in favor of the theory that the damaged must be more protected than the accused, because the damaged suffered the consequences of committing the crime. Furthermore, the withdrawal of a driver’s license is a punishment, not a security measure, indicates the possibility of a month’s imprisonment being substituted for a year, or a year when someone is driving a car, and has a sentence of confiscation, to be replaced by a month’s imprisonment. So it's about punishment. As the fourth thing, which is very important, the withdrawal of the driver's license is related to those crimes whose preparation is carried out by using the motor vehicle. It's about people who do it as a profession, and it's kind of a measure of fighting organised crime, meaning they're dealing with driving criminals, who are involved in the use of cars to commit crimes against life and bodies and all other crimes other than crimes that threaten public traffic. That's why it's just rightly classified into a new kind of punishment. I suggest that the Assembly not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20098	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the argument made by my predecessor has yet to be accepted, and that is precisely why this punishment should not be used. He said the purpose of punishing the perpetrators is not to commit crimes in the future. If someone got ten years of prison and three years of ban on driving a motor vehicle, if they couldn't influence him from committing crimes by lying in prison for ten years, then it's safe to withdraw his driver's license won't affect him, because if he wants to commit a felony, his driver's license doesn't need anything. Therefore, the purpose of punishment cannot precisely be achieved by this kind of punishment, but only the security measure can be applied to those who do not comply with traffic regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20100	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there were any of this law, Batic would have been withdrawn from his license two months ago when he deliberately stepped on his neighbor's head; fighting over the border, this car in reverse, and that state car, and the neighbor stuck in the hospital. However, the criminal case against Batic has not yet been initiated on this issue. His state car was taken from him, but his license wasn't taken from him. What about the so-called. Minister Dinkic? On October 6th, there were Kalashnikovs and socks in the state car as he entered the National Bank, and the state car went to the National Savings Bank. On a state plane, he went to Cyprus, found some three and a half billion, sent them to Seishelska, Devicanska and some other exotic islands. What about Velya Ilic, etc? Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that in the voting day you press the green button when this amendment is in order and we adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20102	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20103	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, section 59. The draft law has been proposed by the proposer to align the perpetrator and damaged in criminal proceedings. In paragraph 1, it is proposed: "The court may exempt the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to three years has been prescribed or fined if, on the basis of the agreement reached with the injured, it has fulfilled all the obligations under the agreement. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes this proposal should be changed and complemented. What's the problem here? If the legislator considers it necessary to leave the possibility of a damaged person to be with a public prosecutor, i.e. a private prosecutor, or damaged in criminal proceedings, to agree, but it is necessary to determine what the agreement can be concluded on. In my opinion, the agreement can only be reached in relation to the damage done by a criminal offence, because it is unacceptable for a damaged and perpetrator to be able to conclude any other agreement other than a compensation agreement committed by a criminal offence. What's the problem here? What's gonna happen in practice? In practice, the injured and perpetrator of the crime may conclude immoral agreements, illegal agreements under the law. It is said to be required to join a particular political party, and this will be an agreement, to be included in the sect, to serve as an informant, to deal with illicit acts in a hidden manner. That's why I personally think there's no other agreement. We believe that the agreement can be concluded, but only an agreement on the compensation of the damage done to the crime or the removal of other consequences of the crime. Everything else is problematic, everything else will be complicated in application and we will have the possibility that the legislator has given persons the opportunity to conclude immoral, illegal and illicit agreements. What's there to discuss now, the damaged and perpetrator of the crime, about what? So, just about the work done and the removal of the harmful consequences of that part and nothing else. Everything else opens wide-ranging possibilities that in practice we will have illegal, illegal, immoral and anti-constitutional agreements. That is why I believe that this amendment is absolutely acceptable and the SRS points out that it draws attention to the promoter that he must pay attention, because here he will create opportunities for abuses and for manipulation of the accused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20104	The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Petar Jojic should be adopted for several reasons. First, there's really nothing else between the perpetrator of a crime and the damage they could bargain about, except these damages and the way in which the damages were compensated. However, the state has been in big trouble since "Sablje" because "Sablja" has detained 12,000 people, there have been hundreds of lawsuits, about 40 or 50 verdicts made. How the state will compensate all those people, I mean those 12,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is it the one who's damaged, say, in "Sabreya", his country's guilty, is the writer of his criminal charges based on which he was arrested? Anyway, it's been put under the ice and it's been under the rug for over two years. Next, if you're up to three years old, what about the mass of crimes that the same person committed? Vladan Batic as justice minister is directly responsible for those 12,000 people; the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the chief; of course also Natasa Micic, who introduced the state of emergency and made it possible for an unserious, immature to blame 12,000 people. What about Natasa Kandic, who has been slapping a man for 80 years, though, I read in the paper the other day, that refugee from Kosovo who came to ask for his loved ones to be found, and Natasa Kandic passed and slapped him. The judiciary freed Natasha Kandic. He can slap whoever he wants and whoever he meets. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when you see Natasha Kandic on the street, you move to the other side so she doesn't beat you up, because she won't answer to this law and to this country. She's completely irresponsible to her. She's not subject to laws. Unresponsible are considered only persons with impaired consciousness, and since this authority, namely how this ministry has placed Natasha Kandic in that group so that she can do whatever she wants and doesn't answer anyone, that the laws don't apply to her, let the minister think about how the judiciary is doing to him. In any case, if it were to respond individually to all the crimes that many of the Sabres have come to, and for God's sakes, before "Sablje", ever since "the Bulldozer of the Revolution", they have done to individuals, according to the groups in this country, according to the citizens of this country, some would not have had enough nine lives to enslave everything they have earned, and I therefore believe that this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20106	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I would share my opinion here with the amendment's promoters, if I thought this was one repair that significantly repairs the content of the norm. We have also expressed such an opinion on the Committee on Justice and I do not think that any agreement and any alignment between the damaged and the accused can be allowed. Of course, other procedural laws, and here we're talking about material, but I'm going to talk about litigation law, don't allow all agreements and all possible alignments between parties in the dispute, and I think something like that should be predicted here, too. Furthermore, I believe that the text of article 59 represents an extremely significant newspaper in the application of criminal law and a stronger position of damage, for which I personally am very much in favour, and I believe that the article in 42 had to have a general purpose of punishment and point 4), where this would indeed be satisfactory and damage to the damaged. Our criminal legislation, unfortunately, has so far not been overly inclined to protect the interest of the damaged, unless, under the protection of the interests of the damaged, we mean the protection of the general interest. However, I must say that they are damaged by criminal acts in a small number of cases unsatisfactory by such treatment of their individual rights. A provision such as this provision of article 59 leads to the fact that, to a certain extent, easier crimes are given priority to the individual interest of the damaged and that its rights are protected. That this amendment is indeed correct and that it leads to an improvement, i.e. the improvement of the text of the norm, is a position 2, which really sets out the elimination of the consequences of the part or the damage compensation, which is actually the meaning of the amendment to paragraph 1. I think this is something for the promoter that can accept and improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20108	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20109	We have submitted an amendment to Article 60(3). Point 3) is that if all criminal offences are subject to a prescribed sentence of up to three years, the single sentence cannot be more than 10 years in prison. The amendment put in place – a single sentence cannot reach the set of fines set or be more than 10 years in prison. The amendment is necessary to adopt, as a situation may occur to impose two sentences per two years in prison and to impose a sentence of six years in prison as a single sentence if the sentence cannot exceed the set of penalties set. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, because this is logical, and I think you should suggest that this amendment be adopted, because we would have some absurd situations. I know it's your practice that means that you can't go beyond the set of fines, but if we have three times two years and give nine years in prison, so on and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20110	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Heliana Dragojevic, Zivodarka Dacin, Slobodan Zivkucin, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic and Djordje Cukvas. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my colleagues from the Committee on Gender Equality (as you can see, the majority of our members of the Committee on Gender Equality have signed, so we consider it an amendment to the Committee) I have submitted an amendment to a member who speaks of a probationary verdict, which reads: "The probation court determines the criminal offence and at the same time determines that it will not be carried out, if convicted during a time set by the court, which cannot be shorter than one or more than five years, does not commit a new crime. "The position of the 2nd member on which I have submitted the amendment reads: "The court may, in a conditional sentence, determine that the sentence will be carried out and if convicted within a specified period", and I have suggested that after the word "in a certain time" the words are inserted - contact with the damaged person, stays in the rooms where he is being damaged and if he does not undergo the appropriate treatment for the offenders, "he shall not return the property benefit obtained by carrying out the offence, nor shall he compensate for the damage he has caused by the criminal act or does not fulfil other obligations provided for in the criminal provisions. "Our committee felt that contacting the damaged, staying in the rooms in which they were being damaged, and if not properly treated for the bully, when crimes related to domestic violence are necessary and such a treatment of parole. In fact, we are surprised that Mr. Minister did not find that such an amendment is necessary, that the conditional condemnation by it should be extended in order for domestic violence to be interrupted in a way that is less or less necessary to try to eradicate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20112	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20113	Ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of some of their aspirations to affirm protection and the right to damage, I think this is another good amendment, and I think it absolutely fits into the text of the law and does not give up on the concept of the law, and it would not be a problem for the Proposer to accept it, and I suggest that he accept it. Why would I suggest that? First, for reasons that truly damaged are not sufficiently protected in our criminal law and the practice of courts when tried in error. Secondly, as a lawyer, I’m a lawyer very often in a situation where I answer the question of what a husband should do when he divorces his husband and lives in the same apartment. How does she protect herself now? I have no answer to that question and I say – there only the Lord God can help you. An amendment like this creates certain conditions to call off a person's parole, and I mean violence on both sides, unless he just returns property benefit, not only compensates for damage, but if someone is harassed in a variety of ways, such as staying in the same room, such as contacting when that one does not want another series of subtle ways to be abused and abused, and yet there may be a measure of protection of the damaged. Given the composition of our MPs who have proposed something like this, this amendment should be reviewed and it has a lot of grounds to be incorporated into the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20114	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20115	This amendment should not be accepted. The layman's approach is so indicated it's just amazing. What does that mean - contact with the damaged, stays in the rooms. Which rooms? At the restaurant? The hotel? A movie? They can't be in the same room, right? This is just so laymanically written, inaccurately, so I'm surprised the MPs didn't take care of any details. The mood for the amendment is not an argument for the amendment. This shouldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20116	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Heliana Dragojevic, Zivodarka Dacin, Slobodan Zivkucin, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic and Djordje Cukvas. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20117	I just have to make some remarks about this-- the layman's writing of the amendment, which my colleague Mamula was talking about. Dude, when it comes to domestic violence, it's not even the bar. It's not a bar, it's not a random meeting, it's not a room you don't know what it's about. [[Jorge Mamula, from the place: Is this a replica?]] Therefore, I would ask you to refrain from such comments. On article 79 under the title - Types of Security, eight members of the Committee on Gender Equality of which are two men, so I would not like to get the impression that women are amendments, they are common amendments to us and our colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to which, as a measure of security, we have also asked for a ban on contact with damaged and mandatory psychological counselling and treatment of violent persons. The 79th article refers to the perpetrator of a crime for whom security measures are expressed, in the criminal part of domestic violence. In the current Criminal Code and the current Code of Criminal Code, Article 194 provides for a crime of domestic violence. Many researches have shown that the greatest number of perpetrators of this crime again commits violence against family members, regardless of whether a criminal trial is conducted and whether there are convictions for a crime. In order to achieve preventive protection and to prevent repetitive violent behaviour towards family members, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of giving adequate security measures, that is to say, those security measures that would make contact with the victim impossible and enable the bully to be subjected to psychological counselling and treatment. A security measure -- a ban on contact with damaged persons should lead to the prevention of further violent behavior of the perpetrator when the circumstances identified suggest the danger of re-enactment. The measure of security - subjecting violent persons to psychological counselling and treatment, is also very important, especially if it is given the fact that experience shows us that the abusers are not prone, nor are they motivated to submit voluntarily to psychological treatment. These measures aim to lead to changes in the behavior of violent men, to develop the skills of communication, to identify stressful situations and to respond adequately to them, and to learn new strategies to solve problems. The introduction of the proposed measures is particularly important, given the Family Law which does not provide for the possibility of a court in a litigation procedure, in addition to the measures of family and legal protection provided for by it, to impose a security measure. We believe that these measures would contribute to better and more complete protection of victims and thus better achieve the goals of prevention in the form of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20118	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted to the 80th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 81, where it is foreseen that the perpetrator, who has committed a criminal offence in a situation of significantly reduced accountability, may be given mandatory psychiatric treatment and custody in an appropriate medical institution, if, in view of the crime committed and the state of mental disorder, the court finds that there is a serious danger that the perpetrator is committed and a serious criminal offence. Our amendment is that it can be done in case there is a danger of the perpetrator committing a new crime. What's the difference between the bill and our amendment? The amendment also implies that the perpetrator, who has committed a criminal offence in a situation of significantly reduced accountability, may be punished by mandatory psychiatric treatment and care in a medical institution in the event of and that there is a risk of committing a criminal offence. It doesn't have to be such a milder crime that it contains such a low degree of social danger, that it shouldn't be done this way to the perpetrator of the crime. I don't think there should be a case of application of this member just for a serious crime, and the argument that the court can't take this abuse in any way, because the court has no right and must not abuse the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20120	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted the 82nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the motions at the Committee's session propose that this amendment be adopted, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20121	Six more amendments with corrections have been accepted. It needs a formal legislative committee to confirm that this is legally possible and it will be an integral part of the bill. I think it's about colleague Krasic, Verice Radetti and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20122	Members of the 139th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140 of Rule 5 and Article 145. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. A representative of the committee meeting has adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee will also enter into force during the day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 143 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20123	I have to say at first I don't understand why the government didn't accept this amendment. (The Faith of Radeta, from the scene: 'Cause the government does it. ) It's a criminal offense - unauthorized listening and recording. I asked the amendment to regulate the range of penalties in paragraph 1. I also agree with the previous amendment of Pajovic -- technical devices, where it is closer to explaining what it refers to. But it may be in the word "devices" contained the word "technical" etc., but it doesn't matter to this amendment of mine. So the first position is, "Whoever unauthorizedly listens to or records a conversation, a statement, or any statement that is not intended for it, will be fined or jailed for up to two years." That's the government's proposal. I ask that it be changed and that it be punished by a prison of six months to two years. Why? You see, in these three years, according to some newspapers, we've been buried in conversations between some faces, and we don't even know if it was authorized or not. We've got free listening legalized. Then we had the opportunity to read that for a million dollars it was possible to provide listening equipment, that some centres existed on the French mountain, one was using the Zemun clan, one was using the Surcin clan, one was using the Baby, the other was using Chad, Meba, etc. etc. I only filed this amendment because in 2003 the Telecommunications Act was passed here. It seems to me that it was during a state of emergency, so there was no TV transmission, maybe the public was denied some information. You see, that famous divisor that exists in Telekom used to be PTT, when there was a unique company, where the key holds a member of state security; it comes in nice, opens up, set up, and can listen to every conversation, record. There's talk there - by order of an investigative judge, at the time of the Supreme Court, no, there's no order, whoever has the key can listen, he doesn't need any orders. Probably in the future criminal code, or criminal code, but as it is called, we have to have one provision that prohibits the use of evidence that is illegally provided. So, if it wasn't an order to follow a person, listening, then everything that's been provided against a person can't be used as evidence in some official court procedure. I think at this time of technological domination, not just taps, but Internets, etc. You have to threaten much greater punishment for these acts where, in some ways, the inalienable right of an individual to free communication, correspondence. There's a danger of abuse and funny conversations and some conversation, just to be surprised that we get a stenogram of a conversation in the paper without knowing who authorized someone to listen, etc. I think it's necessary to increase the sentence, but also to apply this provision of criminal law. We're free to write everything and everything when it's not applied. This is a good example to point to, and it seems to me to be the fourth point of this criminal set, the amendment and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's kind of about this part. You see, formally-lawfully, if the BIA was listening and following a person on a warrant who acted on an investigative judge and came up with some data, then after the Supreme Court comes up with a solution and says it's not valid, because it's not a MUP, it's a BIA. That's why we're changing that criminal code. Then this BIA man, who collected this data, committed a crime not only by this member, but also by the existing criminal law. (Zoran Stojkovic, from the place: They are not equal. I agree, but I point to the absurdity of this fourth point. I'm talking about it. It doesn't make sense, the investigating judge approved, gave a warrant to listen to the NN face because of a reasonable suspicion that he was in organized crime, etc. Now, according to the appeal, he comes to the Supreme Court and the famous criminal council of the Supreme Court says - please, this right has a MUP, no BIA. When the criminal code was passed, the BIA was part of the MUP. On the board, I told you, because of inadequate interpretation or tendingly wrong interpretation of some people in the Supreme Court, we are now changing the law. We're getting into a situation -- turkey dots, don't count, joked the BIA guy who was listening, etc., was still on the trail, and determined what he was doing and why he was doing it. If an individual is going to be free in this way in connection with this crime, it means, in a legal way, based on an investigative judge's orders, he's going into his freedom, and that's where he has to be handled very cautiously. That's why there's a provision on how long it takes. If there's nothing, it's being destroyed, like there's never been a special measure to that person that she didn't know about. But here's the contradiction and how present. It's against the law that leads to social danger. I fully agree that this work is very difficult to control. UBPOK probably has its own apparatus to monitor, the military, the police, Telekom, Mobtel, and these others, they need to show what evidence is that someone has hacked into the system and is listening unauthorizedly, if technically feasible. If it's possible, to clear that up. If you watch Article 143 set up, there's no greater problem. I agree, any word can have a broader and narrow interpretation. It's possible and it's broader and it's a rope interpretation, but illegality is the most important thing. So someone, especially in attitude 2, found out unauthorized by a person who had authorized something to do. There's a sanction here. I agree with you that there may be a small contradiction between attitude 1 and attitude 3 in terms of our amendment. Now it turns out that for attitude 1, we predict a minimum sentence of six months, maximum of two years; for officials, it's abuse of official position practically, which wouldn't surprise me, you know, who's close to this, he can use it. The question is who needs to control the controller. Article 3 is intended as a minimum sentence of three months and a maximum of three years. According to the degree of social danger, I think there might be more punishment. Take what degree of social danger is when something that's unauthorized has been done, there's been some data, then it starts in the media talking about who said what, so we have a P.S., we have a sentence, a Z.N., a sentence, so this, this, this, this, this, that, at Sabre, you know those picnics, with curses, etc. etc. That's where the state fell, it didn't clear up the issue to the end. I think many are considered invited and authorized to do these things. They do these things day and day. How many states are able to stop this, I don't know. I know very reliably that a random encounter or phone conversation with the NN face has been recorded today. I don't want to spread paranoia to be followed -- just watching us, just looking at us, but that's the kind of thing. Therefore, it is necessary to threaten with far greater penalties, without being able to overextended or overexplain itself with an apology for those persons who are doing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20124	Minister Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20125	I agree with what Mr. Krasic said, just now to give a little explanation. We had two amendments. One was Zarka Obradovica, one was Krasicev. I agree that the sanctions need to be tightened. By sharing the common opinion that punishments should be tightened, we accepted the amendment of Zarko Obradovic – up to three years, not up to two years, so we tightened. The same goes to five here, and in that sense, we've accepted that the amendment becomes an integral part, so the penalties are more severe. Just that explanation to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20126	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a pure unknown to those who have embarked on proposing this way of sanctioning a very serious crime. You remember the affair in the history of listening aids. You remember the "Sabbe" action, who's everyone he's been listening to. You remember there were parallel and illegal technical means that were tapped by our citizens. Politicians, political party leaders, journalists were tapped. So, during the "Sabbe" action, there was no application of the criminal code. Again, I must say that I succeeded in the draft criminal code in 2000 to regulate this measure in a completely different way, and that means that no one else could have done without the approval and solution of an investigative judge to issue a listening measure. However, it is absolutely unacceptable for a fine to be predicted by someone who will listen to every living thing in this country. This has to be sanctioned as hard as possible, which means it can't be a fine. Imagine you: the National Security Council in the State, or the government ambush, or the Ministry of Defence, or the Ministry of Defence or the BIA sector, and now someone is listening to them and, of course, is using them against the state and the Republic of Serbia and its interests. No fine can be prescribed for such perpetrators of this crime, not by any chance. The punishment must be sharper. In this amendment, in the SRS' view, I suggested that the sentence be up to five years old, it must be sanctioned; not a fine, not one or two, up to five years. This is a dangerous crime. What damage the people and our citizens suffered during the Sabre action! Not many citizens are informed. Who did everything about listening to their conversations, their phones, their recording and movement and abuse? We had opportunities in the Security Committee, whose member I am along with Mr. Mamul, to come up with some knowledge of how the law was violated, how individuals listened to citizens, journalists, politicians and institutions working. As a result, the SRS is for the most severe penalties for listening and should end certain abuses, introduce order in this sphere, and not allow criminals to work against the state and the people and against the citizens themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20128	Mr. Markovic, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20129	No, Mr. Chairman, a minute, but two minutes and 25 seconds, I measured the time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the current Prime Minister was listening to nothing at that time. Baby Popovic had a complete listening apparatus, and today it's not a problem to get that apparatus. There is today. I'll only remind you of one piece of information. A brother from the uncle of a high-ranking Serbian state official, if I am challenged, I will say who he is (or else his nickname is Maniak, not this functioner, although he could, but this brother), and today he has a complete listening device and listens to 063. Otherwise, he worked at DB, then he wasn't BIA, today he's no longer working, and today he's listening to complete conversations on 063. Minister Jocic knows, the MUP knows and does nothing. Uncle's brother from across the street from Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20130	Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20131	Gentlemen of Parliament, the G17 plus, as part of the ruling coalition, will accept this amendment and we really appreciate the efforts that the government has made to accept all the good amendments. And we're really into tightening the penalty. Current policy shows in criminal punishment and legislation that we have new forms of crime. This is one of the forms in which work is intensified by certain forms of activity of so-called agencies dealing with detective affairs, protection affairs, etc. They should also be prevented from carrying out certain tasks in an unauthorized manner that can really be questioned, as colleagues here have said, and certain forms of state, official and other secrets; on the other hand, the right to the privacy of citizens, which is very important and where citizens have been almost completely unprotected so far. This criminal law, indeed by certain provisions, greatly improves the protection of citizens' privacy and precisely tightening sanctions, as proposed by the amendment's promoters, is in the direction of protecting the privacy of our citizens. I am really pleased that the government has defined itself to accept this amendment, because it is in the best interest of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20132	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that two new members of 145a and 145b be added after article 145a. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 148th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajovic. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: A 147a Zarka Obradovica? I don't have 147. Maybe he became an integral part. It's a withdrawn amendment. (Zoran Stojkovic, from place: Everything not accepted, Zarko Obradovic has withdrawn. He's retired. Now, Mr. Krassic, let's make it a little wrong for you, the amendment has been withdrawn. (Mira Vukovic, from the service, from the post: The chairman read which became an integral part and which were withdrawn. ) By written amendment were withdrawn by MPs Petar Jojic, Leila Ruždic, Zarko Obradovic, 147a withdrew. We've discussed it, Mr. Krassic. Better on time than later. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: It is a good amendment. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140 paragraph 5 and Article 145. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. A representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 161 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the motions at the Committee's session propose that this amendment be adopted, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. So this is where the Legislative Committee's report is missing that it's formally correct and then becomes an integral part of the law. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20133	Article 162 refers to the destruction of voting documents. "Who destroys, damages, confiscates or conceals a ballot or some other document on voting in the elections or in a referendum, will be fined or jailed by one year. If the act referred to in Article 1 makes a member of the electoral committee or another person in the exercise of office in connection with the vote, he will be sentenced to prison from three months to three years." The proposal of the SRS parliamentary group is to replace the words "from three months to three years" with "one to three years". It is truly incomprehensible to us that those who have been banging in pots and pots because of the election results have not accepted this amendment. You may think that there are no more problems that have caused you to pound into pots and pots sometimes, that there are no more in Serbia, but I will give you concrete examples to see how elections in Serbia are being stolen today. We from the Serbian Radical Party have always tried to protect the will of citizens and have always done so, unlike you, in an institutional way. We have invested, from objecting to constitutional appeal. Vojislav Seselj wrote the book "Falsified Will of the People". So we've always tried to protect the will of Serbian citizens and we're doing it now. What happened at the time when you were banging in pots and pots, when the Socialists were stealing votes in Kosovo and Metohija, you changed the area today. What the Socialists had was Kosovo and Metohija to you is a raška area, gentlemen so-called Democrats, which is for you to steal votes. We from the Serbian Radical Party have discovered incredible abuses and crimes in the last elections, presidentially, on the territory of the Tutin Municipality. We were showing journalists at a press conference from nine polling stations in our own time. A lay view of these copies from the electoral list could and could be seen that, for example, on one page of the ballot list 20 or how many voters have signed one, two or three. So, apparently, the same handwriting signed is derived from the voter's list. We filed a criminal report to the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Tutin. The municipality's public prosecutor in Tutin said there are no elements for prosecution and the Serbian Radical Party has filed nine private criminal charges against nine election board presidents in the Tutin municipality. I was personally authorized on behalf of the SRS and participated in these proceedings in the first-degree section of the City Court in Tutin. What I saw there and what has been unequivocally proven is a miracle, or wonder, that they are not in prison for the crimes they commit, or for the president of the election committee, but also for the judges who have reached acquittal. So, in all nine cases, the judges in Tutin have reached a liberating verdict with very interesting reasons, where they say that everything we have found as a violation of the electoral laws, that it is something common in the Tutin municipality. In direct contact with the judges, with the president of the municipal electoral commission, I was amazed, imagine the president of the municipal electoral commission in front of the judges says, and the judges accept it, that it is simply common in the Tutin municipality to always vote there, and I'll tell you later how. I asked them if you had any special laws or used the Law on the election of a president, or the Law on the Selection of Members of Parliament, which is subsidized in the election of a president in certain provisions. He says, no, we know what the law says, but what you're going to do is, it's common here, women don't want to go to the polls and then the husband comes and says, "I'm going to vote for my wife, I know what she thinks." He's voting for his wife. My son or daughter comes in and they say, "There's my father or mother, there's a lot of old, sick, they can't come, I'll vote for them." The president of the constituency committee says - how could I not, I know you, I know your mother, I know what you mean, vote brother, how could you not. It may seem funny to you, I can see that some are smiling at what I'm saying, but, my dear colleagues, this is true. These are facts and this is something that we in Serbia have to fight. How can we fight if not by law, if not by harsher punishment for the perpetrators of these crimes? What was done uncontestably in all the criminal charges in Tutin? Let's say, a vote without a ID. At each polling post, the election board president admits, acknowledges members of the electoral committee who have been questioned as witnesses, everyone says -- we know these people, we are right from there, from that polling post, we live here, how we can legitimize my neighbor, how my brother can legitimize, etc. So voting without a ID is an absolute phenomenon and no one question that it's possible any other way. I've already said, if they know that there's a sick person in the neighborhood, they don't think it's the way the law provides to report that he's sick, that he can't come to the polls, that the electoral board determines two or three people who are going to go home and vote there. No, they know the neighbor is sick, they know exactly how they're going to vote and accept that someone's going to vote instead. These signatures that were the Serbian Radicals' initiative to go into this process at all, these identical signatures, there no one slowed down, no one tried to tell us it wasn't true. From the president of the election board to all witnesses, whether it was the voters, whether they were members of the election board in a permanent or extended composition, everyone said -- yes, we allowed someone else to sign. I say, how can you confirm to me, to prove to the court that this someone instead of whom you signed the voter list was actually in that place? He says -- he was, of course, and they all know he was, but there's a woman there, so she won't, it's a shame to stand in line because it's crowded, to sign; so the older people in the Tutin municipality don't usually know how to write, especially women. It was an explanation that, most tragically, the judges accepted as an explanation that was enough for them to pass acquittals, and here they burned Belgrade for it. They've been banging in pots and pots here for months. When I tried to convince the judges that it was really a crime and, among other things, I asked – well, it's common, you say that older women in Tutin don't know how to write, how do you explain that they don't know how to write girls or women born since 1980 and some years, who have just become adult, who are 20 or 23 years old and men even, what is it? Witnesses come, the witness says – the woman never went to the election. The first time she went out to town was when her husband brought her as a witness and I barely convinced the judge that her husband couldn't be here until she testified. The woman says she's never been to the polls, whether her husband votes for her, whether she doesn't vote, to recognize her signature; she knows she's writing, she can't recognize her signature, she doesn't know her husband's signature, but she knows she's never been to the election. A young man, a policeman, tells the president of the election board, tells the judge – please don't make me a fool, I didn't vote, I worked nights, I was tired, I slept, I didn't vote, I insist someone who signed for me. I gave him the signature on the voter's list on the copy, the man said -- it's not my signature, and he insists that it be entered into the record; the judge dictates the record without it, only on my remarks he makes it into the record. So, amazing things. A certain Jasmine, now I can't remember the last name, completely identical data in one of the polling stations, recorded at 120 and 125. I suggested it for a witness and the court called and that woman said – I took two ballots, I always do so, I'm double-listed, I know always and everyone on the election board knows that I'm double-listed and they give me two ballots every time and every time I round and put two ballots in. Unbelievable, but true in the Tutin municipality. The mother and daughter, the daughter, says she is a fan of fire Boris Tadic, that she supported his campaign; all of this she said, I didn't ask her, the voter is, and I didn't ask her who she voted for, and I don't have the right to ask her; she says – I voted for Boris Tadic, I ran a campaign for Boris Tadic. I took the election board to my house to vote by my mother. The way you led them, did you report it? No, they know, so they left with me. The mother of that girl says (of course, I have all the names, I have all the data, but I don't have time to quote all that), so these girls who have been propagating and working in a campaign for Boris Tadic, she says -- they didn't come to me when the president was elected, they used to come here when we voted for someone from Tutina, that neighbor, but I didn't vote, my daughter voted, she brought them to coffee, I don't know what they were coming for, and I didn't give my ID card, and I didn't vote for anyone. Her daughter says – please, judge, how can you consider the opinion of a 75-year-old woman, how does she know whether she voted or didn't vote. Several cases of women who said that the husband voted on their behalf and those husbands confessed – yes, of course, I always vote for my wife, we know, we agree in the house. Imagine, they agree in the house who they vote for and then he leads as a representative of the family. Her mother says her daughter is studying in Sarajevo, she wasn't home, she can be checked that she wasn't in Tutina at all at the time, she had exams in Sarajevo, and she has no idea who voted for her, she's not, there aren't two other daughters who were also witnesses. So, a bunch of evidence that a felony has been committed and a court in Tutin is making a liberating verdict. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party has filed complaints, but for four months now, the District Court in Novi Pazar has not dared to do anything in our complaints. Probably every normal judge sees a crime committed here, but now it's a matter of whether he can confront Sulejman Ugljanin and the authorities in Tutin, and especially now that Sulejman Ugljanin and the government are, for God's sake, I don't know what's going to happen to the SRS complaints about... You're right, I'm still gonna answer for representing the party in these criminal cases. So I listed this as an example, dear colleagues, to remind you that the electoral thefts in Serbia have not stopped, that you are just so-called Democrats, and wherever you can steal a voice, you are doing it neatly. That's probably why you didn't accept the amendment of counterpart Vitomir Plužarevic, who anticipated a harsher sentence for the election theft. It is particularly unclear that the 161st member - falsifying the results of the vote, where Mr Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment, and for - destroying the voting documents, the amendment was not accepted. Indeed amazing, but I hope the arguments that I have made here convince you to vote for this amendment in the voting day, because what you are doing now in the Rusk area of the Serbian Radical Party, you will do so between you. Of course, we are from the Serbian Radical Party never, and we will never steal any votes and we will always respect the will of the Serbian citizens, but you will not protect yourself with this law, and you will protect each other, but it is not easy when all of you, who are now the ruling coalition, are supposed to share between you 9% or 11% of Serbian citizens, then, for that 1% or 2% to fight. Of course, we from the Serbian Radical Party, regardless of the election successes and the one we achieved yesterday in The Tower and anyone who will achieve the future, fight and insist that the will of Serbian citizens in the elections must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20134	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 163 is identical in essence to the amendment that we have tabled and to the next Article 164. So I'm going to talk about both amendments at the same time. In fact, these members are foreseen that one who knowingly does not comply with the law or other regulations, collective agreements will be fined by fines etc. The bottom line is "knowledge." We predicted that the term "awarely" should be replaced – who deliberately does not adhere to the law or other regulations, etc. The term "knowledge" is an element of accountability, it comes to the concept of a definition of accountability, and this is about a form of wine. In this way, as the bill is regulated, there will be confusion, because it will not be possible to know with certainty and precision what this term "knowledge" refers to, whether it is just imagination or awareness of inadequacy, and let's just say, unconscious inadequacy is not about responsibility. In view of the type of crime, we believe that they can only be carried out with imagination. It would be possible with direct and potential imagination, although it would be natural for these crimes to be committed with intent, or direct imagination. I think it's cellular and logical for this amendment to be adopted on both members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20136	Is anyone else answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20137	If it remains what is written in Articles 163 and 164, I will extend it to that member, since my predecessor has expanded it; therefore, Article 163 and 164 and with the adoption of this amendment would mean that all directors are going to jail. Whether or not I need to, I don't know, but that would mean it. Read only, please, what is written in Article 163: "Who knowingly does not adhere to the law or other regulations, collective agreements and other general acts on labour rights and on special protection in the work of youth, women and persons with disabilities, or on social security rights, and thereby restricts or restricts the right that belongs to him by fine or prison for up to two years. "No contributions have been paid for pension, disability, health or unemployment insurance. We talked about it last week, it hasn't changed this member. In the existing law he exists. Nothing drastic has been changed in the code now. Let's see the litigation, the work disputes that the employees received against their employer or, let's say, the work dispute has proven consciousness, the imagination on the part of the employer, the individual representing the employer, and whether it's the manager or the director, it doesn't matter that he's clearing things up. Take what's done in the government. A month and a half ago, it seems to me, they brought new systems of jobs. You had Lalovic throwing it away, or you're going to be a member of Social Democracy or you can't be in the ministry. It's changed. It won: when it's hard - Covic. Now it's the reverse process. Isn't that conscious? Isn't that aware of what Lalovic and his men were doing there? Article 164: "Whoever knowingly violates the rules or otherwise unlawfully deny or restricts the right of citizens to free employment... ". The right of the employer in employment is so much his autonomy, and we had a situation – that forged labour law and then the change of the Labour Act, where everything depends on the will of the employer, where it is almost impossible to do this crime. It is possible in the state service and in public enterprises, where there is still some order in the sense that something is respected. Tell me, with a private employer, how can he commit a crime, of the 25 people who applied for a particular job he can choose who he wants. What does he have to pay attention to? He put the lowest school equipment in order for everyone to meet the conditions, a working internship as a condition might not have been put in; all of them, thank God, are in general medical capacity, which is assumed to be minors, not to say the least. How can he do and commit this crime, which, for example, did not receive a man who had been waiting for work for five years, but had already received a man who had finished school yesterday? It used to be with us, you know, at a time of self-management when there was some order, order and stuff. It's almost impossible to commit a crime. It's not a problem with criminal law. It is unlawfully valued according to the second regulation, according to the Labour and Protection Regulations, which is what Lalovic says - safety at work, is something like that. Legally, that's where we should look. So, these regulations need to find an element of illegality so that this crime could exist. So these provisions on these crimes are almost unusable. There are, being protected, Chapter XVI - crimes against labour rights. It sounds nice, and is our freedom of work and our right to work protected by criminal provisions? Technically, they are, they're not. Why? Because the liberalisation of labour regulations and working relationships went below all limits, so basically the judge has nothing to apply here. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20138	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 170 provides for the removal of the criminal offence from the criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for this are in the first row that the crime is an insult to a very low degree of social danger. We believe that it can be envisaged and regulated as a violation and that the fine can be pronounced in a misdemeanour procedure. The crime is scheduled for the proceedings to be initiated in private lawsuits and fines are foreseen. The damage to your satisfaction would have been much faster and easier to experience in a misdemeanor procedure and by the degree of social danger, this work should be predicted as an offence, because it would have been resolved faster, and criminal courts would be free of such cases and they could judge in the matter in which it is necessary to solve cases, not that cases could happen for three or four years that no first-degree verdict could be handed down. I spoke in principle about this, and I said that in the event that, in the litigation proceedings, courts give fair compensation in cases of the existence of this crime, the satisfaction for the injured would be done to a sufficient extent in the litigation process. It would be a kind of punishment for whoever committed the crime. There could be a decriminalization of this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20140	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20141	Under the pressure of some from the West, we are suggested to have a special view of these two most important crimes against honor and respect, and it concerns insults and slanders. If there were really an effective protection, and I think it's a 199 and 200. The law on bond relations, where there's a possibility that a lawsuit would require compensation for immaterial damage to reputation, dignity and at all freedom of personality, then perhaps these two crimes shouldn't exist, because they're a classic example of so-called. a verbal delinquent that has quite a touch point with freedom of opinion, expression of its views, etc. However, the great flood of independent media gave the right to every writer who puts a note in his pocket and puts a pen in his pen, giggling with a pen, to be not only a journalist, but some still think that journalists are socio-political workers, but also to be someone who is a competent critic, so that in public, especially in the media, people who are serial machines for insults and slanders appear. They're in politics, on all sides, they're in NGOs, they're in the so-called. A group of independent experts, experts, people who create public opinion, so there are among the agencies that are media-thinking this everyday life. Obviously, instead of what I can say, it's morale and normal course of events, some code, whether written or unwritten, it doesn't matter, but something based on taste, which would give some results, we have a completely reverse process, so that some in the paper can be "sandless raps", "without tails", some can be with a beard, those who remind us of the ones that make the right resolution, can be anything and everything in us. It could be a repeated lie more than once, so now you prove it's not true. Probably in these conditions, when these democratic expectations didn't live, when that code comes down to my interest, because if I have an interest, then it's acceptable, if there's no interest, then it's not civilized. Approximately, to what extent in what words can be described, one principle is used - what is civilized, and then two tribes are used for example. When a tribe is asked what is civilized by you, they say, "When we cross over the hills, we burn down that village, we kill the men, we kidnap the women, and we get them all home." Then they say, "What isn't civilized?" It's not civilized when they come across the hill to us, so they fall down here, kill men and take all our women away. By that criterion, we have dialectics between insults, slanders, truths, lies and everything else. You know I've been saying for months that someone needs to protect the state from these quasi-lovers. We probably still need these crimes, probably not with sanctions in terms of jail time, but with some more significant fine. I'd like to draw your attention to one phenomenon. Since there are some reasons that are prescribed by law, where there is no criminal responsibility, although there is essentially work and insults and slanders, and that is, if it is a serious criticism, political performance, scientific work, professional work, work, art, etc., now you explain to me, gentlemen of the MPs, in what context is Natasa Kandić, Biserko, Vuco, Borka Pavicevic and not to order these paradigms of the Belgrade "round of two". Does Natasa Kandic perform on behalf of the profession? What's her waist like? The mercenary, Carla del Ponte, with that Private Dimitrievich. Could her criticism be serious? It can't be serious when it doesn't look both sides, but only one side. Is she a politician? He's not a politician, he doesn't participate in the election. Is her criticism academic? No, and my criticism can't be academic either. You know, academic criticism deals with people who do science, so they get a scientific view of the problem. How does she see the problem? That problem only looks at the media, by the system to mentally reverse the system of values, to do as much damage as possible here. There's no other way. Here is now that she has received those people who are looking for their missing in Kosovo and Metohija, her answer was – I will write a Serbian name and a last name, but in a book that will be published in three years' time. We really ask the question where is the end of insults and slanders? If someone thinks that the defense against insults and slanders through the media and the press exists in the Public Information Act, they make a big mistake. Korach did everything he could to make that law look nothing like anything. What is the practice of our courts? It's a disaster. Why? Because they know that there is a dispute whether these acts as verbal delinquencies should continue to be in our criminal law and if they are involved in the evaluation, and you know the specificity of the defamation of the criminal act, where the defendant proves the truthfulness of his claims, where journalists are misused to throw something with a play of words through the press conference, then we have a situation where the one they entangle in the newspapers or in the media is hardly able to wash away the message that was inflicted on him. Can he succeed in a litigation? He can hardly make it. Then the question arises why these members, especially these two, are the key to this head, why these two crimes when there's virtually no protection. That's what they said - it's a denial when you collect those feathers, and with "Belgrades" you've previously let him fly away. That's how a man gets his own brother, even though he's an only child, and the one who said something says, "No, I never said that, that's what the journalist wrote," so after three years of conducting the procedure, a journalist shows up and says, "I did write it, he didn't say it, he didn't say it, he didn't say it," and only because it's an outdated prosecution for a journalist, and in the meantime he doesn't know who the journalist is. There are plenty of these games of the coalition of individual lawyers and individual judges, who are in one organic unity how to do this dirty work. You know, someone's house, a car, furniture is a great value, but there are people whose reputation and dignity represent something that can't be expressed materially. Those who come to life and who want to create, they know exactly what affects a certain man most, and so they move on reputation and dignity, that a man should be disdained, that he should be thrown out of balance, that justice should be brought into the situation, neither guilty nor in debt must justice be brought to justice. I'll just remind you, at the time of "Sabre," I don't want to say names, they're not here right now, but MPs are, because of the alleged listening, the combination, and who knows what -- "SRS is a fascist party", that Orlic and the company... What is the protection of the Serbian Radical Party, since it too has dignity, since its members and supporters have reputation and dignity? What is the protection against Dusan Mihajlovic? He slandered all living in the Serbian Radical Party. How's the protection? There's no protection, there's no such thing as turkey dots. What protection Tomislav Nikolic is, Natasa Kandic slandered him. Did the court provide protection? No, no one can initiate proceedings against her, although 110% of the population of Serbia knows that she gave the worst lies they can. Why do you make people humbly appear to the court to protect something that belongs to them in the nature of things? Who protects your dignity? If we don't protect reputation and dignity in this country, then why are we surprised that someone on the side of us still has some thoughts that we're savages, primitives, etc. That picture's coming from here. Obviously, that code, some moral values exist, but whether they're true moral values, that's another question. Where's the end? That this law suppresses it, it comes down to some bearable and normal measure, that everyone is responsible for a publicly spoken word, not in terms of the combination -- the cabbage is looking, the meat is taking out. It can't be established with us by law like this, which is essentially not so bad, but with this practice that exists in our courts, as only the judge has made progress because it has stared at these provisions. I know five judges who made progress just because they reached a verdict that they didn't provide protection. They know exactly what they've done. They know well that they had to provide protection. Even after five years, they apologize, yes, it's all right, but someone has made progress, gone, judge of the county court. Now he's still sharing justice. He's a moral figure, and whoever was looking for protection didn't get protection. For what? Because of the law? No, because it doesn't belong to anyone. If you want these members to apply, put them in law. If you think it's a court practice, as it is now, don't waste any money. I said, as far as the litigation process is concerned, property and legal protection, make sure it doesn't exist. Who got some litigation? You can count those charges on your fingers. He's got Alex Gilas, someone else. We are in charge of Vujica Spasovica's damages proceedings. He's been rambling all over his paper. The judge can't finish the trial because they're afraid of NGOs. Because when it sits on B92, Studio B and when it starts, it's like the real Fury is on its way. Why didn't you let the academics in? They were going to lynch him at the book promotion. Where was the D.A.? Does it need to drop blood to provide protection? Take care of what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20142	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the MP of the academics Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20143	Just for a little while. When it was mine, if I may say so, the link at the Media Center, when I was told I was the greatest evil in Serbia, that I would only live for two more years, so they wrote me the auto-light word "idiot", I didn't file a private suit, but the city's SUP launched an investigation. The investigation looked like this: the coroner let me wait for him for an hour; as a disciplined citizen, I wait for an hour, and then I lose my patience, of course. The epilogue: then the coroner closes the investigation nicely, although he had a television footage of all these, may I say, political hooligans who attacked me at the time. Here's what it looks like when you don't get protection. Before long, of course, I had to buy a new door, because after that car-light top lock cancels me; I call the company from which I bought the door, the man comes, opens the lock and says - I haven't seen this yet, pours you a super glue. So, the idea is very funny. The luck with the accident was that I wasn't in the apartment. I could've locked the top lock, harden the super glue, and not come out at all, who would come out and break my door down with a crowbar. Since it is mentioned here, with good reasons, Natasa Kandic, allow me another parallel to her case compared to mine. We all remember very well that she was slapping here in the center of the city of one of our unfortunate men from Kosovo. She didn't just slap him, but later she said she was sorry she couldn't slap others. Then the city's SUP came, and that's the same one that ran the investigation around me, so he asked to be legitimate. She refused to legislate. Not only that, when she was asked to retire, she refused to back down and continue to insult. Of course, I'm asking, isn't it just a refusal to legislate with law enforcement but some kind of offense that you're responsible for? Isn't that public slapping something that fits? When you don't back down, when the police ask you to back down, I guess that's what it's about. Here's the epilogue, we all know very well: the court did not find it appropriate for Natasha Kandic to determine at least some symbolic fine. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: how symbolic, in prison.) ( ) At least a symbolic fine, and as far as prison is concerned, that would be the case. Now you see, we have good reasons to ask ourselves: where did two arches come from for the same thing? Why is one archaic for those who criticise Natasa Kandic and the other archaic for Natasa Kandic himself? This is where I suggested one answer. When a deputy U.S. ambassador comes to Sava and says he supports her crusade... By the way, the crusade wasn't some holy war. When the crusaders conquered Constantinople, they pillaged unlimitedly. The Turkish army only had three days to rob. The crusaders robbed from day to day, so they sold for nothing and robbed Orthodox valuables, and prostitutes played in the Orthodox temple of that time. So it's a crusade. Which the deputy U.S. ambassador doesn't know what crusades are, well, that's understood. But don't tell me it's not in some relationship with immunity, under the assumption that Natasa Kandic has. So, to finish (I would not, of course, say if I hadn't mentioned) – it's nice to have good laws. The laws that are proposed here are really good, but the laws have to be applied, whatever they are, good or bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20144	I thank the academic Milosevic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and Article 170a be added after article 170. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 171 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20145	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 171. Proposed criminal code. I suggested that in the attitude of Article 3, the words "prison up to three years" be replaced by the words "prisoned from one to three years". Otherwise, it is a crime against honor and reputation, that is, the criminal act of slander, where the incriminating act is the carrying out of whatever is false, which can damage honor and reputation. In fact, it is about attitude 3, a more difficult, or qualified form of crime. I'm sorry, I wasn't familiar with that, but a truly qualified form of slander is a more difficult act, just because the family of the damaged may suffer. The damaged suffers particularly, it happens often, I can tell you as a practical lawyer, that there is also a divorce, a loss of jobs, so that a threatened sentence should be there for at least one year. Since the minister warns me that the amendment is someone else's, then it's okay, if I'd known that, I wouldn't have responded to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20146	National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 171a be added after article 171a. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 178, and in the same sense, it is perfectly identical to those of Members 179, 180 and 181, so I will not report later on these amendments, but I will now have everything to say about it. Namely, the crime of rape, under the bill, has been defined – who forces another to promise or is equal to the act of using force or the threat of direct assault on life or the body will be punished by imprisonment from two to 10 years in prison. We have put in an amendment that says that the word "equal act" is replaced by "execution the second forced full act". Namely, this legal norm contains a completely undefined and inaccurate element, and such inaccuracy cannot enter into the concept, represents an essential element of a criminal act. Indeed there is no knowledge of what it means or what it represents. I'd like the promoter to explain, and if he really knows what that's about, then he should have been deceded and listed. I think such a provision will cause great doubt and it's not possible to survive this inaccurately. I think our proposal is more logical and includes some other full act to be carried out by coercion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20148	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be accepted, the representative of the Committee's proposing committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20149	I think the fact that the Committee has accepted the amendment speaks a lot about how long it takes for that amendment to enter the criminal code. I have submitted an amendment to Article 178 and suggested that the words "severe infectious disease" should be added in Section 3. In fact, Section 3 now says, "If the act of attitude is 1 and 2", it is about rape and the consequences of rape, "this member has suffered a serious injury to the person under which the act was committed, or if the work has been done by a multiple person or particularly humiliating way either towards a minor or the work has resulted in a pregnancy... "I suggested that after this "the consequences of having a pregnancy" the words "or a severe infectious disease" were added. I think it is necessary for us, apart from pregnancy, to predict as a serious injury, that is, the result of the execution of the crime, and the transmission of a serious infectious disease. We know that this is how syphilis, hepatitis, and what is of all the worst -- AIDS, which I think is necessary in every possible way to be treated through a criminal code, in order to bring it down to a minimum, if possible, to protect it by criminal law. Since the crimes referred to in Articles 178, 179, 180 and 181 also have the intended effect of pregnancy, I have always suggested that a serious infectious disease be predicted and transmitted, so I will not report on these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20150	Members of the 179th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 179 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be adopted, the proposer's representative did not accept this amendment at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 180th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 180 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be adopted, the proposer's representative did not accept this amendment at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 181 of the amendment, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 181 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment, and I see that Mr. George Mamula's MP has also submitted the same amendment to this article. With this amendment, I have proposed that Article 181 in Article 1 delete the words "three months", because I believe that punishment should be tightened. In Section 2, I suggested that the words "other person" be replaced by the words "full-time person". Namely, it's the same amendment and the same opinion is Mr. George Mamula. However, Article 181 of Section 2 suggests: "Teacher, teacher, guardian, adoptor, parent, stepdad, stepdad or other person who, through the abuse of his position or authority, commits a promise or an equal act with a minor who is entrusted to him for the purposes of learning, training, ageing or care... ". I think it is necessary to change, so instead of the word "other person", it should stand "a full-aged person", because in that case incrimination is determined and precisely specified to refer to a full-time person, not another person. Secondly, it is not justified to prescribe a special minimum prison sentence in the basic form, since the work in a particular case can be presented in a very easy form, especially when there is a small difference in age between the perpetrator and minor. What's the big deal here? You have a case to conclude marriage to a minor who turned 17 and 11 months old with an adult face. Is it necessary to make a difference, what happens after 18 years, legally concludes marriage? This is something that the professional public has pointed out, that a minor should not prescribe a special minimum of penalties in this respect. This may in some ways cause certain consequences in the case when there is a small difference. One turned 18 and 10 days old, and the other minor, or minor, turned 17 and 11 months old. It is a small difference, where the legislator should have tolerances and deviations in such cases, especially where marriage is the result. That is why I have tabled this amendment and I propose to the Assembly that this amendment be accepted, especially when it comes to position 2. It should be determined to be a full-time person, not to be understood by everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20152	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 181 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 182 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20153	I have submitted an amendment to Article 182, and the article refers to illicit full-time activities. I have submitted an amendment to paragraphs 1 and 2 and suggested that the penalties provided for should be deleted that it is possible to impose a fine. In fact, Article 182 provides that, under certain conditions, previous members will commit a criminal offence and represent a sex store, that the perpetrator will be punished by fines or prisons of three years. I suggested that the words "money punishment" be deleted and that it remain only "prison until three years" in heading 1, and "prison up to six months" in Section 2. I believe that in criminal acts: illicit sexual acts, then in the next article - subscribing and enabling sexual relations and members - intervening in prostitution, as well as in displaying pornographic material and exploiting children for pornography, is totally not allowed to alternatively provide for fines. The least we can do to improve criminal policy is to provide only prison sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20154	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 184 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 185 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 186 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 186 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140 of Rule 5 and Article 145. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Živodarka Dacin submitted an amendment, with a correction, to the title above Articles 191 and 191. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20155	I am reporting to explain the amendment to Article 191 of my colleague, Živodarka Dacin, because we supported this amendment on the Committee on Gender Equality, but I know that for some technical reasons this has not arrived, and we felt that the adoption of such an amendment is necessary for the reasons that both of us in the Committee on the Survey on the Provement of Truths on Babies, which some parents consider to have been taken away from them, so we felt that we agreed that such an amendment was necessary. So, colleague Dacin suggested that the title - Abduction of a minor, change to the title - Abduction of a newborn child and a minor. It is our experience from the Survey Committee that explains the need for this title. A colleague, Dacin, suggested that new attitudes be introduced in Article 191, namely 1-3, which read: "Whoever by force, threat, deception or in another unauthorized way is to be taken away from the mother by a newborn child by a prison of one to five years. Item 2: "If the organizer or direct perpetrator of the criminal offence referred to in Article 1 is a healthcare professional (medical, nurse or other staff of a medical institution) he will be sentenced by a prison of five to eight years. "Station 3: "If the instigator, organizer or direct perpetrator of the crime referred to in Article 1 is outside the health institution, he will be punished by prison from one to five years. "The colleague predicted that the existing positions 1-5. become attitudes 4-8. We are members of the Survey Committee and we have many observations, in various ways, that the purpose of introducing such a change in this amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20156	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one gap in our legislation when it comes to this area. There are huge consequences and no one is paying attention, not even to the state, when it comes to this area and this problem -- stealing and kidnapping children. This area had to be covered by a new criminal code. Thousands of parents in Serbia also came before the republic's parliament to demand that the state on its own as parents, as damaged, take protection. However, it is obvious that this time too, there has been a misdemeanor of this problem and that it has been given insufficient attention. So, it had to, not only the current one, but also the previous governments; in the previous adoption of the law, when it comes to this area, it was not a matter of concern. A large number of parents have found and claim today, according to what we hear and see in front of the Assembly and on the street, what we see in certain institutions, and trying to turn to the court and the prosecutor, to determine whose child he is, to establish on the basis of skill, where his child is and that he is his child. However, it is obvious that this problem has not been given enough attention and I think that soon our criminal code, if adopted as it is, would have to suffer certain changes and additions when this area is concerned. Some parents, as well as most of them who directly address us as MPs, who also came to the congregation, asked that a particular area be covered by this criminal code, or criminal code, and that protection be given to them. The problem was whether it is possible now to pass a law with retroactive importance. This is one of the basic problems, which means that all governments and those who passed the laws in the previous period, who had knowledge of this problem, missed and did not respond; it is a serious problem and is a great danger to trade with children, and today there is some evidence, but the problem is in the very retroactivity of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20158	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20159	I think this amendment wanted to... It is obviously a group of MPs, not only one MP submitted the amendment, but a number of MPs represent this position, and I think the minister as a representative of the government would have to come out and explain all this to us. You have to say that there is a connection between members of 191 and members of 389 children’s trade for adoption. You have to explain, because after these words come practically, MPs work hard, and you keep your mouth shut, like the whole area isn't covered. Apparently, Article 389 contains the organizers of an association, a machine that performs a special type of crime. It must be said why this cannot be legally done in Article 191 but it is contained in Article 389 if I have correctly interpreted Article 389a, it may also be Article 388. I think the opportunity to talk about it, I think it's impossible to do this work, so it was Article 191 or Article 389, accidentally execute, that the executioner would be just one man. I think there's got to be some group that's smaller, one chain, it's not a classic conspiracy, it's a type of criminal association, organized criminal association, because there's a goal of doing certain crimes, of taking children away from real parents. So, it doesn't matter formally-legal technically in which way, but that these children are given to some and it's probably paid with some material compensation or some wealth. I think this is covered, both of them, and now it's a matter of technique as to how it's expressed. Of course, Article 389 is a far more difficult crime, but here it can create a confusion that a member of 191 does not point to an association. I think they're rightly afraid that someone would rule out a liability under article 389, so there's an article in 191 that's probably a little easier for him, and I think in protest, simply out of fear of covering the whole area, this amendment came. So, out of fear of covering that area, that amendment came. You see here in Article 191, according to the amendment, these are exceptions where incentive is also as a form of complicity in the narrow sense of incrimination. As a rule, the instigator, that I don't talk about these theories of accesoracy, because very rare cases are when an incentivator is only for an act of encouragement, so whether the work is done or not, it fits, because there's a theory of accesorality that maximums expression. Now it's a real rasomonyade in criminal matter and everything and everything is getting in the way, where I get the impression that people in fear have submitted this amendment so as not to remain something like a legal void. You have to answer why you do not accept this amendment, which is covered by article 389 or not, and that some space is given if there is another cavity to avoid being abused by some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20160	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20161	Here's to explain: In fact, in this story that happens in Serbia, the problem is that retroactive action. Otherwise, this law is clearly foresaw – minors, and this is also a newborn child, covered by the notion of a minor until the 18th year. So the newborn is also a minor; therefore, that term is covered. Here is not exactly the wording, and as Mr Krasic said, because in fact, the concepts of the direct perpetrator and the organizer would be left out. That's why we thought it was a better formulation. The problem with this retroactive return, the act of the law is a different story. I don't think it can be applied here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20162	Thank you. Replica, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20163	I honestly have to say that the minister didn't explain anything to us, but this is on the way. Article 191 submitted by Mrs Zivodarka Dacin, who was accepted by the Committee on Gender Equality, refers to the confiscation of minors and newborns. We know they're minors, but we believe that crimes can happen exactly as they do to newborns, and that's why her amendment is the way it is. I do not agree with my colleague Krasic that there has been a confusion, although in Article 389 it has been treated in some way. It's not. Article 389 refers to child trafficking for adoption. This isn't just about adoption. This is about replacing babies at the maternity ward, so I'm going with a healthy one, and someone's been told his child died. So that's what this is about. So, of course, I'm very much a member who predicts child trafficking for adoption, because I consider it the worst crime. I find it necessary to adopt Mrs. Dacin's amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20164	Thank you. Replica, MP Zoran Krasic. Okay, this is a constructive discussion, so it is not disputed to give a word to the MP. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20165	Someone didn't get me. I've just called the minister, unless there's one part that's not covered by the provision of Articles 191 and 389 to make a statement about this amendment that makes sense. You don't need me to attack that I'm against your amendment. (Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, from the place: I apologize. In addition, we have paid great attention to this amendment of yours, as well as to the previous ones concerning infectious diseases, if you remember. So, here is just a problem of legal-technical nature, whether Article 389 and beyond the 388 is seen, it also covered this situation, which is being potentiated by the amendment. If there is an empty space that is not covered and that can be misused, then this amendment should be adopted. I really must say that rare members of the criminal code where this defines the criminal responsibility of the organizer, the instigator. On the principle of subjective, individual criminal responsibilities he is responsible for his work. Basically, in these crimes, so let's make this variant of replacing children, the trendy replacement of children, etc., there's got to be some kind of system, some kind of organization. I'm a major opponent of what Batic put in, so it's said: three is enough that there's a criminal association and organized crime, so one is waiting in the car, which doesn't matter what happened, and these two beat up someone there, and they're already three -- a criminal association. He totally turned the line of words, and though, it wouldn't be the first thing if he turned around. I'm telling you, if there's any chance of this amendment being accepted to cover this potentially empty space, then we're going to support this amendment. However, you see, with Article 389, which is why I, Minister, invited you to explain, "who took away a face that did not turn 14 because of its adoption against the applicable regulations", then Leila is absolutely right. Here in the amendment to Article 191 is not just about adoption, but about everything else, let's say, they define the goals differently, which is why some crime has been put in place. However, in order for someone to take the child away and give someone else to adopt, the whole system needs to work, both at the welfare center, and at the hospital, or at the maternity center, etc. According to the method of execution, it says that organized criminal association is a method of execution, because it's impossible for one person to come up with all this and end it. If there are any opportunities for this amendment to be adopted and this is to be completed, if this is not covered, I think it would be good to take another look at this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20166	Thank you. Anyone else by amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Please, I know this is informal, just to ask you: we have a dozen active amendments, so to speak, so do you agree that we are not taking a break and then we will be done in an hour, an hour and a half, because we are not going to move to the next point, or are we going to take an hour off? Still, let's take a break. Okay. Then we'd better take a break right now, if that's okay with you. We will continue at 14.55 p.m., and then we will begin the amendment to Article 191 submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day, we continue our afternoon work today's session. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to article 191. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 194 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20168	In fact, I need to comment on what my colleague Bosko Ristic asked for with his amendment. By amendment to Article 194, which refers to domestic violence, Bosko Ristic proposed that the penalties provided for in the acts committed in connection with domestic violence should be deleted in the first sentence: "money punishment or" and replaced in the second word "three months" in the words "one year". The member would look like this: "If by applying violence, by threatening to attack on the life or body, brazen or reckless behavior threatens the serenity, physical integrity or mental state of a member of his family, he will be punished", "by fine or prison for up to one year", and his colleague Ristic suggests that he stand: "he will be sentenced by one year". In Article 2, which reads: "If, in the execution of the work described in Article 1, weapons, dangerous tools or other means are used to severely harm or harm health, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years", while counterpart Ristic suggests that the sentence be between one and three years. We are all aware of the fact that research has shown that in recent years there has been an increase in the scope of domestic violence, especially its most difficult forms, and that for a short time in the application of the existing law, it is in order to be able to determine with certainty the degree of effectiveness of already foreseen penalties for the crime of domestic violence. Research on two years of practice, as far as we have a valid member of 118 in the KZ, shows that courts, when defined between the legal maximum and the legal minimum, generally impose minimum penalties. The reduction of the penalty for this act would lead to a significantly milder punishment for the perpetrators of domestic violence, who, according to research, have shown us, in most cases already reciprocated in a criminal sense. That is why we believe that the reduction of the penalty for this act is inappropriate and that, on the contrary, in the case of a crime, domestic violence should be tightened.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20169	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Heliana Dragojevic, Zivodarka Dacin, Slobodan Zivkucin, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic and Djordje Cukvas. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20170	To Article 194. The Committee on Gender Equality has submitted an amendment, but since we do not have the right to submit the amendment, most of the members of the Committee, which the president of the Assembly read, signed. So I see it as an amendment to the Committee on Gender Equality. He predicted a new position would be added in Article 194. Article 194 has a title above it - domestic violence. Please take care of it all the time. The member has four positions, and we suggest that the 5th position be introduced, which reads: "If the death of more members of the same family has occurred as a result of the work of St. 1, 2nd and 3rd, the death of more than one member of the same family, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of at least 10 or 40 years". The bill gave us a new form of qualified murder, deprivement of the life of a previously abused family member. Of course, by introducing a new member - domestic violence. Since there is a special act of domestic violence, as provided for in Article 194, we felt that this article must be introduced, although it is already envisaged, in some way, in Article 114. We felt it was necessary for him to be present in Article 194, in fact, as part of a crime -- domestic violence, as its qualitative form, rather than a serious murder, where he is in the motion ahead of us. We think it would make it easier for the law to be applied and potentiate the protection of family members from violence. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20171	Thank you, Mrs. Trifunović. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Today we will work until the debate is over in detail on this point. I hope we end up relatively quickly, and if not, we'll continue until this debate is over. Anyway, we're not going to go to the seventh item of the agenda. We're moving on to the amendments. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to Article 195. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20172	I know my colleagues are worried, because this is about all of us, and it's very important that we fight to get these amendments into the law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 195, which refers to a failure to support. I have suggested that for those who do not give support, where fines are scheduled from fines to one year in prison, fines are deleted. Also, in paragraph 4, where it is provided that if a conditional conviction is imposed, the court may impose an obligation on the perpetrator to settle his obligations and to give proper maintenance, I have suggested that "under threat of suspension of the conditions" be added. In fact, I find it totally inadmissible, when it comes to the determination of compliance with the obligations made, the granting of maintenance, that this can be conditioned. It should be conditioned by the threat of suspension of the conditions. The one who deals with law and family relations through law enforcement is clear to him what it means to charge for maintenance, i.e. To provide for your child's support from whoever's in charge of it. That's why I find it necessary for this amendment to enter our criminal code.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20173	Thank you, Mrs. Ruzdić-Trifunović. Anyone else want the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 196 by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, from the place: No, it refers to the same. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan to Article 229. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan to Article 230. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan to Article 246. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to Article 269. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted an amendment proposing that three new members be added after article 269a: 269a, 269b and 269c. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 271st amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 276th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20174	I have to defend at least one of these amendments, because Article 276 refers to illegal hunting. I suggested increasing the penalties provided for illegal hunting, just to protect the animals. I think it is necessary for the amendment to Article 276 to be adopted in order for that criminal punishment to have its purpose at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20175	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 277 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bogoljub Pejcic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 277th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 316th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20176	At the Committee session, we conducted a thorough analysis of everything and this amendment was accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20177	The government accepts the amendment of MP Petar Jojic to Article 316. It is therefore necessary to accept it and the Committee on Justice and Administration in order to become an integral part of the law. Thank you. The 337th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 342, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20178	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill of Criminal Code by proposing that Article 342 be changed and said: "Whoever is not authorized and passed the judicial exam with compensation will be fined with fines or prisons for up to two years." In fact, this article 342 speaks of the criminal part of nadrisarism, so the proposed norm from this article is quite inaccurate and quite vague, especially when it says - without proper expertise. What does it mean, without proper professional training? I've tried this amendment to define which one is professionally prepared. That would be one minimum. at least a judicial examination. So the legal norm must be clear, precise, and the language of the legal norm must be adequate to the matter it regulates, so I think this solution is clearer, better and more acceptable, so I suggest you adopt this amendment in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20179	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20180	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the latest amendment by the Serbian Radical Party to the Bill of Criminal Code of Unadopted Amendments, so it would be good to do one recapitulation and one more brief reminder of the MPs, as there are few more MPs here today than this morning, and the public of Serbia on the fact that we have even come to the Code of Criminal Code. We used to say that in the principle debate. I think it is not too great to repeat that the text of the criminal code is very similar to this, not to say in 90 per cent, about the text that this text was in the process of 2000, and at the federal level on the proposal of then federal minister Petar Jojic, and then both Mr Jojic and Mrs Maja Gojkovic and Tomislav Nikolic, who were vice-presidents of the federal government at the time. We have represented the view that it is necessary to codify the criminal code, that all possible criminal acts that may arise are summarised in one law and have done a lot of good in this proposal that we are discussing today. The fact is that with the adopted amendments to the SRS, this is indeed the text of the year 2000. It is unclear why he was proposed in such a text without the amendments adopted, but it is clear and obvious that without the adopted amendments of the Serbian Radical Party this would not be a good proposal and therefore probably a minister and adopted a lot of amendments from the SRS. It is unclear why no amendment to Article 342 has been adopted. I, indeed, am also here because of my colleagues and for the public, must say that this article refers to nadirism. The bill says: "Whoever does so without adequate professional training in compensation by providing legal assistance will be fined by fines or prisons for up to two years. "This, as it is written here, means that anyone who graduates from college, who has the right professional equipment can take the street and offer their services and charges those services, that they are not registered anywhere, that they are not responding, that they do not pay a tax. It's just that this formulation is missing again what I've been talking about today, the accuracy of the legal norm. The precise legal norm, when it comes to Article 342 (I hope, Minister, you agree), reads just as the amendment has been proposed, which is: "Whoever gets fined or jailed for up to two years without the authority and passed the judicial examination. "I don't believe that any of the MPs or you ministers can put up any objection and say something concrete that makes you not accept this amendment. It is obvious that not only lawyers, but also people in other areas that such precision is necessary and that this only leads to a really better text of the law and a decadent, concise legal norm. I repeat again, such legal norms as we Serbian radicals see them and how through the amendments we propose are such that they are clear to everyone, that they do not leave the possibility of excessive interpretation in terms of abuse; the interpretation of the law is certainly necessary and that all the law can be interpreted, the lawyers know that, I will not lecture here, but it is necessary that legal norms are such that this interpretation reduces the possibility of abuse in the interpretation of the legal norm. I'm asking you, if this stays the way you wrote it to me, how some judge is going to punish a person who, with the proper technical assistance, provides legal assistance, and has no legal status in that sense, has no authority whatsoever. I don't know how anyone's gonna call on this bill and sue someone who's gonna cheat on him, show up with a graduate lawyer, and with a passed judicial or professional exam, find a neighbor he can convince that he's capable of completing his building permit in a municipality, and he takes his money, doesn't finish his job. How he will sue him, that is, how the judge will punish him if you do not have in Article 342 and this provision that such a job cannot be done not only without proper professional training, but also without proper authority. We all know what's going on. The inside people know that, we know from Belgrade what happens in many municipalities, so to speak. The democratic municipalities, as legalization ends, as construction permits are obtained, as the paperwork is done by officials employed in municipalities; so it is known in every municipality, on the Sava Venect, in the Old Town, Palilula, there is known which pubs can find a man employed in the municipality, and there goes to him, and for the money, the legalisation of the facility or building permit or some other act of the Authority and, of course, it ends with good money. I think that's one of the reasons why this amendment should be accepted, that things like that get in the way. And, after all, you from so-called. democratic options keep telling us about the EU, we propose an amendment that is in line with the EU's views, you will not. Now be clear whether you really are for that European Union or not when Serbian radicals are looking for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20181	By the same amendment, Mr Krasic. Six minutes, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20182	Mr Stojkovic, I think you should accept this. Why? Because there's a strange wording here about a member who refers to a crime that has rarely been applied to us. That's what you have to say. Although people in the court know quite well who is doing the paperwork, they never very much insisted on proving whether someone took it, whether it was taken, whether it was with compensation or not with compensation, there was no persecution for this crime. You've formulated it this way, not you, but the government suggests, "Who without proper expert training with compensation... "And what's the focus? On the ready or on the charge? For compensation, because it can happen - who happens with the proper expertise and without compensation; it would not be a crime. So, what's in the battery? Cumulatively, without proper professional training and with compensation, but I am telling you that there is the possibility that with the proper professional equipment and without compensation, and it is not an act; without compensation it is not an act, but it is a pity. The point is what we're protecting, what are legal aid jobs. We have the Law on Lawyerry and Legal Assistance, so we said, "Advocacy, it's known, law school, law school, legal exams, lawyer records, authorized to provide legal aid jobs, representation, contracts, legal advice." Legal aid is to be given legal advice. If you do not have adequate professional training and with some compensation – you have agencies, for example, real estate agencies; some agencies use lawyer services to provide themselves, and some do not use, but a type contract. But they don't do this nadrising. Why? Because it is an integral part of registering their activity and immovableity, and that means making up such contracts. No matter how much this amendment simply defines the work of paperwork, because it clearly refers only to the court, according to the text as Bozidar Koprivica wrote; he says, "Whoever does not have the authority and the legal exam with compensation," is thought without enrolment in the relevant register to perform certain actions. This is where the proper expert preparation is defined. It's only been said with a legal exam that can indicate legal aid, but then we have a problem with some services. The National Office doesn't charge any compensation, but it gives legal advice and God help those who go for legal advice there. You're laughing, but I'm telling you, there's a machine engineer giving legal advice. I don't know those that Simic defends in The Hague, they're 100 percent as much as they get from life imprisonment, they're happy. So I'd recommend you accept Mr. Bozidar Koprivica's amendment, because it's more or less accurate than this. Although this one gives cumulatively, one negatively, and the other negatively, without proper professional preparation, means negatively, and positively with compensation, but they are possible different variants, where the damages are far-reaching, because yet the lawyer bears some responsibility, no matter what we tell us about the profession and how they behave. He's still carrying some responsibility. A nadrissar carries no responsibility, and he can do catastrophic damage. That's what this is about. I think this amendment helps define, but it suffers this one-sidedness, because the nadirism only interprets in relation to the court. It doesn't spread this variant, because legal aid is shared in other places, not just in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20183	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Djordje Mamula and Petar Jojic submitted amendments, with a correction of 19 September and a correction of the correction of 22 September 2005, in the same text, to the title above Articles 350 and 350. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the motions at the Committee's session propose that this amendment, with correction and correction, be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miodrag Djidić and Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20184	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yes, I am smiling and I have reason to be. I'm happy and I'm taking the opportunity, and I don't want to hurt any of those who lost, and they all lost. So, I want to thank the citizens of The Tower, they got the most of who they chose yesterday. Thank you for their trust. I'm sure he won't be disappointed, and I'm sure next time we'll get even more support, if that's even possible in a multi-party. In any case, it's not easy for me to defend these amendments, Mr. Minister, when I see who the authors are, but in any case, I think I'm going to say something about the criminal act of giving away official secrets and the necessity of measures of general prevention that must be more severe and more prominent than they have ever been. In view of the criminal act of giving away the official secret, it is said: "If the act of the 1st article is done out of kindness or with regard to particularly confidential information or for the publication or use of data abroad, the perpetrator will be punished by prison from one to eight years. The amendment changes this from one year to eight years in words from two to ten years. Why is this significant? Not because of what's being maximumed at eight years of age for ten years, but because the minimum penalty is two years. I think a crime like this requires such punishment, it is necessary as a measure of general prevention, it is necessary to make it more clear in society that the social danger of action is understood, and I think that sanctions must first and foremost arise from the social danger of action. In this case, and given everything we've faced in the past, something that has no doubt, I don't think it's a problem for Mr. Minister and the Government's representatives to accept such an amendment. It's not about the government, it's not about the executive authorities. I just think it's a good amendment, first of all, because the minimum sentence can be two years instead, and given the degree of social danger I find very justified. I don't need to remind you of the cases we've had in the past. You yourself know what you found in the prosecution, whether the name Radovanovic, about telling the official secret, and I don't know if the man is guilty or not, maybe he's absolutely innocent, really not involved, and I don't know anything about it, because it's pretty funny for everyone in Serbia to go after Milet Dragic for 27,000 dinars and car repairs -- I hear that he was also fixing cars the other day, so you can also go after him – and don't go after the biggest thieves and those involved in the whole affair to the limit. It was important to me for that earlier amendment that I didn't report for, I think Mr. Mamula has filed, and it concerns the stricter punishment of those who call on the police, the fire department or some other competent services, and also the government. I think Minister Stojkovic also accepted it. It is the common amendment of Peter Jojic and George Mamula. He wrote another supplement, which is to especially punish what comes through the computer. I now have to tell the citizens of Serbia what happened a few days ago, what Belgrade police established, although it is a party in power. Serbian citizens should hear what a terrible shame and fraud took place and see who deals with fraud. Namely, on the day that another party printed out in the press "Cicero" posters against Tomislav Nikolic, trying to play the conflict between him and Vojislav Seselj, then another party, G17 plus from its premises, established by the Belgrade MUP and sent the prosecution to the documentation, to hear what they did, were sent from the e-mail by Aleksandar Vukic yahoo.com e-mail to the office "Blica" and said - Tomo, Tomo, how can you do this to our boss etc. To see what kind of con men we face in Serbia. With such swindlers, and they're funny. I guess they're happy to get those whole 6%, and six tons of sugar paid those 6%, six tons of flour and six tons of oil cost them 6%. We don't need that. It's enough for us to show how you steal tons and tons and we end up getting 32 percent, because the people want those who are going to fight them. You laugh, just let someone come out and say this isn't true. To get back on the subject, they are not important, because it should serve them honor and it must be their shame and it will once and for all remain recorded in the analyses of parliamentaryism and in the relations between the parties. All we thought someone dirty could do was get over it. There's no word. A few more words to say about what people and citizens think. People and citizens think it's good to change the criminal code, that it's good that we're going to be the ones who are going to be as a state, regardless of the political party, regardless of political membership, that we're going to be the ones who are going to be the ones who are going to be strict enough, the dura lex, the sed lex, but also the law that's going to have to be applied to everyone after that. So, not to be selective, not to be that for one will, and for the other, that's the essence of the whole thing, and it has nothing to do with this National Assembly. That's why it's important for all of us here to give some kind of incentive to everything so that they can start dealing with crime, with corruption. It's good even last time, even though we were skeptics, that some new crimes were introduced, because now the prosecution and the police wouldn't even be able to react in this case if the crime wasn't brought in in 2002, if I wasn't wrong; is that right, Mr Stojkovic? It's one of those crimes of a new generation. So it's good that we fix it today, it's good to fix it, but what's more important is real life, because corruption and crime are the biggest problem of our modern society. We must fight against it. Our other problem is misery and poverty, and it has nothing to do with this law. It has to do indirectly, because if you show that someone who has made a fortune against the law, who has kidnapped people's property, whoever has robbed Serbia for decades can end up behind bars and part of the people's assets can return to the citizens of Serbia, then you will also have ties to this law, then you will be able to create an economic programme and then Serbia will be able to move forward and morally, as a society in general. That's why this law is extremely important. I'd like you to accept this amendment as well. I don't know why that would bother you. I'm sure you don't mind the other sanctions, the crimes of the same group, I'm simply counting on this to be something that's normal and understandable to consider and accept. Finally, with thanks to the citizens of Kula, I want to thank all the members and activists of the Serbian Radical Party who had a huge burden on them, invested enormous energy, much knowledge, much will and thus managed to win and show what Serbia's future is and that Serbian citizens want to change and that they want to fight corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20185	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Replica, please, the president of the G17 parliamentary group plus Milojub Albianic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20186	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Wolfich, your personal anxiety, your internal party or any other, don't pass it on to the National Assembly or to the MPs, because there's no reason. When you mention the G17 plus you have to do it with exceptional respect, not that you're all trying to attack someone here. What is very important is that it is known that the G17 Plus party has nothing to do with printing posters, you resolve your relationships with Mr Nikolic about it, nor does it have anything to do with sending a famous email. What is it, where the police found it, only if you think you're a cop, which you'll never be, you can claim that unless it's in your soul mate that you might have been connected to the establishment of state security, so you feel like a cop. You're wrong about that, I'll tell you right now. So G17 plus has nothing to do with it, but the fact that you're in pain around that poster is a special question. This is about the statements by your two MPs on the Committee on Finance who admitted two things: one, that the material was printed with Brother Milet Dragic for the presidential campaign, and another recognition at the Finance Committee is that you visited the company Mile Dragic during the election campaign. So Tomislav Nikolic with a delegation of the Serbian Radical Party. That's what your two MPs on the Finance Committee said. That fact that connects you to Milet Dragic makes you nervous. That's why you wanted to show your anxiety in public, but that's your business and don't confuse us with your business. On the other hand, as for the Tower elections, they showed that G17 plus as a party won over two and a half times more votes than in the previous local elections in The Tower. It's a signal for you, and that's why you're trying to attack us in a certain way. You have no reason to be upset. We're going to have over 10%, although it's 6.21% now, even though you're always trying to say it here for the assembly speaker -- but public opinion research, you just don't add -- which we ordered, they say that. There's no better research than there are elections. So, what did the election say? We'll see who forms the municipal government in The Tower, that's what the election said. You can do whatever you want, but this time I call on the parties of democratic orientation to join and form the government in The Tower as well as appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20187	Thank you. According to Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure, please, I'm deciding that you've been misread, because it was a speech about a computer and a computer virus, and here, in response, you have called yourself personally, regarding the statements of the MPs on a committee. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20188	You're very kind, Mr. President. I've heard a lot of things in my life, but I haven't heard anything like this. I ask a man, well, tell us what we are nervous about, what are the results of the Tower. To tell you the truth, I was hoping for good results and I worked there myself for days, but I didn't expect it to be this good, so I thank the citizens of The Tower again. You didn't seem to inform them, maybe people think you got 32% and we got 6%. We got 32%, and you got 6% to let you know. Secondly, to inform you, I just learned that the Kula municipality coalition is already assembled, so the democratic bloc has put together a new coalition. In the democratic coalition, of course, you are gone, you are staying there with the Democratic Party, with other parties, there is SVM, and some other small parties, they would say, foreigners like you. I don't have any kind of problem. You're talking about the 50th time here, and I'm telling you, the Belgrade police have established it. Belgrade police told me they were sent to the prosecution and reported, not Laufer, that the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia had a problem with you, the martyrs for doing this. I've been informed by the Chief of Public Security, yes, because I've asked to see who's involved in the dirty work, and soon it'll come out, because the D.A.'s office will get a warrant, not only from a G17 plus a computer, but exactly who wrote the e-mail. I don't mind that, it just shows what kind of a miserable human being you are and nothing else, I have no other expression, there's no other expression...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20189	Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20190	You, Mr. Markovic, give me a warning if you think I was wrong when I...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20191	Please, I won't give you a warning, I'm just warning you, the term "poors" doesn't apply to any MP, does it? Please, the Rules of Procedure are explicit, just a little respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20192	Mr. President, in politics, we've all learned things, from all sides. We people tell each other sometimes and something that's exaggerated and something that doesn't stand and something that might be more than should be said. No one's ever done what you do. The Democratic Party was only involved in printing posters and leaflets, nothing more. No one has ever dealt with this before but you, no one in Serbia has ever dealt with it except you, people, how do you not understand? No one's ever fallen as low as you. Now you're gonna talk, you're gonna solve your problems, you met with Mom Dragic. I met with Mom Dragic and accepted the offer of printing with Moma Dragic, because it was the most favourable. Yeah, so what do you want? And paid fair and square. Paid for honest printing. What do you want with that? I didn't understand. Did we steal something from someone? What? Do we need to kill someone or don't I know what to do, so you can say that's good? Is that what it takes, to arrest someone who printed, and then paid for the printing. What do you want? What are you talking about, man? You invented it because you got some stupid information that Toma Nikolic went with Milet Dragic, which Dinkic will also go to jail for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20193	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20194	As you've seen, Mr. President, yesterday in The Tower, our time is yet to come, and unlike yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20195	I haven't been to The Tower, Mr. Wolf, be kind, according to the Rules of Procedure, respect the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20196	You should go, take a walk on the streets of the Tower, it's a beautiful town, Redka and Sivac too, Lipar, Kruscic too...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20197	Mr. Wolf, finish up, I know every part of the country, I'm just telling you, I wasn't in The Tower yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20198	I will, Mr. President. You wrote it because it said "Dear girl," and you made it up that it was Dragich, so you made up that man went with Milet Dragic to Cuba. How are you not ashamed and ashamed? What does Tomislav Nikolic have to do with it? What kind of connections? Are you illiterate that you don't know the difference between A and H? You have a problem with that, you can't read the alphabet or the Latin or whatever. And you will go to Europe. Now, Europe is far from us. Listen, from someone else's e-mail address you'll be sending e-mails. You should be ashamed and ashamed. I wish you many successes. I see you took over the ruling block, you were the strongest in The Tower yesterday, there's nothing, congratulations on that. You scared us a lot, I know, those 6% geometric progressions are going to get to 60%, it's a miracle one. I have to remind you, it's still 6% less than 32, and what some of my friends would say is unsolved, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20199	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that Mr. Vukic invents and says - told me by the minister, told me by the chief, and so on, he's about to say - he told me about Laufer. The very clear citizens of Serbia need to know. So, as far as the expression Mr. Vukic is using, and we've heard-- poor people, kill, etc., that dictionary doesn't belong to G17 plus. But what's interesting about our political scene? Interestingly, those MPs or MPs who speak with dignity both to this congregation home or on television shows use a dictionary that wants to improve political life. Just like Mr. Vukic uses words that are the lowest category that can be used at all and should not be used in public speaking. But he's prone to his own relationship with reality. So when someone uses such words, such as a poor man, kill, he actually tells the public his own feelings about reality and thus brings them out. These are the facts and evidences which characterize you, and not the others to which you turn. You take care of that strictly. As far as you're concerned, I think it would be more appropriate for you to stick to the letter of the law and to pay your bills and obligations to the state accordingly, not in public, in an inappropriate way. As far as the G17 Plus party is concerned, it is clear that we do not have any participation in the posters or in that e-mail of yours. Dissolve it between you, Mr. Nikolic, between your factions, relationships and do whatever you want, but don't blame and touch others without any need. The fact that we won two and a half times more votes in The Tower can make you nervous, that's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20201	Thank you. According to the same Rule 101, Mr. Vukic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20202	I want it for the public, I don't want to explain anything to this man at all, I won't even compete. I just can't go with him, he's too smart, he's superior in every way. I confess everything, I just can't go with you. After you said I was lying, the chief of public security Miroslav Milosevic told me and told me the head of Belgrade's security centre that police had established it. How are you not ashamed and ashamed? Since you're not ashamed and ashamed, look at the D.A.'s file. You're gonna say that's not true. I told you, don't ask me to speak your names. The police conducted an investigation, from G17 it was done. Ask the Serbian Prime Minister, he also knows the Serbian government. Shame on you. You're gonna talk about not being true. I'm going to let everyone, tell everyone what you want, make up fights, about this, about what you want, but don't tell me to lie about something I tell you the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, something else about these stories and getting back to this nervousness from The Tower. As far as I'm concerned, 6% is one seven or eight times more than 32. Isn't that right, Mr. Albianic? I mean, it's according to this math that you teach. I don't mind, I have to tell you, in the previous elections we've had 4,080 votes in Tower, and now we've got – now I'm talking to citizens, I really can't handle people like this, they're very smart and very strong – so we've got 4,080 votes, and now we've got 5,680. So 1,600 votes higher. And 1,600 votes more than we got, and you total got just twice as much. I'm about to tell you. I don't know what else to tell you, and I don't know what else to tell you, I don't know what the sine, the cosine, the root, the tangent, or I don't know what's going through you or what's going on, so you can't figure it out. Once again to inform you, thank you, sir, for inviting the democratic bloc to unite, I would like to inform you that the democratic bloc in Kula has already united, they have already agreed. They did everything right so they could rule properly, normally, as the citizens of Kule wanted, for the benefit of the citizens, without corruption and without crime. Since I realized after an email that was sent, it was hard for me to understand that someone could do it, I can't, I don't have those brains, my contemplative abilities aren't like yours, I admit it anyway, and it was hard to understand your move – that you care terribly about some kind of dispute in the Serbian Radical Party, I have to tell you one thing: we're good, thank you, never better, we're in great relationships. As for the relationship between Tomislav Nikolic and me, for 13 years we've known each other and we've never had a fight, we've never had a fight, which is almost amazing. With almost everyone else, it's natural to have a fight like this or a fight like that, and I don't know what, so then normal people keep working and cooperating. Will you behave? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20203	Please, without throwing away, I've already given a sign several times, and please, you finish it, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20204	I'm asking you to court him, otherwise, if I go to court him, you won't be comfortable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20205	Please, Mr. Wolfie, gentlemen of the Parliament, come on in a dignified manner... Be nice and get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20206	You can see that I'm very dignified and the worst possible and most dirty curses this dirtbag from G17 plus I don't know how else to answer, but I'm counting, Mr. President, on your understanding and understanding. Anyway, to inform you one more time, we're so good that we're ready, now I promise you, as I promised some others, not to you, since you're little; you're so small, I thought I'd call you pekings, so I was afraid of warning, better to say political dwarfs, I told those DS guys. Guys, we're gonna beat you. People want to change, people want to have a different relationship with them. Now I'm telling you, you'll have elections in Backo Palanca in December, before the general election comes. I promise you twice as much as the second-placed, and I promise you at least 40%, and alive be, you'll come out for this pay phone, so you'll be able to say whether I was right or wrong. You know, don't worry, these 6% of yours, we won't sleep at night how excited we are about it. It's a terrible increase in the G17 plus party. I expect he'll jump to 6:30, put us at risk tomorrow at 32-33, I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20207	Replica? Here you go. Please bring this debate to an end. Once again, there is no reason, we congratulate all citizens who went to the Tower elections and voted for the parties who convinced them. Otherwise, the information is correct, the president of the Assembly will call the December 18th elections in Backo Palanca on October 20th, so that everyone can prepare in time, whether they work out of all strength, as some parties have now worked and won an adequate number, whether they work less and win a smaller number. That's what the citizens will decide. There's no reason to blame each other here for what someone in a party part was doing on a computer. Be kind, do not accuse the People's Messengers. Mr. Albianic, I beg your respect. There's no reason for the MPs to accuse each other of lying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20208	Certainly, Mr. President. I expected a more serious reminder for MP Vukic, since it is obvious that he is using terms and qualifications that are not worthy of this home and this congregation assembly. I just think that the congregation council is really making progress in each other's relations, and then Vukic shows up and starts spreading such ground-floor terms that are not in line with civilized behavior. I expect both warnings and punishment for the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20209	Excuse me, Mr. Albianic. I also warned the MP when he used the term and he gave up that term. I also warned those who threw it away. Now all together I ask that we bring this debate to an adequate assembly. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20210	Serbian citizens should certainly know that these words used by Mr. Vukic, as if something had been said to him by the prime minister or the chief of public security, make no sense except for the empty rhetoric in the assembly hall. I repeat, neither did the police come to G17 plus, nor did the G17 plus do anything like that. So we haven't made any posters, or that email of yours you're talking about. What caused your anxiety is another matter. What is very important for Serbian citizens to know, political hypocrisy is that you are expressing yourself against Karic for the assembly speaker. Is that the democratic block with Karic? Karic stamps your materials, you're in a coalition with Karic. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: We are not with Karic in the coalition. ) As for the citizens of Serbia, there is a whole other information, we are in a fight, and in the background of the whole story we are in great love, because we are together making materials for elections in Serbia So, Mr. Vukic, about the affair of the robbery of the century of the national couples, the competent state authorities will determine the facts. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] What I want to advise the MPs in the parliament of the state community is to invite you to testify on the Committee of Auditors in the parliament of the state union, both you and Mr Nikolic and all others who have in any way co-operated with Milet Dragic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20211	Since you're already having that discussion, can we take a break? A break of 10 minutes, then a replica of Mr. Wolfie. [[After break – 16.20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope the passions have calmed down a bit and we can move on. Here you are, by Article 101(2), Mr. Wolfie, misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20213	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of the public, I'm obliged to say that I couldn't come to the pay phone earlier, because Mr. Albianic spread out and wouldn't let me go; then I guess he was trying to push me, I don't know what was wrong with him, he probably wanted to provoke the incident. I am grateful to the Serbian Radical Party's MPs that this has not happened. I ask them not to fall for the tricks of the representatives of the regime in the future. I don't want to discuss anything with people like that anymore who won't let political opponents get to the pay phone. I don't know, maybe it's his custom to sort things out that way. I don't have it. And I don't want to run. I have to tell you one thing, since he mentioned some survey board, so he'll call – I've never seen Milet Dragic in my life. You seem to have mixed up. I know his brother. His brother is a very decent man, as I know him. I'm sorry, I think he made a mistake in choosing the political party he belongs to. That's what I have to tell you. Otherwise, we print pretty regularly with him, at least in three election campaigns, we pay regularly. I think it's a good job for both of us and for them. We've got two more printeries, one of them's a birograph in Zemun and another printery in Bolec. So that's three printing works where we print materials. I didn't understand what the problem was. What's your problem? What are your problems? Otherwise, I welcome your enthusiastic desire to accept the formation of a polling committee, because I am sure that then on the agenda there will not only be lieutenants, lieutenants, captains and various irrelevant or minor people, but those responsible for the affair -- ministers, presidents of the state, those who are the most corrupt, those without whom the thieving in this country cannot pass. As for the words that someone's using, today, when I was telling the truth, which you've been having a hard time accepting, I said, "poors, and nothing else." That's what I mean. Whether or not someone is going to warn me or not, I'm willing to carry the consequences, it wouldn't be my first time. I am prepared even to commend the president of the National Assembly, although for my unknown reason, to this political party, from time to time for the way the sessions are conducted, because I think it is much more reasonable than some who were before him. I have to say one thing I can't possibly understand. Where did you find us to join the Karic coalition? Do you count on us in The Tower going to coalition with the Karics? I must inform you that the democratic bloc has formed a coalition in The Tower, but neither you nor Karic are here. Looks like you haven't been notified. The democratic bloc includes the SRS, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the group of citizens Hercen Radonjic-Kek and the Socialist Party of Serbia. That's where they formed the coalition. I don't know what else you want. Don't you see how your coalition partners want, of course, to join a coalition with Serbian radicals? Does that tell you anything? It would talk a lot to me. I'd like to hear you say I'm in your shoes. But I don't want to get further involved in your intrigues and everything you're capable of saying without you letting me go out for a pay phone next time. I just want one more thing to tell the citizens of Serbia. We're going to have more and more problems in the country, we're going to get more and more nervous about those in power, every day, which is lower, and when you add the votes of the ruling parties, you're going to see that it's about 20% somewhere, not more than that, even though everyone, as a glegonist would say, is making votes, because in the local elections they got more than they would otherwise get in the central elections. So, they only have 20% support in the electoral body. If you think it's moral to rule with such support and that someone can have legitimacy, I don't think so. But that's your concern and concern for the citizens of Serbia. I want to tell the citizens of Serbia one more thing. In all kinds of ways, they're gonna try to provoke us, they're gonna try to do things, they're gonna make things up through their own media. But what you need to know is that it won't stop us from winning the regime, it won't stop us from bringing change to Serbia and it won't stop us from fighting corruption and crime. It is crucial, and I would say, the most important message for all citizens of Serbia. (President: Thank you, please! Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience, I'll be done in a few seconds. Those who think that by stopping someone from going out for a pay phone... I guess they count on me to be scared, I'm a timid man, it's easy to scare me, Mr. from G17 Plus, it's not some great wisdom, but it's something smart to do well for the citizens of Serbia. It's the essence of the whole thing. But there's one thing you need to know: you can't scare Serbian citizens anymore because you're a great authority, because when you hear the names of some cops you say -- now we're going to replace them. That's enough, the government will change. What you need to know will come to a time when all thieves will end up behind bars. It's the time Serbia is waiting for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20214	I'm sure of it. Thank you. Here, I hope we end this debate in the same calm tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20215	Of course. Mr. President, you know I always do that in a quiet tone. To clarify the following situation: When one MP leaves the assembly booth and passes by this passage, it is likely the duty of him who next comes to let him who left the congregation pay phone pass. It's the essence of the whole story, not that you're misexplaining the public here. So Mr. Vukic wouldn't let me go to my place, so he could go out for a pay phone unhindered. That's the essence of the whole story. Secondly, as to mentioning the words again, such as -- intrigues and things like that, G17 plus does not deal with it. It's a value system that was established in the 1990s in the wrong way. We're trying to do it today, in a decent way, to make it right. I'll tell you that the G17 plus and the ruling majority, if that's what you want, stands for both human dignity and democracy, pluralism, tolerance. So, for human rights, minority rights, everything that characterizes a normal civilization today. The value system is not easy to return to Serbia today, as it was damaged in 1990. And some other values, which can't be called values, thanks to you, have surfaced. On the other hand, this government of the Republic of Serbia, G17 plus, leads the country through reforms to the EU. Why are we doing this? To make the citizens better. Unfortunately, we're aware of the fact that people here are trying to make a worse assessment of ourselves than people on the outside do. Such is the World Bank's assessment that we are leading, among the 12 leading countries by reforms around the world, assessed by one renowned institution. Such a signal was also sent from the United States by abolishing trade sanctions. These are all significant signals that speak about how many things are improving in this country and that there is a climate that is suitable for foreign investors, that we can improve both the conditions of life and what we all want, which is that Serbian citizens live better. Also, the government of the Republic of Serbia and G17 plus is determined to fight crime and corruption. Those things are starting to come true. Look at the arrests for the prevention of the robbery of the century, look at the arrests of the Supreme Court judges and the deputy prosecutor. Who in Serbia can be bothered by crime and corruption in today? That's what we're gonna keep going through. Those values, those pillars, such as the freedom of movement of people, goods, capital and services, are the values for which G17 plus stands. These are values that characterize the modern world, and those values that were established in the '90s will be left behind. Let the people fight together, says G17 plus, give decisively and courageously in reforming and fighting crime and corruption. Whoever opposes it will have damage, he will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20216	Please don't, gentlemen. Neither do you, Mr. Perry. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: What does this mean? What does it mean? Be kind, it wasn't the basis. It's okay, different political messages have been exchanged, most normal, because here are the representatives of democratic parties and they send messages to their voters and their citizens and they bring out their political chalk. We're all working under bad conditions. Sometimes it causes tensions on one side or on the other and when people are thinking things through, and I ask you to end this debate. Just one minute. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. I really don't have a business base, so have an understanding and let's not insult my predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20217	You have a business basis, and I didn't get something I had no right to, you didn't give me charity, Mr. President. We have experienced things in this National Assembly, we who have been in it for a long time, and each of us is wrong, each one of us sometimes says or does something, which is why he then says - so maybe I didn't have to do it that way, but all people are of blood and flesh and you always have emotions, sometimes excess, which I think people even respect. I think that people less like those who have no emotion and who don't care and who never go out for a pay phone, who don't care about citizens, are only interested in the congregation register. As far as difficult conditions are concerned, I'm not under difficult conditions. We work in much easier conditions than most workers, we live much better than all pensioners, we have a salary 10 times the average pension in Serbia. Serbian citizens live much harder and much worse than we do, and they ask us to solve problems. I'm not mad at a gentleman who didn't want me to go out for a pay phone, so he finds a reason and says, "I have to wait in a place to get past that place, so I can get out." We've missed each other like this a million times, and I don't mind. It happens in the heat of political struggle. The man's nervous, and it doesn't matter. Whatever happens, it's not a big deal, and I'm not the kind of guy who's going to go, run and press conferences call, fence the whole passage, violence in the assembly, and I don't know what. I don't care. People happen and much harder and much more serious things and nothing to anyone. It happens every day to every man at work, but what's our job here, and I'm going to end it, is that we're doing something for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. There's someone here talking about it -- it's an affair, a century-long robbery, and I don't know what. I could talk about the robberies of the century for over a decade and start from the National Savings Bank and beyond, but I won't. I'll just say that I'm happy that in these robberies of the century -- and proud, and that's exactly the biggest reason, for that result yesterday in The Tower -- there's no Serbian radical anywhere, and once again I thank the citizens of the Tower for their understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20218	Of course, I didn't want to compare working conditions, but it's a great honor to everyone who receives a great pay, and they think it's undeserved. Please, it's enough to do their job, so she'll be deserved. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and a member of 386 be added after article 386. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20219	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, counterparts Djidic and Bosko Ristic, I assume, intended to codify the procedure before the International Criminal Court by amending this legal norm and sanctions. This intention can be done well, but it is in some way a sword with two blades. If you look at what their intention was and if you look at the text of the law, you will agree that under the circumstances in which our state of Serbia and Montenegro is located, it is, on the one hand, necessary. And when you have in mind that, not Mr. Djidic, but Bosko Ristic was a promoter of everything that did not go into favour of the state and the people at the time of the ruling of DS and DOS, especially when it comes to the burden that has been put on us against all elementary norms and logic by BiH and the Ustasha Croatian state; if you have in mind the fact that the ignorants and people who are not worthy of representing the state and the people have represented themselves before the International Criminal Court, then there remains a response by the promoters why this is not included in the bill, but in a way that the state and the people are truly protecting themselves. I have actually used this amendment by Bosko Ristic and my colleagues to update and from the assembly speaker something that has been written about these days, as Mr. Minister also knows MPs, which is, in the sea of the humiliation of the Serbian people and of all citizens of Serbia, another additional shame and shame. Namely, at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, at the same time that the separatists of the Mil Djukanovic regime and Filip Vujanovic started paying some kind of war damage, as they called it, the Croats, formed a commission at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, represented by, imagine who, who absolutely does not have an elementary normal opinion on the Serbian people, a certain professor of the Law Faculty, Radoslav Stojanovic. I must remind you that it was the same one who had a 20-minute minute moment on TV B92 last week in the time of the testimony of Professor Vojislav Seselj in the case of Slobodan Milosevic and who was the worst possible insults and remarks at the expense of Dr Seselj and the way he defended the interest of the state and the people on that television, i.e. he was a special guest. What is obvious and why the SRS is doing all this and from the assembly booth is trying to promote in one normal and democratic atmosphere the most important values for citizens and for the state in general has been systematically destroyed by the DOS government, and now remains the survival of Vuk Draskovic as well as the choice of Radoslav Stojanovic, the one before him was not better, that our country before this court. We can only assume what attitudes there will be, because he thinks in advance of his own people that he is a genocidal people and that we are people who are not defending our interests and interests of children who live here, when it comes to unfeeling NATO aggression, and that we are not talking about Western Serbian countries and the Republic of Serbia, about Republika Srpska. It's amazing that the representatives of the government over such qualifications... And it's a very important case, primarily a heroic way of defending and setting up by Professor Seselj and the facts that no one lives can deny that they are true. You witnessed it and watched as much as you could and followed those trials. Here comes the man you, I think of you from the ruling coalition, at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, have determined to be the president of the commission, yet to reward him fat, except to threaten the state and the people and thus allegedly protect our interests, to be the future ambassador to the Netherlands. What's this about? Who will protect the interests of innocent citizens? Who will protect the interests of small Milice Rakic and children who died throughout Serbia and who died under NATO bombing? Of course, it cannot be a traitor like Radoslav Stojanovic, and for those who support him, let them serve the honor. Just be sure, as soon as the SRS assumes power in Serbia, just as it happened yesterday in The Tower, we will be so responsible and ready to face what we have survived and that in one dignified way, but the right way, we represent the interests of the state and the people, because we are not absolutely for nothing, for everything that we are burdened with, for what we are asked for a symbolic figure in hundreds of billions of euros. We will know that we are protecting every Hague prisoner, Professor Seselj and all the people who are there trying to protect the interests of the state and the people on behalf of us and the future generations who will live there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20220	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20221	To commend the government for not accepting this amendment. In a chapter dealing with, which was formerly Head XVI, those from the Democratic Party want to put in a new criminal act -- obstruction of proceedings before the International Criminal Court. Apparently, it's the UN tribunal. He is called the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. However, it may also be the one established under the Roman Statute. The fact that it was established under the Roman Statute and the obligations that exist is ratified and these obligations exist. According to the attitudes mentioned here, we have two attitudes, with five points in the first position. False testimony, I think we've already covered the provisions of the rule of law against justice, giving false testimony, Article 335. So this is already covered. Prevention and obstruction of evidence, too. So, absolutely all the points are covered by the relevant provisions of criminal law. I looked at it a little bit, but I think it's all covered. What's the point of this amendment? Someone here is trying to tell us that there is supposed to be some criminal justice in The Hague before a court established by the Security Council Resolution as a measure of coercion to establish peace in the former Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on the United Nations Charter of Chapter VII, as a temporary, ad hoc body in Article 49. The Charter of the United Nations. Between us, it's not a court. The Hague tribunal's co-operation law has been forced here, completely unconstitutional. We have no obligation to deliver our citizens to any court abroad, because if we deliver our citizens then we prove that we are not a state, because we do not have the attributes of power to enforce the law on our territory. Another thing, very important and very important. Third, in this assembly, a Law on the Assistance of The Hague indictees or persons indicted before this court awaiting incarceration at the beginning of the trial. One of those, which has been awaiting trial for three years, is Dr Vojislav Seselj. Let me remind you, the Krajisnik waited longer than four years for the trial to begin. By all laws of logic and legal practice, a liberating verdict had to be made for all of them, because the prosecutor was unable to initiate the procedure, to proceed with the proceedings, because they first arrested the man, and then they collected evidence. So, the presummation of innocence has moved into what Djindjic has been saying in time – let them go there, and let them prove their innocence. Everything has been turned since 1993, when the UN tribunal was violently formed. Resolution was passed and he started in 1995, and since this Carla del Ponte has changed everything, seeing executions, co-execution, and introduced something new -- participation in a joint criminal enterprise, which is not legal-theoretic. Someone here is trying to sanction something that's already sanctioned and I don't know, if it's already sanctioned and it's related to domestic justice, why the special provisions should now be applied to international justice. What's the difference? By the way, let me tell you that there are some other things: one of the signatories of this amendment - Bosko Ristic is some creator of the Constitutional Charter, which formed the state union, mutilated the SRJ and you can see that for two years it cannot be stuck in any way. A bit of a nervous minister from here wants to improve the process, to speed up the state's decommissioning process. We have Vuk Draskovic, he goes there and who knows what he's talking about, who he represents, probably himself and his wife. No one shares that opinion. So we have one state community in which the Constitutional Charter provides for a primacy of international law over domestic law or anything that is internationally accepted and, by international law, becomes an integral part of our legal order. If this is literally applied, you will see, probably 70% of the conflict clauses to international standards that correspond to Switzerland, correspond to the Netherlands, have such a constitutional system, it's acceptable for them, it's contrary to our constitutional system. By that logic, it is now pushed and this must be co-operated. Who do you think he's working with? We cannot ensure co-operation between citizens and domestic authorities, let alone abroad. You'd like to skip it right now. You see no one fairs what the government says. Sandra's saying something, Boris talks second, Wolf talks third, Covic still complains, grieves, because it's very difficult for him. Guys, what are you talking about? I call on the MPs to vote against this amendment, all of us to vote against this amendment, because this matter has already been worked out by other provisions. To remind you, there is still a ban on applying the provisions of that law that was passed here a year and a half ago to assist persons in the detention of The Hague tribunal. You see how much interference there is because there is no law to apply. So, because this law of defense is not applied, the prosecution provides evidence, and then you know what that evidence is, which can serve the defense, and this state stands by; whoever's in charge, whether he's in charge, there's no quality preparation. And of course, when a direct testimony appears and brings out some data, then there is astonishment in both the world and the local public, because it changes images of what happened on the territory of the former SFRY. That picture and how different it is from the one presented by someone from the West, and those who have submitted this amendment I interpret to do more for them than for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20222	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20223	Since it has been said that the Government has explained why we did not accept this amendment, I will be very brief, I see that there is a little confusion in you. The amendment was not accepted for a very simple reason. We are signatories, I speak for a permanent criminal court in Rome, we have accepted the statutes of the Roman court of the international court and has been ratified. He is an integral part of our order and one of the courts that will function tomorrow. This member actually wants something that I don't think is allowed to execute in relation to one court. We already have a criminal offence preventing evidence and preventing and obstructing evidence, and it applies to all courts, meaning that court. There is no longer any need for a special provision to single out a court and determine a criminal offence in relation to it. On the other hand, in attitude two, it's a very interesting situation. He says, "Whoever seeks or receives a bribe in the course of his official duty, who shall be punished for this part of Title 1, in the course of his duties, within five years. We have a decree on bribes clearly specified, what is bribery, when it can, which are harder and easier forms and from one to 10 years. Here we would even go to something that is completely out of the system, not sufficiently defined, because it is not said - related to an official duty he is obliged to perform or not to perform and so on, but simply in one sentence - from one to five years. I don't think this can be accepted, nor would it fit into our system. For these reasons, I will no longer hold back, it is totally unacceptable this possibility, watching our criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20224	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan to Article 431. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20225	After a discussion that was really professional and legal, about this law, and I see that there was a little confusion, I will now repeat what I said. I really thank all the parliamentary groups for their participation in the drafting of this text. I see the assessment that this country really needs one such law. And, right away, not gratitude as help to me, but to making one valid text that needs to be served for a longer period. Normally, it's going to change with the amendments when some new things come up, but once we're as country to get some code. For these reasons, I express my gratitude and also to say that if we get good laws going the second part that we heard today, and that is: gentlemen by the courts, you have a legislative framework, so you will be obliged to work, both for corruption and for ineffectiveness and impunity. I hope to find the support and assistance of this congregation in that part too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-26-0.u20226	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic, and thanks to the president for giving time for all MPs to give enough amendments; of course, I'm joking. I'm concluding a review of the Code of Criminal Code proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Tomorrow we continue our work at 10.00 hours by searching the details of the seventh item of the agenda – Bill on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of minors. Thank you all for your responsibility. Tomorrow we'll be working until the end of this set of judicial laws, so, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth points of the agenda, that's a total of 50 amendments. Thank you very much.
