ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. Once again my huge apology for being two minutes late, thank you for understanding. We continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that using the electronic voting system in the hall is present, at this point, 91 MPs, it seems that not everyone has inserted their cards. In accordance with Article 82(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, we're starting a session. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic, Milovan Markovic and Esad Djudjevic. We move to a joint principled search of the 1-7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE COURT OF COURT, THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT, THE ORGANISATION AND THE AUTHORITY OF THE State AUTHORITIES IN THE SUGANISATION OF ORGANISED CRIME, THE COURT OF WAR CRIMES AND THE FIELD OF THE FIELD OF THE SPECIFIC CRIMES The Word has a National MP, Nemanja Sarović, and let the National MP of Bosko Ristic be prepared for discussion. Mr. Sarovic, you've been given a word on the agenda, and then report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16411	I want to talk to the Rules of Procedure first, then on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16412	Be kind, there are business announcements being reported. You wanted to make an announcement, but I didn't see you, did I? Here you go, first according to the Rules of Procedure, and then I'll give you my word on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16413	Mr. Markovic, at least two members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured and this new one, which we have not yet received. On Friday, a member of the 104th New Rules of Procedure was injured because you continued to play with this National Assembly. First, at 3:30 a.m., so no one can hear you, you got through the fact that it's going to be done by the end of the principle debate, and you didn't inform the MPs, in a decent way, that the time to work will be extended, and then, when we started working, after half an hour, you interrupted the session with an explanation that there was no more direct transmission. Your duty was to ensure that sessions of the National Assembly were transferred to one of the channels of state television, because there are three programs. Instead, tennis was transferred. I think it's really beneath the dignity of the National Assembly that the sessions, which you say are extremely important, (to discuss extremely important laws, that these laws should be passed as soon as possible) are interrupted for such trivial reasons. I don't think there's anything left, only that you're still taking breaks here during the commercials. Your explanation that these TVs are sustained from these transmissions certainly does not stand. For the most part, state television is supported by budgets, and a very small share of advertising revenues. Sure, I think it's one of the most important things that exists from the assignments for state television, right, and the transfer of the National Assembly. Secondly, Mr Markovic, according to the new Rules of Procedure, Article 85(1) says the sessions are held "in the period from 10.00 to 18.00 hours", and Article 86 says, "If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, in the session room, at least one third of the MPs are not present, the session is delayed by one hour." It was obvious that at the beginning of the working day, at 10.00 hours, there were not a third of the MPs present in the hall and that you were obliged to postpone the session by an hour. Your apology that we are two minutes late – it does not stand, because, first of all, two but five are not late, and the Rules of Procedure clearly say that if at 10.00 hours and zero minutes there is not enough number of people, the session is postponed. If you break that in five minutes, then you can lose any sense in 15 and 25.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16414	Thank you, of course I had to go to the Rules of Procedure before 4:00 p.m. to inform the MPs about the extension of the work, it's Friday. Also, I had to do it by the Rules of Procedure, when it was established that there was no television transmission, because the work of this assembly was public and it was an obligation to interrupt the session. So, I had to respect both cases. Also, as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I had to correctly interpret Articles 85 and 86. Rules of Procedure, when it comes to starting hours. Please, after the debate, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. So we continue the principle debate on points 1 to 7 of the judicial laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16415	Mr. Markovic, you haven't answered this second part of the questions about the delay in the beginning of today's session, and your obligations under Article 86, so please answer me first.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16416	So I repeat once again that I have acted on the Rules of Procedure (Articles 85 and 86) And I'm really committed, whoever's sitting here, and I'm going to give an explanation. If the MP is not satisfied for whatever reason, whether he does not understand the Rules of Procedure or does not understand the speaker, or the speaker has misexplained it, he must bear the consequences by making the Assembly known in the day of voting on whether the infringements of the Rules of Procedure were. Do you want the Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16418	I accept, and now please, I give you my word in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16419	I'm not happy, but from Mr. Markovic, I didn't expect anything else. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's before us again, I don't know which way, a set of judicial laws. I think it's at least the fourth or fifth time that we have a set of laws like this before us. Every time, expectations are high. Every time Mr. Secretary's promises are great. Every time there was a talk that, in this and this kind of change, in a quality and comprehensive way, some things would change. First of all, there will be improvement in the material status of judicial employees, both the legal holders and others, as well as the number of people who do not have judicial functions, and the employees are in the judiciary, is high. Since we don't have much time to go. This joint debate covers as much as seven laws. First of all, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. In Article 10, or Article 2. The draft law on amendments and additions is said: "After the Court of Justice of Serbia-Montenegro has been suspended, the judge has the right to continue to serve in the same court or in another court of the same rank." It's interesting why this and this new item is put into the law. The minister may say, probably when the judge's office on some other basis ceases, that the judges will have the right to return to regular courts in the Republic of Serbia. If it is known when the Court of Serbia-Montenegro is formed, what is the mandate of judges in that court, then I think this is, before, the announcement of the disappearance of both the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and that of Serbia-Montenegro, before anything else. Then, article 31, on which the Court of Justice's basic salary was tied, or could not be less than the Prime Minister's salary in the government, further to the Court of Appeal, was determined by the High Court of Justice's salary of the Supreme Court of Serbia, directly the lower court, was also set against the salaries of judges of the immediate court. In the light of the law, it was said that the Law on Judges entered into force on 1 January 2002 and that this law laid down this way of determining the salary of judges which, unfortunately, has never been applied. and that previously – on 1 July 2001, the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services came into force, and, as explained in the argument, there were often questions in practice whether the billing of salaries for judges would be subject to a law governing this issue for all state authorities or whether the Law on Judges would apply. The minister here told us, in a debate Friday, that he was one of the best law school students, that he was the best judge. I think the one who's a good student and in the first year of law school could never make a mistake like this, because one of the basic principles is right that lex posterior derogat priori, or that later passed the law drug previously passed the law. Of course, the Law on Judges, in relation to the Law on determinement of wages in state bodies, is a law that appears as a lex specialis and in no way could any confusion arise, provided that this is strictly legally observed. I think it was mostly because this is the way the salaries were meant to be much higher for the judges. When these changes occur, as the minister told us, that the material position will be improved, they should now have salaries of about 40,000, but what's clear is, that the judges in this way, even I would say in one part, not until the end, are compensated for that part of their pay that was consumed by inflation. Even during the time of Justice Minister Vladan Batic, the steeply announced judges' salaries of a thousand German marks were announced. Of course, the judges never got that, because then the basic salary was about 26,000 dinars. This way, with one big delay, the judges' salaries, which are even now basic, around 30 or below 30,000 dinars, will increase by 30 per cent. I'm saying, it's just gonna make up for what was eating inflation. The other thing, which is a big problem, is that there will be no repair of the material position, first of all those representing future judges, means – judges' trainees, professional associates, and these are people who are literally one step closer to becoming a judge; some are working in that status for ten years, waiting for a choice, perhaps they are not chosen only because they are not members of some of the ruling parties. I think that if we want our judiciary to be quality, we need to ensure that those who represent the best students, the best professional associates, and certainly tomorrow and the best future judges, are still better rewarded for their work and remain in the judiciary. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, there are again some divisions between prosecutors. What's not good, I think, is that Article 4 detailing the issue of salary increases to public prosecutors and deputies, who act on cases in criminal cases with an element of organised crime, because this definition is too wide-ranging, quite inaccurate. What does a crime with an element of organized crime mean? This will certainly be interpreted differently from court to court. It is impossible to establish a uniform practice. I think this will be one basis for abuse, that some, deputies, or prosecutors, in this way will be, in an inappropriate and undeserved way, an increased salary, that it will be used and that within the prosecutors themselves, they will be forced and rewarded by some people for these or those reasons. If you estimate that in one case someone has an element of organised crime and therefore you increase their salary by 100 percent, it depends, therefore, exclusively on the will of the prosecutor, and someone else, who can work in several such cases, because of these or those reasons, do not allow such an option, it will certainly bring many problems. I really don't have much time to look back on every law. But there are some things that need to be said about the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat high-tech crime, it's a new law. However, the title was subsequently amended by amendments. He's slow, in my opinion, and in the SRS' opinion, this whole law. We do not think that the Serbian judiciary should continue to be divided, that there should be no special prosecution, another special prosecutor's office, and again special judicial departments, as they will already be called, because we should, however, uniformly regulate the matter by which certain crimes are committed. The concept that is needed and accepted, at least publicly in this National Assembly, is that all crimes will be covered by the Criminal Code. We, in this way, exactly, put the criminal code in a special procedure; we're going to have special prosecutors, we're going to have special judges for these cases. They will, of course, have special salaries and that can only lead to new divisions. So not only is it bad that it's divided in this way, but the law is extremely badly formulated. For example, Article 6(2) says, "When it comes to the knowledge that a criminal case is covered by the cases provided for in Article 3 of this law," that is, those parts of high-tech crime, or cyber crime, as the minister said, "A special prosecutor is in writing to the Republic Public Prosecutor, asking him to trust or transfer jurisdiction. "If we know that this special prosecutor and the special prosecutor's office will have headquarters in Belgrade and that they will be responsible for the prosecution under the official duty of these crimes committed on the territory of any other prosecutor's office, or on the territory of all Serbia, then the question is how will the special prosecutor know if, for example, the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Bosiljgrad comes to an object in which there are elements of this crime. What is this way of communicating the special prosecutor's office in Belgrade with all the prosecutors in Serbia? How will they come to know that there are certain items (and the number of cases in Serbia is measured by tens of thousands) with the elements of these crimes? Such a certain jurisdiction, that a special prosecutor himself filed a request to move something into his jurisdiction, is certainly not good. I think it had to be different, that is, that every prosecutor in every prosecutor's office in Serbia should have the obligation to immediately, after he notices that there are elements in his case of this crime, send the case to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and seek, if the situation is, (and which of course may be decided by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office) to transfer jurisdiction to the special prosecution. It is said: "The ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary is responsible for providing adequate premises and all other technical conditions necessary for the effective work of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Council." It is the best answer to the minister that they are, however, both special and separate. The question arises, if they belong to the district court, if they are within the county court, why not regularly provide all these needs with them. I'm saying if they're part of the county court and the district attorney's office, this is the best proof that that's not the case. Finally, Article 14. – Transitional and final provisions, he says, "Crime cases for criminal offences under Article 3 of this law in which the indictment took effect until the date of entry into force of this law will end before the courts that were really and locally competent before the entry into force of this law. "This, I would say, is the crown proof that there is still the possibility that in Serbia's courts these crimes are being tried. How the judges will end the proceedings they have already begun, and they will not be able to judge any future ones. So we'd certainly have more experience. I think that this solution had to be different, or if we don't already, as you claim, enough trained personnel in Serbia's courts to prosecute these crimes, then the cases that have already started, or the proceedings that have already begun, should have been transferred immediately to the jurisdiction of this special prosecutor's office. In the end, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, I think it is not good what the minister said that, who is to be tried and paid, and that is an explanation of why court fees have been increased again. The state as a state must guarantee all its citizens certain things. One of these is both justice, or the right to trial, the right to protect their rights both in litigation and in criminal and all other proceedings before the court. It can't be tied to whether or not someone will have money for it. There must be some solidarity in every society, as you can't tell who needs to be treated, that one should pay. For treatment, everyone has to pay contributions, but only those who find themselves in that situation have to be treated. Of course, he spends the most and pulls it, and then he can't tell the minister that those who are being tried, because it's certainly not someone's whim, or the need to pay. It's an interesting range of these taxis. You'll notice, I've pulled out, what a percentage of the real tax is depending on what is the height of the slow and you'll see, there are really some fragrant facts and huge differences. This is what I say for municipal courts of general jurisdiction: if the value of 10,000 dinars is a tax of 1,300 dinars, or 13%; on 100,000 dinars, the tax is 6,500 dinars, or 6.5%; on half a million dinars the value of the slow tax is 19,500 dinars, or 3.9%; if the value of a million dinars is 32,500 dinars, or 3.25%; if 10 million dinars is the value of slow tax is 65,000 dinars, or 0.65%. You will see that here is exactly the most burdened by those who are the poorest layer in society and the greatest burden paid by those whose value is low. At 10,000 dinars, it's 13%, and at 10 million dinars, where the extremely high value of the dispute is, and it's probably the ones who should pay something, their tax is only really 0.65% of the total value of the dispute. So twenty times the tax if your value is 10,000 dinars, I think these constraints should still be a little bit different. You should have said in principle, if you say, that whoever is tried and paid, here, each will be a tax of 2 or 3 or 5%, no matter how much it will already be a percentage, but I think it's unacceptable that those who protect someone's right, 10 or 15 thousand dinars, means most minimally, that they pay even 13%, and that those who pay and judge about 10 million salaries 0.65%. Don't tell Mr. Minister that they will eventually be returned if they succeed in the dispute, because it's not just about whether or not they will succeed in the dispute, but whether or not they will have the opportunity to press charges. How long will it take them to reach that success in the dispute and eventually to collect their claim? For now, so much. More in the discussion in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16420	National MP Bosko Ristic, not in the O.R. The word has a National MP, Bozidar Koprivica, and let Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16421	Dear Members of the People, I will speak of a set of judicial laws. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges should aim to create conditions for achieving the material independence of judges and proper functioning, the legal conduct of judges. In fact, it should be assumed, unfortunately, in Serbia, a country of wonder, this honorable judicial duty is often misused, so that some judges in almost all Serbia's courts do not exercise judicial duty as they should and should be required by law. We rarely meet unwitting judges who are sloppyly and extremely irresponsiblely carrying out their duties. So, we, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have judges who haven't been able to solve the case for more than 15 years. Such a judge, unfortunately, is protected and still judges and receives wages, and is often more popular in its midst than honorable, valuable and professional judges. In my years of practice, I have faced numerous examples of unhappiness and even the will of judges. The main debate was to be concluded, and the judge passed, i.e. make a verdict after two years, even though he was obliged to make a verdict within 15 days. So, such judges, unfortunately, are full of Serbia, and they continue to judge and, as I have already said, receive wages and are more popular than honest and honest judges. The Supreme Council of Justice should not have so much authority that it can increase 20% of the basic salary of the judge and the president of the court. Also, it is an incomprehensible proposal that the basic salaries of judges dealing with organised crime and war crimes may be increased by 100%, especially if such an increase in the proposal of the High Council of Justice, with the agreement of the minister. It immediately brings independence from judges and executive authorities, so the salaries will certainly be increased, against which we are not, in principle, considering an increase in the basis for the 2005 salary calculation in Serbia. What the Dossow government and the Dossmanian judges did is best known to the arrested, harassed and humiliated citizens of Serbia, 12,000 of them, a small number of whom were charged with the infamous "Sablja" of the Democratic Party, where basic human rights were violated and violated, where there was force and terror, where violence and immorality ruled, which Serbia would be ashamed of, as Chile is ashamed of Pinochea! Gentlemen People's MPs, Mr. Minister, what are the courts and prosecutors doing after an unremembered lie carried by that crazy Natasa Kandic, for one of the most honorable and prominent citizens of Serbia and the Serb family of Tomislav Nikolic? These courts of yours and the prosecutions must react immediately, if you cared about justice, the rule of law and justice. Natasa Kandic must be behind bars! That's where she belongs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office gives the High Council for Justice the right to unfoundedly increase the salary of a public prosecutor at the level of the judge's salary. As prosecutors in Serbia work best, to return, damaged and humiliated citizens, and this was best felt by Serbian citizens in the infamous "Sablja" Democratic Party, when basic human rights were violated, when it was thrown under the feet of the Serbian Constitution and all the laws! What did the public prosecutors do in that infamous "Sabreya"?- I'm sorry. In many cases, there were silent observers, and even perpetrators of the infamous Dossian regime who invented and invented lies, and even dared to try and impose a death sentence on their political opponents to strike the final blow! A set of individual prosecutions with MOP workers is getting a lot of situations, so it is rare that suspects are harassed, beaten and humiliated by the police, without being punished just because some prosecutors are not doing their job under the law and that all citizens, unfortunately, are not the same. If an MIP worker literally beats a citizen, he will almost never answer, thanks to such relations based on the prosecution and the MUP. With the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, I am of the opinion that new powers are given, to propose a supplement on the salary of judges. As it comes to the membership of the High Council of Justice, it is best to know the most professional and best judges, prosecutors who, although best and most professional, can never be members of that high body. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes provides for an unfounded increase in court fees. The fees are large and unbearable for Serbian citizens anyway. It's not true that it's an increase with an inflation rate, it's much more. This proposed enormously high tax will negatively affect the protection of vulnerable subjective rights of citizens from regular courts and procedures, Mr. Minister. The promoter also submitted a bill on the organisation of the jurisdiction of state authorities to combat high-tech crime, where computers, computer data and computer networks appear as a protection facility. Mr. Minister, this is unnecessary and excessive, and I would say an ugly word – a barren law that provides for the unnecessary formation of new, special prosecutors, special judges and special services of the MUP, which will cost taxpayers, I calculated 99 million 220 thousand dinars, and that is completely unnecessary. You yourself know that, existing prosecutors, existing courts and services of the MUP can work very professionally and successfully without these additional costs. In a situation where Serbian citizens are barely putting an end to the end, living on the edge of the misery, unnecessarily introducing new prosecutors, new courts, new services in the MUP, which will cost the state about 100 million dinars. However, the conclusion is that you want to skin this people naked and squeeze them to the bone. You do not listen to the SRS and voices of reason, and therefore the people, as Supreme Judge, will punish you in elections that will soon reward the responsible, honorable and fair policy of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16422	The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, and let Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say in a few words that, on behalf of the SRS and on my personal behalf, I address the law regarding improving the material position of judges, but also some new modusa in charge of taxes and high-tech crime. Analyzing all of this, I have a very characteristic sentence that speaks to the reasons for the adoption of this law, I am talking about the Law on Judges, and it says that this law "is intended to create conditions for achieving the material independence of judges, as one of the basic assumptions for the legal and proper functioning of the judiciary". I must remind you, the independence of the judge is one constitutional-law category that has more elements and more segments in it. That is why, in general terms, the independence of judges and courts is often meant for this material independence. I can't agree with that, because otherwise, counterweight would be a finding that our judges are materially dependent on someone. I don't want to get back together with that, because I think the state has enough mechanisms to ensure its own judiciary and its judges a perfectly normal functioning. When provided, all other conditions lead to one conglomerate called the absolute independence of the judiciary. All this also applies to the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, because it is also about the salaries of prosecutors and their role in self-functioning. I would only mention the fact that the SRS is absolutely in favour of improving both the material position and the courts and the prosecution, as well as all those who are employed along with the judges. Namely, according to the SRS programme, there should be one balance of personal income, both the holders of judicial functions and all the employees. How this state, more specifically the government will provide, must come up with, design and implement into life and action. However, I would like to deal with some more elements of the independence of the judges. In fact, I would like to point out that there is no independence and independence of judges and prosecutors in a state where there is a violent decommissioning of state institutions and the state itself. It's very difficult to be a minister in a state like this, it's very difficult to be a government in a state like this, it's very difficult to be a judge, it's very difficult to be a prosecutor, it's very difficult to be a legal holder, but it's also a judicial worker. Namely, there are submersibles on the outside, but there are submersibles on the inside. We're not going to qualify who are harder and more dangerous, but I have to stress the fact that we're sinking deeper and deeper. How do we get out of all this? We need to raise one general judge status to a satisfactory level, and that, first of all, is one satisfaction from the judge's work. Judges must have a responsibility, but in this country they don't have to justify themselves to everyone and to all. The justice system has accurately prescribed the responsibility of judges and prosecutors, and we cannot all interfere with the assessment of their value and independence in this business and work. I would like to point out that there are over 200 political organisations in our country and there are hundreds of NGOs. That this overlap has led to every price and every person qualified for the work of both the courts and the prosecution and depending on that approach, someone says the salaries are high, someone says the salaries are low. That's what I think we shouldn't take care of in this way. We need to set up all of this and regulate by law how judges, prosecutors and other judicial employees will be given adequate profits. What I'd like to say is that these laws have been abolished on the judge's salary. The question is why do we lift the allowance on the judge's salary? We, as members of the SRS, have made it clear when the previous law was passed, and now our facts and our legitimate demands that this should not be introduced, nor that this should be put into practice. Namely, an allowance on the judge's salary was lifted, precisely because this institute did not even live in practice. I don't know how the High Council and to whom the High Council has assigned this raise of salary, but I do know that in the interior among judges, under the so-called "gunjalo" who has received such raises. If that's true and if there's something behind it, I can't tell you. As far as all other matters are concerned, I believe that the salaries of judges who judge organised crime and war crimes really deserve to be more valued than those of ordinary litigation and ordinary litigation. However, there are certain doubts about who and how this was assigned. I welcome that a balance is being carried out here and I believe that this 100% might be an objective framework in which a range of salaries between judges and prosecutors who act in such specific matters should be moved. As for the law that wants to prevent high-tech crime, I must say one fact that it is well focused on this problem. This high-tech crime has largely taken place with us, but it has largely not been contained. However, I cannot agree with the conclusion of some of our MPs who said we don't have professional personnel here to do this, that our colleges aren't prepared to do this. On the contrary, the situation is completely different. We also have a positive, processive and material right that perfectly regulates this, but it also regulates a part of the law called crime, where our professors, our department of Law School, are here, but also other cathedrals in our country clearly define what computer crime is, what is computer crime, and how all of this should be fought. So we have the strength to deal with this crime. The only question is how we're going to do it. The SRS is not for this criminality to be singled out as a special part of the trial in other court proceedings, precisely because one specialization in the real jurisdiction of the courts would not be created. I have to translate it as a judge from the inside: there is a Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based Belgrade-based justice-based justice-based justice-based justice-based justice-based justice. By the way, the judges who are very capable and inland, the judges of the district courts, are already objecting to you. Not only are they smart in Belgrade, it is not only in Belgrade that can initiate these proceedings. Another very important fact I would point out, which is that one anti-high-tech crime service was established, however, and the service is in Belgrade. The question is how can this be implemented in the interior and what coordination will be with the prosecutions, etc. There's a technical problem here, a multi-percent problem. In view of Article 9, paragraph 2, it is said: "The service is acting on the request of the Special Prosecutor, in accordance with the law". Does that mean that only the D.A. can find out and that he has knowledge of potentially high-tech crime? So what's this service gonna do? I guess it's a public conversation first, so behind it is one of the operational activities of the anti-crime service, and only in the end do prosecutors start. That's it, that's it. I would ask you to take another look at these very important laws in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16424	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, and let Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16425	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have given their opinion and contribution to the adoption of appropriate numerous but good laws. The predecessors of the SRS who pointed to certain gaps and shortcomings were apparently right, if the wages are increased, if that is true, only to judges, and not to other employees, and the question is what percentage. The court and the prosecution are not just standing on elected persons. the judges and the prosecutors. A large number of employees, including graduates with a judicial exam, are doing important jobs and are helping judges and prosecutors. If they were left out, which is between 12.000,00 and 14.000,00 who work in the judiciary, they would be neglected and damaged because their salaries between 100.00 and 12.000,00, at this point, are extremely small. As for the salary of judges and prosecutors, of course it is necessary to increase the relative power of the state, but given the other professions they perform and how significant duties in our country. What I wanted to point out, (as did the People's MP Koprivica, pointed out and distracted), is that the court fees, if adopted, were inappropriately increased. They were extremely high, and I don't think it's appropriate at this point to prescribe and determine such a fee, especially if it's meant for our citizens, and especially for this medium and poor layer, it wants to exercise some of its rights that it can't accomplish otherwise, but only before the competent court. If he refers to a specific decision or is entitled to a court of law, he will find it very difficult and will himself be in a position not to initiate proceedings because of the charges on the suit, the charges on the verdict and the other charges, or the costs of the proceedings, are too high. Therefore, our citizens, especially the poor, will not be able to claim their right to the court, because they will be in a position to give up, and often to be damaged by frauds or others, for which they would be forced to turn to the court for a fair decision when it comes to the number of judges, our judiciary should be reformed and not to wait. If you have a hundred thousand citizens of 20 judges in Europe, and we have 40 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, that number of judges and legal holders should in any case be brought into line with these very European standards. I mentioned several times that England has 1,629 to 1,630 judges, and we have nearly 3,000. With judges for violations not to speak. That's a big number. Secondly, when it comes to judicial reform, we should not only pay attention to how many judges we have and how many judges have cases, but to how many judges solve cases a year, how many judges have been confirmed a decision, how many rejuvenations the judge has made, how many judgments the judge has been suspended and how many times. It happens, that, five or six times, we have in court practice, judges end the verdicts, but such a judge is protected, as Koprivica said, and can while he's on trial duty to do so and no one controls him. Now it's the choice of judges and president of courts. There's information that tells us about the falsified results. You have a judge, the president of the court who is now applying for reelection. He has three times the number of cases solved, and there are seven or eight judges in that court. But, let's say, Ivanjic and Cačak: how many cases have been resolved by the President of the Court in Cačka, and how many have the President of the Court in Ivanjica. It seems that he has almost three times the number of solved cases in Ivanjica. So, what's this about? It is that, if you choose an elder of the authority, you must choose the image of honesty and values: that he is agile, capable and professional to run a judicial authority and that what Koprivica said was written two years after the debate was concluded, and that the citizen pays a tightened legal interest for two years. So, the salary is the court's fault and that's why these citizens have the right to sue the state of Serbia. In two years, the legal interest has been tightened, because the verdict has not arrived in good time, and especially since it is worth millions or two dinars, it is catastrophic. Of course, wages should be increased to judicial authorities. I said there should be an increase in salaries and other employees, but when it comes to judicial fees, it should, in my opinion, be given to the function of improving the material position of 100% to the judicial authorities. Not the finance minister that he puts in his leather purse and takes it, and he needs it, and he directs it where he doesn't need it. If it is a court tax, then it should be given 100% to increase and improve the position of judicial authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't get a chance to say last time that MP Alexander Vukic was talking about what happened to Srebrenica and the lies that were being launched in our society. I must say that the judicial authorities cannot remain silent, cannot go beyond the fact that those who commit the crimes our legislation predicts are being made silent and do not take measures against those who have committed numerous crimes against the Serbian people. They invented that Tomislav Nikolic committed some injustices or crimes! That's one fiction!- I'm sorry. Where are the judicial authorities to take the criminal charge of those who launch this thing and who lie! The truth is also in the grave alive, free in chains, and in the dungeon of light, and clean in the head.- I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, don't mind me, I didn't have a chance last time, ethnically cleaning up Serbian territories in the municipalities of Bratunac, Milici, Srebrenica, Skelani, Muslims began the attack on the small village of Gnion, in the Srebrenica municipality, on May 6th at Djurđevdan. They chose Muslims to commit the most serious crimes against the Serb people on Orthodox holidays. The unit and division of Naser Oric killed (and that is to say, the military is silent, the state is silent), killing some 3,000 people of Serb nationality in the municipality of Bratunac, Srebrenica and Skelane. The fate of the Serbian people, (and its population), particularly its parts outside Serbia, was long threatened. For a long time, Drina was Serbia's border with the Turkish Empire, then the Austrian Empire, and during World War II, Hitler and Pavelic, an independent state of Croatia. Each occupier tried, not to choose much funds, to remove Serbs from Bosnia from the border with Serbia. What's going on? Lies should be fabricated, if not otherwise, and at least by hiding the truth. This wicked work today is considered legitimate and we call it propaganda war. The truth is clear enough in the right way to bring out, at the right time, the appropriate means. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few notes, in this area in the villages of Gnion, Blječeva, Opaci, Šadići, Ratkovići, Gostilj, Viogor, Loznica, Čičevci, Brežani, Metaljka, Zagoni, Obodi, Krnjići, Zalazije, Magasici, Ježestica, Rupo Brdo, Fakovići, Boživiæi, Podražanja, Braćan, Rogosija, Bijelovac, Bijeljić, Kravica, Brana Bačići, Čosici, Vržići, Vranješići, Vranješići, Hrranšite, Jaketići, Jasen, Gladovici, Gaj, Butkovići, Banevići, Banevići, Banjačičičiči, Vrs, Vrsinja Gorj, Vrsinj, Vrsina Goršinj, Vrsina Goršite, Vršici, Vranšici, Vranšici, Vranšci, Vranšici, Vranšici, Žranšci, Hr., Žranšici, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jačić, Jačićić, Jačić, Jačić, Jačić, Jažićićićić, Glatićić, Glatić, Gaj, Gajtićić, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, G., G., Gajd, Gajd, Gajd, Gajd, Gajd, Gajd, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Gaj, Kaj, Kaj, Kaj, Kaj, Kaj, Which is why the judicial authorities remain silent about what happened in Tuzla on May 15th 1995. The historians and some journalists are silent, and they know and possess material evidence that 450 soldiers were killed on that day, moving through Tuzla unarmed, following a signed agreement with the mayor of Tuzla, and delaying weapons, and heavy and light weapons! That's what the military is talking about, and shut up about the state. Only between 1941 and 1945, 6,000 Serbs were killed in those areas! That's what you keep quiet about, and no one's talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I was forced, since last time I didn't have a chance because of the order and work of the Assembly, there is photo-documentation of graves about the Serb death in the area I was talking about. Here's a photograph, Goran Drage Zekic, born in 1956, judge, was murdered, slaughtered. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Bratunac, a Serbian cemetery, one of the greatest. Ladies and gentlemen, here in this photograph, the funeral is in Ratkovici, in March 1993, when Mother Doberka Svetkovici from the Serbian village of Ratkovici, the municipality of Srebrenica, held the skull, the head of his son. Ladies and gentlemen, in the village of Milicima, the cemetery and in Baja Basta is also talking about mass massacre and the pogrom of the Serb population. Ladies and gentlemen, you have victims in Bratunc who have far gone beyond all possible predictions that something might have happened at that time. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, you have victims who lie slaughtered by Muslim villains, and these are Serbs in the Skelani. Don't mind me, ladies and gentlemen, last time I didn't get a chance to talk about this, but I'm forced to remind the judiciary that it must take the most urgent measures when it comes to lying, untrue and wasting, i.e. to convey false news and defile the reputation of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16426	I thank you, the word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, and let Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16427	Considering that over the past year or a year and a half, these laws have been amended several times. The law on the repression of organised crime had two changes in 2004, and as for the Law on Judges, I think it was changed three times in 2004. All these changes that are made on this set of judicial laws are changes that require time, and by the system to patch up the tire, the wheel could move on. It all began one day when someone concluded that the High Council of Justice should be formed, new regulations should be adopted which, in my opinion, are deeply contrary to the existing Constitution. I wouldn't return the subject to some distant past, and I wouldn't repeat anything my predecessors said, but in further exposure, I'll pay attention to two, I think, very important points. The first point is what do we expect from the court and what is the court? If we say court fees should be raised and those who are being tried should be paid, then we practically said, those who are being tried, let them make a court and go to trial. That way the state can't react. In order not to go into some philosophical moral debate about what a court fee is, it is certainly something that serves to record a serious request addressed to the court, not what Bozidar Djelic taught us – that this is a significant source of income from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The wrong opinion of Bozidar Djelic makes such a logic, so it must be paid – whoever is tried must pay. I suggest to the government, in order to establish the right dimension and true importance of court practices, that he return the court fees paid only in tax marks. The tax mark as a means of recording, as if one proposal had officially come to court and entered court proceedings. Someone thinks it's a little funny. That way I'm just pointing out that the amount of the court fee should be really modest. I have to pass on one finding to you, for 50 years this country has just been known to be available to all citizens without any particular procedure. It seems to me that the last changes made in the areas of procedural laws and justice are not going in that direction, or they are not guaranteeing it, but are going towards some specialization that is often and unnecessary. We'll have bad things to do because the citizens will remain effective without judicial protection. I wouldn't go into this salary debate for a reason – when you don't have an independent budget of the judiciary, everything that's said about wages is arbitrary, whether they should be put into the executive power status, whether they should be determined by this basis or otherwise, it's a more technical issue rather than principled. However, one judicial budget must exist if we want our judiciary to be independent and independent. Independence and independence have one financial aspect, and he says the state is obliged to provide funds. The state is obliged to allow court-holders to share those funds according to their criteria and not provide funds from abroad for the functioning of the judiciary, because if funds are provided from abroad, then our judiciary is not independent and cannot be independent. I don't want to comment on whether our judiciary is ideal or not, whether it's as bad as some people hear. I must say, every bad word addressed to the judiciary is definitely diminishing the authority of the judicial authority. That doesn't mean that where there's a right need to point out something that's crazy in our judiciary. I'll take one example that's known to the public -- two minors committed a crime, killed a taxi driver, and the maximum sentence is 10 years in prison. One of them was sentenced to 10 years in prison, and the other one got, I think, eight and a half years in prison, and that's by the Supreme Court's verdict on appeal, so the prosecutor can't do anything, even though the man was chasing it right. It happens a lot. A few days ago, a cabbie got hit with a knife in the neck. Two months ago towards Chačka and Vidikovec as well. I'm not saying that the Supreme Court failure caused this, because this is pure pathology, these acts that happened. The state has to run a criminal policy through judges who need to see in time and space the weight of a crime and see where society goes, to suppress these criminal behaviors. What I would especially like to potential – I think the government, as a proposer of these regulations, must have in mind the following things, and they concern the Special Court of War Crimes. You see, on May 25, 1993, a Security Council Resolution 827, adopted by the Secretary-General's Report, was established by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and an integral part of that resolution is the Statute of the tribunal. It is predicted that the tribunal is the measure of coercion of Chapter 7 of the UN Charter but of the subsidiary character and of the court character. It's something that's forbidden, which in international law cannot exist. The international court can arise as a result of the agreement, i.e. it can be an effect and the result of international contract law. The resolution says it forms as a measure of coercion to end armed conflicts on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. He has a limited fact and has a so-called. a parallel priority competence. So, besides the jurisdiction of domestic courts and the UN tribunal has a slight priority. This is what I'm saying because the state needs to raise its voice and say – with the signing of the Dayton Agreement, the UN tribunal must no longer exist as a measure of coercion, because it was never a judicial authority. I'm saying this because there's practically a priority to the jurisdiction of our national courts for these crimes. Our country is silent, it's not answering, someone's flirting on the financials and the deliveries of volunteers or any kind, and then we get information that the whole world is rebelling against this Carla del Ponte. Three months ago, the U.S. is putting in a protest. Why? Because she didn't finish the first degree. She made a final strategy; (after that strategy) by the end of 2004 all charges should be filed, and by 2008 all first-degree procedures should be completed, and by 2010, the work of the UN tribunal should be completed in the priority section concerning top leaders and top officials, but not the middle- and lower-level officials. There is a warrant for them to transfer all these cases to national courts. Unfortunately, our country is silent, not raising its voice. In addition to these facts, with various combinations of federal and republican levels (from the federal level that you mention you will not be wrong, and from the republican level take this Kadadinović) the centres for the study of war crimes and genocides that are committed against Serbs are being shut down, so that the people who do this and the documentation that exists are all bunkered so that the public will not know the truth, and that is the priority of this country. If this state can't make a list and scientifically process all its victims, the victims of this people and this territory, with which the right can talk about what was going on there far away. So we have a power that doesn't pay that much attention. From here, I call on the minister, if he can, to build one centre or agency, in this flood, you can make at least one more agency, which will deal only with war crimes and genocide against the Serb people. Documentation exists. It's just a scientific process. I'm also saying this because the UN tribunal is a strange court, it's the only court on the globe, where judges write the rules of procedure themselves; 31 times it's changed that rule. The last change meant installing the 11 bis rule. Under that rule, 11 bis, cases are passed to the national court, and the state should be prepared to take over these cases and resolve them. Of course we've been against all the special departments and all those special courts, about which you've spent so much unnecessarily for the past three years. I have to tell you, organized crime is also the complicity of four people, if they agreed in advance to commit some crime or some crime. Well, it's part of organized crime. Every agreement, every agreement of more people, the agreement of three people to commit a crime is organized crime. This is judged by our courts, both in the municipality and in the county, depending on the crime. What's the special task force for fighting organized crime? That came down to three objects. These were our courts in a regular procedure that could have been completed. It'll be similar with other special departments or special councils. I think the solution to these specificities of some proceedings is in the special councils within the General Court. But we have a completely different process. A few months ago, we had opportunities, and here the congregation majority passed family law, where the judge's specialization is also foreseen. As any law in the material field is passed here, it will not surprise me if each of these laws contains a provision on the specialization of courts, judges, so that they can judge in these proceedings. I don't think that's necessary. As far as the last law, which you suggested in the last set, is about fighting high-tech organised crime, this computer, etc. - there is the most needed profession, which should be expressed, in discovery, to be honest. However, I doubt that we are going to do something about this, for one simple reason why I know that in 2001 the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering was passed, that by the same system, other regulations that give too much authority to the state in the fight against something specific, which requires a higher level of technology of knowledge and equipment, so that it can monitor this crime. However, the results are lagging behind. Why are the results missing? They're missing for one simple reason why regulations don't apply to us. Another problem is the problem of people who need to apply the regulation. I'm absolutely certain those who fight piracy are deeply involved in piracy. You've got someone coming out on TV, Dinkic says I've put out so much of this, so many disks, so much of this, so much of that. I'm telling you, he's the head of an organized mob dealing with these things and he's got a criminal record! He's got a criminal record, and you keep your mouth shut, I know you're in the coalition, but eventually it'll come out. The SRS didn't call anyone for nothing. That's for sure. The state must make sure that it did not finish the job by proposing some text, which is more or less acceptable, provides the majority that will vote. Then those around the Performance Study rush to praise, here, we passed this law, that law, and this is how we solved this, and that way we solved it, but what is worth – it's empty, it's out of practice, there's no effects, there's no results. Because there is no result that, of course, causes something called despair, not to say something worse, anger in people, because they say – aman, people, what you're saying, what you're sitting around and making some regulations, and to me every day it gets worse and worse. It has to be taken care of. I think we need a whole new view of the judiciary. I don't want to go into detail, because we have a lot of amendments, so there's going to be a chance that we can talk about these details too. But I draw your attention to this war crimes court, I draw your attention to rule 11 bis, especially under "c." I draw attention that the state must raise its voice and say – The Hague tribunal has ceased to exist with the Dayton Agreement, as a subsidiary measure. The primate has lost, all of it should come back here, because they are essentially on the basis of Security Council resolutions, and Security Council resolutions are not in the ranks of the law, but they are acts, whether they are individual or general so-called. the executive-political bodies of the international organisation. Take a look at the final report, which was filed by the NATO bombing expert group, so compare with these procedures that are being conducted in The Hague, and you'll understand. A country with a lot of rights can raise a voice and represent this attitude that I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16428	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that some parliamentary groups are almost gone or presented with one or two members. These are the blessings of the new Rules of Procedure. No one has to do anything, and some can do what they want. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional category is the right to judicial protection for every citizen of this country. By increasing taxis, by increasing taxes for ordinary citizens, for poor citizens of Serbia or for those who are not rich enough, means at least partially denying the right to judicial protection and every time it seems, to a greater extent than acceptable, to a greater extent than Serbian citizens can understand or can pay, it represents a direct opposition to one of the basic constitutional categories, one of the fundamental constitutional rights. That's why the SRS is against the proposed solution. I think most Serbian citizens agree with the views of Serbian radicals. I'd just like to add something that Zoran Krasic, an MP for the SRS, spoke of, the most recent example. When we talk about justice, it's the highest number of honest judges, honest people, responsible people, who do their job in a safe and diligent manner, just like, say, Serbian radicals, who are currently in the hall more than all the others combined. So we have a problem with the work of people who have nothing to do with justice or justice, who are the only thing they do and are the only thing they do, that's a few examples, as a measure – both general and special preventions, in how and how much money they can get for their judgments. Now I'm going to show you this case of special prevention, they're acting on their judgments. You have the last crime that happened in Surcin. The young boy Milos Karaklajic, a minor, was killed, neither guilty nor in debt! The boy had no idea what was going on in Surcin. He came, too, a minor, with an automatic rifle killed him! Now you're going to say - what am I saying, what does it matter? Now you'll hear why it matters. Because a year ago, that underage person was sentenced to five years on probation, and there was no more serious punishment. What did he do? He stabbed her second with a knife in a machine school. Because, you know, we're going to resocialize, we're going to fix it one way or another. Is that a solution? The solution is this example, which Mr Krasic spoke of. In the first-degree procedure, Judge Stanka Simonovic delivers a fair verdict after a brutal murder with the imagination of 10 years in prison for murderers. You know why? Because they changed the law office and found a mobster lawyer who was a co-worker with one of the Supreme Court judges. They agree, our discretionary right is ours, and we can do whatever we want, and we won't explain what we're going to do to reduce the sentence to the killers for 8.5 years. What? To go out after five years and kill someone again in a cruel way. They killed him a little with one bullet. What, what's the problem? What kind of psychopaths are they in the Supreme Court of Serbia that are going to be tried every time. I tell them, so let them do whatever they want, see what they can and what they want to do. Should they kill a cab driver every day? Is it supposed to happen every day to anyone in Serbia? Does it take a minor to get hurt every day because he stabbed someone for the first time, he didn't get a juvenile prison sentence, but conditionally, he'll get better?- I'm sorry. He fixed himself by taking the Kalashnikov and killing the other kid! What do Mother and Father do? He's not a mother and a father, what he's going to do now, that kid has no life anymore. He's gone, simply because this system couldn't deal with freaks. Why? Because they're getting the money. Not because they think one way or another, but because they take the money. Because only political judgments will be maximum, when some from the embassy and some foreign states come to them and tell them, I am satisfied with this verdict or when the head of the bandit lobby, Natasa Kandic, comes to say she is satisfied with the verdict. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Is there going to be maximum penalties then? When they're looking for it. Who knows if it's true or not. I don't trust them anymore. After these lies with Tomislav Nikolic, I no longer trust them with it. I'm even sure they're all lying. And now I ask you, who will bring back the mother and father of Karaklaji to the children of Milosha?- I'm sorry. Who's gonna give those kids back to those parents, cabbies who kill like clay pigeons?- I'm sorry. The Supreme Court, quietly beneath the grain, so that no one knows in any way, reduces judgments. What, ten years? Take it down to 8.5, good behavior, and go two-thirds and go home. Nothing to anyone. And someone lost either a child or a father or a mother because they're fierce killers. The ferocious killers. What are we talking about here? We're talking about corruption getting into all the social life pores and justice and all that. Nobody's safe alive. You, to tell them that you're looking for surveillance in a certain procedure, whatever you're doing, they won't listen to you, they won't listen to anyone, because they've received money. That's what all Serbian citizens know. It's lucky, so it's 10% judge. Those 90% are honorable and honest. Here, I gave you what the whole system is guilty of, all of us, so I'm asking you why little Milos Karaklajic isn't here today. Because of such psychopaths in the judiciary who would do anything for 5,000 euros, and they don't care what someone kills them, they won't kill them. Account, he can free him again or give him a reduced sentence. Without any argument, if you were to read those judgments that reduce penalties, instead of having a strict criminal policy, that we here in the Assembly were to strengthen the measures of general prevention, the measures of special prevention. No, we encourage crimes. It's just that they don't say in the Serbian Supreme Court, go, take and arm yourself with the AKs and the hackers and kill cab drivers in the streets, kill them, and whatever happens to you, you say I went a little crazy that day, I drank a little bit, and I was significantly reduced in comprehensible. So please don't worry, one-five-six-year-old I'm going to get, which means after three, four years I'm going to get out and I don't have any problems. Is that a solution? Will each Serbia solve its problems in this way? Or we'll have a judiciary that'll keep quiet, or the prosecution that's gonna keep quiet, and it's got to act like an independent organ and find the boss of some gang that says, uh, you're a killer. What's your evidence? Well, said Zarko Korac, said Baby Popovic. Do you have proof? And who was killed, who was killed by someone, I ask, who was killed by Tomislav Nikolic, who and when? There's no answer. He says, well, when he's gone, you answer. You guys are normal, who and when. They don't have an answer to that. The D.A.'s still keeping quiet. The republican prosecutor remains silent, because the chief of the top gang, Natasa Kandic, stands behind it, and then their media refrains, these followers of Beri and Visinski of B92 and say this morning, ask Petrovic and say, did this look like a hickey in the Serbian Parliament? Imagine how rude it takes to say something like that. So, those men accuse him of killing someone somewhere, and then they say, imagine they're answering us, imagine they dared to answer that, so they're running the chase against us. Is there an end to this insolence and insolence? Not all psychiatric cases, not true. It's something else, it's something much more serious, and it's a much bigger problem for Serbia than some people want to say. In this country, the biggest problem, we have two major problems, is this gang that wants to destroy Serbia to the end, which is very broad and well-organised, united. We must stand up to this gang as a people and as citizens of Serbia. The other big problem is corruption and crime. We need to correct that together in the judiciary and see how it is possible for some judgments to be passed in one way, and some judgments are passed in another way. These are things that no one alive can understand and that no one alive can understand today in this country. All Serbian citizens know that. That's why it's of paramount importance for us not to abolish the law, I can't say abolishing, but not to reduce the right to judicial protection for every citizen. At the same time, it is of paramount importance to us that we have an incomparably better judicial system, and that they, again, are being built, are 10% of the maximum, and that is my flat-rate assessment and estimate that the exact number of judges who are ready for the money to decide what they want, therefore, to change that and to show the public how we are able to stand up to it. If we do not, then they will at any time and in any case, one for 500 euros, and another 5,000 euros depending on what is the case, the object of the dispute or anything else, will be able to make judgments that come to mind. I think that this would send a message to the citizens of Serbia, which is very important to them, which is that we are defined to fight corruption, to fight crime in the judiciary and that we want to have justice, to have the right and to respect the principle of justice. Only if we succeed in doing so will Serbia have the future and the killing of Milos Karaklajic, the killing of all other people, go undetected as another murder and it happened to someone else. We're going to show on the case how it can never happen again, because whoever committed that crime, whoever did it, they're going to have to do it fat and how fat they fit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16430	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16431	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the end of this debate, I would like to thank you. There were a number of objections to be taken into account, but as I said in my opening statement, a number of remarks that can indeed be established will have to be solved in that other system way. For your information, the national justice reform strategy has been done. They'll go to round tables and discussions in April of the month, and I'd like to ask that we really take part in this debate and achieve the best we can by looking at the problems that arise. It's been said here that there are systemic problems. I couldn't agree more. So I say, on the basis of this strategy, let us pass those laws that are then valid and ensure the independence of the judiciary and that independent budget, but with the proper control of the state on all three branches of government, as they should be doing. I'd like to point out, and regarding these laws, it was an objection when it comes to judges, not employees. I said, from this part of the funds we get, last year we even raised the judges 15.7 and the employees 38.2. We're fully aware that if we don't have people ready to work, how much materially secure, and on the other hand, if we don't have young people who will come to learn this job, we won't have good judges tomorrow. For these reasons, we've raised even more, given the resources left over from our taxi. We intend to do it this year. The issue of inflation will be about those increases that go on a regular basis. Last year it was 9.1%, this year it will have to follow the full inflation it is and it will be some increase beyond this attempt to improve the material position. On the other hand, you do a few things. One of the things we try to do is mediation. How to avoid this very expensive process, as well as better-organised countries, richer countries are increasingly moving on to this system, that citizens have much better and simpler protection without being exposed to some large and expensive litigation or proceedings. On the other hand, we also do law on legal aid. Right away, it's a little bit of a problem that the de facto material state of our country is going to be difficult to secure the possibility of establishing a valid fund immediately, so that we can help citizens, significantly, with free protection, and that will have to be regulated in co-operation with the lawyer. One more thing I want to point out here, there's been a lot of complaints that there's a problem with the judiciary. There's no dispute that there's a problem, because if they weren't there, we wouldn't try everything to do to reform the judiciary. The fact is that corruption is increased compared to the previous period, but I would pray that we stick to the fact that the minority doesn't pay the price and most of it, because if we say that most work honestly, honestly, let us view this as individual cases that we have to respond to properly, and systematically solve and ensure that there are no such cases in the future. For these reasons, I thank you again for your participation. Some things have also been accepted by amendments and will be done. I hope, when there's been a discussion of the amendments, that we'll find some common language there, too. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16432	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16433	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 1st People's Parliament on how the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works. I think everyone now sees how and how benefits are used, and what people and citizens of Serbia call disadvantages in the Serbian Parliament. I went out to say one more thing that's very important. In fact, the general public has been informed, although some do not answer to broadcast it via their TV channels, radio programs or to publish in their newspapers, but it is interesting that the political public is silent that Vojislav Seselj is again banned from communication with the outside world. I don't know what you're yawning about, it should be a shame and shame for you to cry, because Vojislav Seselj can't talk to his family either, so, not his children, grandchildren, his wife, anyone who doesn't know why, that it's not clear to anyone why and that nobody says it's a brutal violation of basic human rights and freedom and that it's absolutely unacceptable. I can't understand that all those who are considered political opponents of the SRS, so because they're our opponents, they won't say a single word to that effect. We have seen in the previous hacks that were led against our people, and then against Tomislav Nikolic, that some were even trying to get on that ship, they were only a little short on finding meat and that they could talk, say something. Some, though, were correct, so they openly said that they had no evidence of it and that they would not participate. I have to admit that this kind of silence about such an event, about the kind of harassment that's being committed against one man, it's just as if some people don't have a conscience or don't want to talk about someone who thinks differently and who, in a political sense, differs. I'm just asking if human rights and freedoms are guaranteed, that is, their respect guaranteed only for a particular circle of people, and for others there should never be and never have anything to confess to them. So we're asking a question, and we're asking neither this country nor this government -- what are you silent about, why aren't you talking about it? That it should happen to anyone, so tomorrow when he leaves, look, and that Natasa Kandic, in accordance with justice, justice and justice, behind bars, we will bring her bananas and oranges at least once a month. Seeing as she can't do it without a cigar, we'll take it to her once a month. You are not in a position, as a state, where Serbia is threatened, where it is clear that they are carrying out action against Serbia, against the president of Serbia's largest political party, no one can say a single word. (President: You're out of time. ) Dear Mr. Nikolic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to bring an end. So, I find it interesting that everyone is quiet and being silly, like nothing ever happened. This is what I want to point out, not only to you in the National Assembly, not only to the citizens of Serbia, but to the entire world public, on what is happening to Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, and to see who will and in what way will react, to see who will rebel against it, to see how it is possible that there is no trial of this man who went to The Hague tribunal alone for two and a half years. They don't seem to have any evidence. I've put this "look" under quotes, because it's clear they don't. Their whole story comes down to a verbal delinquent, and they judge a man for a different opinion. They could have done it in a different way, but apparently they didn't know how. (President: You've been over time for two minutes. I'm sorry, Mr. Mikhailovich, I'm done. In any case, Serbian citizens know what to do about it and how to judge, but I expect from you, from political parties, as I asked on Friday for one issue. We ask you to plead, to see if there are any who will continue to remain silent and those who will support the UN tribunal's savage action against one man, only because he is defiant, only because he opposes them and only because they cannot obey him. They may be able to put him in custody, but his thoughts and what a man really does, they can never conquer or win. As you can see, there's Tomislav Nikolic in the Serbian Parliament, he was at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I think tomorrow, whether he's in front of the Court of Justice or where he's already handing over that criminal complaint against Natasha Kandic. It's time for free people to breathe freely and bandits to go to jail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16434	I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the High Council of Justice, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in Combating Organized Crime, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the Law on the Law on the Law on War Crimes, the Proposal for a Law on the Organisation and the Jurisdiction of the State Authorities on the Fight against High Technical Crime. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to a joint principle search of the 9-16th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON CONSERVATION AND AGENCY, AGENCY, SECURITATION AND LIQUIDATION OF BANKS, BANKS, AGENCY FOR ISSUES, GARANCE FONDUSION AND FINANCIAL LIZING Authorised representatives for these points of the agenda: DSS Slavoljub Matić, DS Aleksandar Vlahović and SPS Bojan Kekić. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 9 to 16, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft deposit insurance law, the draft law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, the draft law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, the Proposal for a law on the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending the Guarantee Fund Act, the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act. In accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia set a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16436	We're going back to work. It's been 30 seconds. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16437	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of financial laws ahead of us. I would speak, since the point is united, of all these laws in short; of course, if there are questions, during the discussion I will answer the questions of the MPs. The first law on the agenda is the draft deposit insurance law. As you know, currently under the old law (i.e. federal law) secured deposits in banks amount to 5,000 dinars. This, therefore, is under the old law and therefore the National Bank introduced a 50% reserve three or four years ago on all the accumulated foreign exchange savings of business banks to further guarantee the savings stakes of citizens. This has had positive effects on bank savings growth, as at the end of 2000, savings in banks amounted to only 10,000,000 euros and currently amounts to about a billion euros. With this law, we want to systematically regulate deposit insurance, so that this guaranteed amount of deposits guaranteed by the state increases from 5,000 dinars, which was a very small amount, to 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent. So, in the future, a deposit of up to 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent will be secured. Also, this law provides for a more efficient and faster payment of the amount secured and introduces mandatory insurance for banks at the Deposit Insurance Agency. A special independent deposit insurance fund will be educated. Different types of insurance premiums are introduced and, what is new, savings, savings-credit organisations, savings-credit cooperatives are exempted from this insurance scheme. . This law is in line with the relevant European Union directive, which is 94/19, because we are introducing a mandatory insurance scheme with the deposit insurance agency. In various countries, the amounts are different, but the relative strength of our country is determined to be 3,000 euros per deposit and per bank. As regards the payment of secured deposits, it must start within 30 days from the date of the possible opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. The Agency shall pay the amount within 120 days of the date of submission of the request for a depositor. These are the basic characteristics of this law. The next law on the agenda is the draft law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. As you know, so far there's been a deposit insurance agency, bankruptcy and bank liquidation. It was a federal agency and it had a role to provide deposits and, among other things, to privatise the banking sector. Since the reform of the banking system has been very radical and some 25 banks in the last three or four years have lost their license to work, we have come up with a situation that we really now have a very solid banking system, where it is not necessary in the name of this agency to state the words of bankruptcy, liquidation or some such, given that the basic role of this agency will be to secure deposits. As far as this agency is concerned, it will have the status of a public agency and, in fact, will be the successor of this current, existing agency. So, we're not forming a new agency, but this existing one is changing its name and becoming the Deposit Insurance Agency, established this way under the law of the Republic of Serbia, because so far it's been established under federal law. The agency will have as its primary function deposit insurance operations, as well as the function of bankruptcy and liquidation manager in banks and insurance companies. After the Insurance Act was adopted last year, where the National Bank of Serbia took over the supervision of insurance companies, the Deposit Insurance Agency will also have the authority to privatise not only banks, but also insurance companies. So, all key institutions of the financial system. In fact, the legislation separates the function of privatisation; in the real sector it is done by the Privatisation Agency, and the Deposit Insurance Agency will do, in addition to the privatisation of banks, and the privatisation business of insurance companies. As regards the Agency’s administrative bodies, these are: the Management Board, on the one hand, and the Director. By law, three members of the board of directors are members of the government as finance minister, the economy minister and one, however, is not a member of the government, but a vice governor of the National Bank, in charge of control affairs, and the remaining four members are elected and resolved by the government on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia. The next law on the agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. The basic newspaper in this law is that it is directly adapted to this previous law, the deposit insurance law, or the deposit insurance agency and the privatisation authority of the insurance companies, is transferred from the Ministry of Business to the Deposit Insurance Agency. In other words, given that in the previous Insurance Act, the Ministry of Finance lost jurisdiction to control the work of insurance companies and that this is done by the National Bank of Serbia, and given that the Ministry of Economy is engaged through the Privatisation Agency in privatising companies in the real sector, this law empowers the Deposit Insurance Agency to privatise insurance companies. As you know, the reform of the banking sector started in 2001, and by all estimates it is one of the best implemented reforms of the banking sector in transition countries. On the other hand, there was a delay in restructuring and privatisation of insurance companies; only last year, when a new law was passed and when the supervisory has been strengthened, have they created a basis for introducing order in the insurance sector as it has already been done in the banking sector. We are planning, speaking on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that by the end of July, after the adoption of these laws, we will open a tender for a privatisation adviser for the Novi Sad DDOR and to announce a tender for the privatisation of this insurance company at the beginning of next year. Another change in the law compared to the regulation so far is that the deadline for the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance is extended, instead of ending this year, is extended until the end of 2007, so until 31 December 2007, because in the process of applying the law it was observed that it would not be celibate for this separation to be completed within two to three years and therefore the deadline to be moved. Also, this law allows employees of insurance companies to have the right to compensation that cannot exceed 15% of the purchase price achieved by selling social capital in insurance companies, which means that after privatisation, the DDOR employees and former employees will receive 15% of the price that will be achieved by the process. Also, 5% of the sale is scheduled to go to a special guarantee fund to secure the payment of secured deposits for those insurance companies that went bankrupt. This is fundamentally related to the amendments to the Insurance Act. There is also a proposal for a law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. This was previously regulated by federal regulations; as the Constitutional Charter was passed in the meantime, the legal conditions for the initiation of these procedures changed. This is a new legal regulation in the field of bankruptcy and liquidation, and it is necessary to further strengthen the stability of the banking system, as well as the insurance system. This law also aims to bring us into line with other laws governing this area, which cover bankruptcy procedures and forced liquidation of banks and insurance companies. Namely, the Business Society Act only regulates voluntary liquidation of economic operators, but this law introduces indirect and direct supervision of the implementation of such liquidation by the National Bank of Serbia. If it is established that the procedure is conducted to the detriment of the creditors, a solution shall be made to the mandatory winding-up. Also, due to the specific nature of the operations of banks and insurance companies, which belong to the financial sphere, the control and supervision of their operations is carried out by the National Bank, in accordance with the Law on Banks and the Insurance Act. This law provides conditions for a consistent and adequate implementation of the bankruptcy and winding-up procedure in cases where the National Bank of Serbia adopts a decision to withdraw the bank's work permit, i.e. to carry out insurance operations, which completes the legislation governing this area. Another law related to this earlier is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations. It is merely a technical adaptation of this law to the Deposit Insurance Agency, deposit insurance law and the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. So, several members of the Banks Act are being changed to adapt to these laws that we have previously proposed. Finally, we also have a law on the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia. We believe this is an important law, given that exports are the main priority of the Serbian economy. A few months ago, we sent this law into procedure. Serbia is one of the few countries in the world that has no export insurance agency, which is working effectively. This is how we set up such an agency. All other developed countries have such agencies. As you know, Hermes is doing these jobs in Germany, Kofas in France, Control Bank in Austria, Exim Bank in the United States -- literally all countries have such institutions. The former SFRY had a JUBMES bank dealing with export insurance. However, the JUBMES bank now operates as well as any other business bank and has imposed the need to set up such an institution at the level of the Republic of Serbia. The agency's initial capital is 25m euros. This way we will get an institution that will significantly reduce the risk of our exports abroad, both commercial and non-commercial exports. However, this agency will also have a function of lending to the domestic export economy. In fact, very low interest rates will be provided for the lending of exporters who have already proven their foreign placement. The interest rate on the annual new one for these long-term loans that our exporters will receive will be between three and four percent annually, as the assets that are the underlying capital of these institutions are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget and hence the possibility of going at interest rates lower than market rates. The aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the primary objective of economic policy, is just to increase exports. Last year we had a major foreign trade deficit and we pulled a whole series of moves to reduce it. That's what we did in part in the first four months of this year, because we significantly reduced the external trade deficit by almost one third. Export growth in the first four months of this year was 51% from Serbia, while imports fell by 6% to 7%. The coverage of Serbian exports with imports at this time is about 50%, and in the same period last year it was about 30%, which means that the whole set of measures, from the introduction of value added tax, is beyond the stimulating measures for export growth, such as the inclusion of all those companies that have 70% of the total turnover in exports to so-called so-called. The large exporters returned to VAT within 15 days helped improve our exports. However, Serbia still has to do much to boost the competitiveness of the economy. One such institution will contribute, through the lending of our large exporters, to improve the placement of goods on foreign markets. The next law is the draft law amending the Guarantee Fund Act. In the application of the existing Guarantee Fund Act, we have seen appropriate limits. In fact, there have been restrictions on certain banks which have issued a good part of the guarantee and are now limited to not issuing additional guarantees, so that this law increases the limit of the guarantees issued to the individual bank, allowing the Fund to issue a larger amount of its guarantees precisely in favour of those business banks that have been proven on the market as banks that have the means and the willingness to finance development projects. In Article 9(2) of this Act, the total nominal amount of guarantees and guarantees issued at the request of the Bank may be up to two and a half times the amount of the Fund’s capital, which will be the guarantee potential of the Fund in the future. In addition, the nominal amount of guarantees and superguarantee may be up to 20% of the Fund's guarantee potential, and according to the individual economic operator up to 5% of the Fund's capital, dispersing the limit. Also, there is an increase in the limit of guarantees issued to the individual bank, so that instead of so far up to 20% of the capital limit is up to 20% of the guarantee potential of the Fund. The guarantee potential of the Fund is calculated by multiplying capital by 2.5. In this way we will create institutional preconditions for an even greater activity of the Fund. I would like to inform you that the current capital of the Fund is about a billion dinars and that the Guarantee Fund has so far approved 1,954 requests different banks for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises or farmers, totalling 11.136.000,000 dinars, with 50% of these funds guaranteed for agricultural long-term loans, and 50% are for industry. The last law we change is the Financial Lising Act. We have done this law together with the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Business, but as the competent ministry, we propose amendments and additions. In fact, the National Bank of Serbia is given the authority here to carry out supervisory and lease organisations, for reasons of putting them in a similar position as the banks. So, so far, we've had two laws that regulate this area -- the Financial Lising Act and the Business Registers Agency Act. However, it is a very specific financial activity that is in expansion. So far, we have not had more precise legal frameworks that would allow for greater safety for participants in this business. In practice, we have faced in certain cases with the danger of an uncontrolled level of public consumption, which increases the external trade deficit. We've been facing credit-related spillages from banks to financial-lising companies, so we needed to further regulate the provisions that govern this area. In fact, this law will achieve greater security and trust of the beneficiaries of the lising, by prescribing the conditions under which the licenses and criteria of supervision of the business of the lender are issued. That would be all the laws we had on the agenda today in this first set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16438	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the president of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia's MP, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16439	I warned the President of Parliament last time, I warn him now, and I ask him to put the Assembly's laws on declaring the day of mourning in the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. The need for this is indeed great, as it threatens to cause great consequences for our country and our people by various partial political decisions by some authorities of local self-government or authorities of territorial autonomy, such as the proposal of the province's Executive Council of Vojvodina, which asked the Government of Serbia to declare on July 11th the day of mourning in the Republic of Serbia. We don't have legislation on this today. Indeed, it is unrecorded that the day of mourning is being declared for the events that took place ten years ago, and it is particularly politically debatable whether such decisions can be made when we have not declared the day of mourning over the sad anniversary of the massacre against members of the Serb people throughout the territory of the former SFRY. Also, this provides a possibility of great manipulation. On Friday morning, I warned that a statement by the Serbian Force Movement, which I mentioned here, would follow during the day as a constituent part of the province's Executive Council, i.e. the government of the province of Vojvodina, led by Bojan Pajtic. As far as I know, there are also members of the Serbian Force Movement -- Bogoljub Karic in the government. The deputy prime minister is Tihomir Simic, who is a senior official of the Serbian Force Movement. The paper said that the province's Executive Council had sent an initiative to the government of the Republic of Serbia to declare the day of mourning on 11 July. Bogoljub Karic makes a statement saying he is protesting sharply against the lies and insults heard at the expense of the Serbian Force Movement and his leader Bogoljub Karic for the assembly speaker, of course, mentions me as the bearer of these lies and insults. He says the Serbian Movement has not launched an initiative to declare July 11th a day of mourning. What do you mean, it's not? Is this movement an integral part of Bojan Pitiæ's cabinet or not? Is Bogoljub Karic still in coalition with the Democratic Party and Canka on the territory of Vojvodina or not? (From the O.R.: Yes. ) Since he is here a representative of the independent MPs, now called the Movement of Serbia - Bogoljub Karic, I ask the President of the Assembly to give him one word to explain whether they support the autonomouss in Vojvodina and whether they are asking for 11 July to be declared a day of mourning in the Republic of Serbia? But even more tragic than all that, it is not only that Karic cannot say that he is behind the decision of his circuit organs, but that he is attacking us here. He says, "This is the continuation of a 15-year attempt to deceive the public with false patriotism, which in the past has taken thousands of human lives, and has led the country to the brink of destruction." That's what Bogoljub Karic says. He thinks he has said a great philosophical thought, and it is clear to all that the Socialist Party of Serbia may have fallen from power because of just as Bogoljub Karic, with whom the SPS has never had a relationship and today trying to arrest Slobodan Milosevic, another time proclaiming him a saint, and for the traitors Slobodan Milosevic, he takes us for the third time and steals radicals to defend Seselj from Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic, etc. This is an attempt not to deceive the public for 15 years, such a lie that many who have been engaged in media manipulations in our space could envy. I really ask the President of Parliament to give a word to this independent MP to explain here what kind of policy the Serbian Force is conducting. He says false patriotism. False patriotism, the SPS attack, has been under attack for 15 years, and the Socialist Party of Serbia has been in power for ten years. Who are you attacking? You attack those you constantly call to go to the coalition to destroy the Republic government. What are you talking about here? Please put this law on the agenda as soon as possible. Bogoljub Karic will break up the coalition with the Democratic Party in Vojvodina, Canka and the Democratic Party in Vojvodina. Let Tihomir Simic go public and say that Bojan Pajtic abused and shamed Vojvodina by demanding that such events be marked not by the day of mourning be marked. The state needs to publicly condemn all crimes. We were looking for it here -- in the Serbian Parliament, to condemn all crimes. But someone won't. Someone just wants to condemn crimes with which the people of Serbia and the states of Serbia have no connection, on purpose, to put a noose around Serbia's neck. Therefore, Mr. President, that law has long arrived in the process. It was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus. Put it on the agenda – the law on proclaiming the day of mourning, and Bojan Pajtic, Tihomir Simic and others, Chanka, Kostreš, from the Government and the Assembly of the AP Vojvodina... So they're even thinking of probably declaring in Vojvodina a separate day of mourning over Srebrenica. It is unfortunate that we do not have the strength to see that it is politics, that it is not grief for the victims, but it is a desire to artificially find those in Serbia who have committed these crimes and who, as you know, have been convicted at the time of our government. If it's from Bogoljub Karic, it's a lot. Or maybe I didn't get it right, so I'm asking Mr. Lekic to explain it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16440	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I had to warn you in time, and now, according to the Rules of Procedure, be kind, there's no reason to work past the Rules of Procedure. Where are you going, sir, wait. No one can approach a pay phone in the Rules of Procedure until the president gives him his word. Be kind, wait on the side, by law, as for all, be kind, stand by to give an explanation. First, Mr. Dacic, on Friday, I took your request well, as a request from the MP and president of a parliamentary group. In contrast, you know very well that the President of the Assembly will do everything in his legal capacity to put something on the agenda. You can do that from October 1st. Prior to that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the agenda and some item on the agenda may request and place as established agendas or government or 84 MPs. The President shall determine the date of the session, depending on the technical conditions and whether a session is under way. So we simply have to stick to the law, regardless of what opinion it is. Secondly, it is not right to call for the MPs of the extraparliamentary parties to turn because they do not sit in this House by law for any MP of the extraparliamentary party, because it is not possible to become a member of parliament if you have not been on someone's election list, whether for a coalition or for someone else. When it comes to independent MPs, of course, many of them, having just become independent, learn it, achieve independence, so they only address one possible way. This is by applying under article 89 and the chairman always says on time when it is done, and in case it has not yet become a practice, then asking, as a former secretary, and if you have seen, the secretary went not only to the parliamentary groups, but also to the independent MPs to ask if they wanted to speak. In contrast, after the address of the president and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary lists, as you know, there is this common list and Mr Lekic is second on the list, because he is against export insurance and these laws on the agenda. So he'll, like someone who's against, talk to another. Now he's got a lot of rights to replication. I ask you, Mr. Lekic, to comply with the law next time and to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So when the president asks you to leave the pay phone, you leave, and now you have a word because you are personally mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone wants to attribute to the Serbian Movement what he didn't do. The Serbian Force movement did not create an initiative to make the day of mourning in Serbia happen on July 11th. Okay, it's not that funny, easy. I mean, the Serbian Movement condemns all crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, both against Serbs and on the other hand. So there were crimes on all sides, there were crimes against Serbs in the war, and there are individuals -- Serbs who have committed crimes. Anyone who's committed a crime has to answer and there's a right to responsibility. Let every war crimes offender be convicted. I don't think Mr Dacic had the need to invoke the Serbian Movement for several reasons and to find himself offended by some of the facts presented by the Serbian Movement of Forces, because he was the first to start with Dacic. I don't think it should be attributed to one opposition party like this. We, gentlemen, have another situation in the country as it is now; we should discuss the economic situation in Serbia from this pay phone, not some lame old people. We know that citizens in Serbia live badly, and that should be the subject. This pay phone is used by individuals for lies and for some of their political points, and I don't think that's good. We should all turn to work for the better citizens of Serbia tomorrow. I believe that what is attributed to the Serbian Movement is not true and I stand behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16442	Thank you, Mr. Lekic, and thank you for choosing your words carefully, but please, even more carefully, because from your presentation someone might think that crimes are being committed. You're in favour of the right to work. It's not possible to say it like that in any way, because it can sound terribly dangerous, and I ask you to choose words this carefully in the future so that something is not misunderstood. Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure, but please, strictly stick to the time, we all have to have the same rights. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16443	Of course, I will choose words and absolutely respect what you said at the beginning, that because of the large number of legislative proposals, this cannot come on the agenda until October, but whenever there is a need for this, I will report to the Rules of Procedure and point out the necessary adoption of such a law, because I consider it to be the subject of numerous abuses in our country. On the other hand, it does not respond to numerous examples of atrocities against members of our people, even excelling in our media and calling for public stands here in Belgrade and those who have committed crimes against Serbs and, of course, after 5 October 2000 and amnesty from Serbian prisons. In any case, Mr. Lekic knows, and he recently belonged to a party who was also in power with the SPS, as well as Bogoljub Karic, who served as minister in the government of Mirko Marjanovic, and against whom you issued this statement. Do you think you betrayed him against us? You betrayed yourself. You're here saying that for 15 years someone has been misleading the public and that we're representatives of false patriotism that in the near past, you say, took thousands of human lives and led the country to the brink of destruction. I've never heard someone talk so bad about themselves. Who are you saying this to? What are you talking about here? So this isn't about replacing thesis. I didn't even mention the movement of Serbia's forces when I spoke, and don't let the Serbian Movement attach great importance to itself. It's not your idea. It's the idea of DS, the idea of a sudden Chanka against which you're not. Therefore, you agree with this idea, the province's executive council, and whose members you are, that idea sent Kostunica's cabinet. You have the right to think what you want, but don't give others lessons, don't spit in the plate you've been eating from for 10 years. You're still eating from that plate, which you should respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16444	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has the mandated representative of the DS Parliamentary Group Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that even a change in the Rules of Procedure is not enough to make the ruling majority more effective from the point of view, since we have had the opportunity to listen to the unnecessary expansion of this session and to discuss very important issues precisely than those which give full support to the ruling majority, or minority government. I really think that the chairman should react in these cases and concentrate on what is the topic of today's session of the Serbian Parliament. Mr. Speaker, Parliament Speaker, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, the Democratic Party welcomes the proposals for legislation from the economic sphere. We believe that some of these laws that will ensure faster privatisation, primarily by insurance companies, should have been held in the assembly much earlier. In view of the situation which has already been described in the opening statement as a significant delay and significant delay in terms of what is happening in the banking sector, or what is happening in the economy, the privatisation process itself, the speed of the privatisation process in the abovementioned activities, it is certain that all these laws, including the law on the agency for the incentive and financing of exports, including the laws which, in some ways, represent amendments and additions already made to the legislation, are necessary at this point. Because, with the construction of new institutions, our country will be in a situation where there is much stronger institutional support for businesses and, therefore, one step forward in the economic transition. What I want to point to, as a representative of the DS, is something where we've already intervened with amendments. I am sorry that we had not previously had a discussion of the Finance Committee, and only then began the assembly session, since I assume that we would get adequate answers on the very Finance Committee, or the legislator himself would have enough time to amend the relevant provisions in certain laws. I think that in this case the debate would be more meaningful; it is obvious that the speed of Parliament's work, despite this unnecessary amount of time that was previously caused, is something that work on committees, at least for now, cannot follow. I will talk about three laws: the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, the law on the insurance agency and the financing of exports of the Republic of Serbia and the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. As far as the first two laws are concerned, we have individual objections to the very text of the law. I want here, because of you and the public, to note what these remarks have been made by the DS parliamentary group. When it comes to the law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, we find it unacceptable to decidently state in the law that funds for the Agency's work are provided from donations of legal and physical domestic or foreign persons. We can fully accept donor support for the start of the Agency's work and for the establishment of the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, but indeed we in the Democratic Party do not understand what donations of natural persons will ensure the continued financing of the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. In practice so far, since 2001, we have had a large number of agencies. This is a modern practice of state functioning, primarily by the executive authority, i.e. the establishment of independent institutions in relation to the executive authority, which in certain areas should assume the office of the executive authority and, with an attribute of independence, later implement the relevant tasks entrusted with the law. We've had multiple discussions on funding the agency's work. As far as I'm aware, we've never had a situation to make donations, especially domestic natural persons, a source of funding for the work of the insurance and exporting agency of the Republic of Serbia. So, once again, it is quite right to fund the start of the agency's work from donor funds. There is a question of whether the donations of natural persons should be the basis for funding the start of the agency's work. But it's absolutely unacceptable to donate to, above all, physical and above all domestic persons, but also to foreign individuals, for the continued work of the agency. I really think this is about error, not intent, when it comes to this member of the law, I think it's about Article 5 of the law, I think it's about point 2 point 1. We propose to adopt the DS amendment, the complete second text is absolutely acceptable to the DS, provided that this amendment is adopted, which will remove many concerns. This seems to be completely irrelevant, and essentially opens up here the possibility of discretionary decision-making, which will be caused by funding by individual donors. Finally, the question arises as to what is the link between the funds that the agency places to encourage exports and, on the other hand, donations that come from individual legal and natural persons. I think that big headaches can bring about whoever's going to enforce this law tomorrow, or who's going to run the agency, who's going to be watching, more than the real benefits of it. The second law is the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. And here we also have an intervention in a very important member. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to try to convince you very briefly what this is really about. It is Article 5(3). Article 5 discusses the launch of a administrative dispute against the resolutions made by the National Bank of Serbia and what happens next if the court makes the opposite decision, i.e. if the court annuls the decision to initiate bankruptcy proceedings with banks, i.e. insurance companies. So far we have had a number of such cases, a large number of banks over which bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, but we have also had decisions of competent court cases, it was usually the Supreme Court, because this is a decision taken in the second-degree procedure, which were negative in relation to the original solution launched by the National Bank of Serbia. If you carefully read Article 3, then you will see that this is about, regardless of the court's decision, the solution that the National Bank of Serbia made in the first case is what it is since all bankruptcy deadlines begin. The question arises as to why we need a second-degree administrative procedure in general if there is a possibility that the bankruptcy procedure will continue without any problem according to the deadlines set by the adoption of the first decision to launch the bankruptcy procedure. The question arises as to what kind of protection is achieved in the judicial administrative procedure in the second instance, since it is quite possible to repeat the same decision in the next cycle by the central bank, while at the same time it is very clear that the deadlines are running and that, in a concrete case, even by repeating the decision-making deadlines since the first decision was made. We feel that this is not good, regardless of what we have in the Democratic Party, we have huge complaints in the way that trade courts have resolved, above all, trade courts, but also in the way that some other decisions have been made. It's not good, because in this way, I'm afraid that there's a disturbance or mutual entanglement of two key functions on which the rule of law is based, and that means persuasion of independent institutions, on the one hand, to some extent, executive authorities, and on the other hand, judicial authorities and denial of one for the benefit of this first. I think it is necessary to consider whether such a solution in the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies is meaningful, not considering what the situation in terms of....
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16446	Mr. Vlahovicu, are you using for the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16447	Yeah. So, not taking into account what the situation today is about efficiency and the way the judicial function works, but given what we want to achieve in the future, which is that we have a state in which there is a clear division between judicial, administrative and executive authorities. Of course, I ended up leaving what's most important to us, and that's the law on amendments to the Insurance Act. I will concentrate on three key remarks coming from the DS parliamentary group. These are remarks concerning the way former employees exercise their rights in the privatisation process of insurance companies. Then, the remarks in the way in which non-business property is treated and an objection relating to the supervisory of insurance activity, something similar to what we talked about last time we had a discussion about the Insurance Act. Let's get in line. First, the Democratic Party and I, as its authorised representative, believe that they are not good solutions implemented by Article 36, especially members of 243a, which are within the framework of Article 36. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, Article 243g and Article 243d. What's this about? First, we feel it is not good for the deposit insurance agency to claim the right to sell non-business assets to insurance companies. It is not the same and it is not reciprocity with the Privatisation Act, where it is said that the Privatisation Agency has the right to sell parts of the property. Yes, but in the restructuring process. The privatisation agency is not authorised by any assembly act, i.e. by law to sell parts of the company’s assets if they are in the regular privatisation process, therefore, outside of restructuring. First, I would like to say that this is a solution implemented by Article 243a within the framework of Article 36 which is legally difficult to sustain, because it directly violates the independence of a legal entity. In this case, the legal entity is insurance companies and, if the deposit insurance agency is allowed to sell parts of the assets of the insurance companies on a voluntary basis, I am afraid that other provisions relating to the independence of the legal entity, which are regulated not only by the Insurance Act, but also by the Business Society Act, would be directly endangered. Secondly, more importantly, we believe that it is economical indemnity to allow the agency to sell parts of non-business property, for the simple reason it is understood that the sale of non-business assets will represent revenue for the budget and that these funds will not be directly used to finance the restructuring of insurance companies. First of all, here I think of the company "Dunav" which needs a thorough restructuring, i.e. there is a likelihood that these funds are used to finance restructuring, but these funds must be covered by the 2005 Budget or Rebalance Act or, if something like that is planned for 2006, then the 2006 budget law. There's a question of what it's all about. The fact is that both insurance companies, and here, above all, are thinking of the DDOR and the Danube, must carry out a preprivatization process to raise financial and business performances. It is not difficult to conclude that this primarily refers to "Dunav", given that its non-business, i.e. business assets which are not used to finance the underlying business function, which is why the company "Dunav" is founded, especially large and far larger than DDOR's business assets, which are not used for basic business purposes. In my opinion, it is a quite good solution that has been mentioned even once by the authorities sitting in the Serbian government and the National Bank, which is the privatisation of the Danube through an initial public offering. This means a permanent quotation of the Danube stock market, and that would be the first time, I don't think we have a lot of such enterprises, better said today, we don't have any company that's ready to be the subject of initial public offerings. However, it is certainly good that the largest domestic insurance company should remain home-owned in this way, as it is understood that a large number of small shareholders will be in a position to be partial owners of the company "Dunav". However, in order for Dunav to be ready once again for the realisation of the initial public offering, a thorough restructuring of the company is needed. This restructuring costs a lot and I fear that the price of this restructuring will be much higher than the potential sources of income from the sale of non-business assets. In other words, the government from the budget will have to give additional support to the preparation of the Dunav company for an initial public offering, so it is illogical that the funds obtained from the sale of non-business assets are generated in the budget and the introduction of the Dunav company at risk that perhaps in the next hand, after the next elections, there is no same will by the executive to finance further restructuring of the Danube and possibly a lasting loss of potential revenues. In my opinion, Mr. Minister, Members of Parliament, it is much better to carry out strong control and supervision of the company "Dunav", but also to leave the funds that otherwise generate from the sale of assets that are not used for the basic business function of the company "Dunav" for the further process of financing restructuring in the process of preparing the initial public offering. What is it that needs to be done? A lot of things. It's not just a further downsizing of employees. This is also the expansion of the insurance product range, i.e. the rationalisation of business and the financing of information technology, i.e. the achievement of positive business in the next period and the way to prepare the Danube well. That's why we think this is economically illogical at 243a. The other thing is a solution that provides for the distribution of money instead of sharing shares with employees and former employees, i.e. pensioners in insurance companies. I'm afraid there seems to be a dangerous precedent here, which could be a solution to be seen by public and other companies tomorrow. I don't think this is good, because in this way it directly violates the proposed mixed model of privatisation, which has been used so far in all cases, except in the case of restructuring, which is quite understandable. Secondly, this is not good from an educational point of view for citizens who need to start learning what action in Serbia is. If you tell them – I will share the money for you, and I will not share your actions, you are detimulatively affecting the development of action in Serbia, because if the state says - better to have money than action, you are not promoting savings, you are not promoting investment of free money in the economy by buying actions, it is really not a good way to promote the development of action in Serbia. Once again I say - very dangerous precedent. It is legally possible to change the basic model of privatisation, but it seems to me that this is not at all good for the development of action in Serbia, and I am sure that most MPs will understand why this way of meeting the interests of employees and former employees is not good for the division of actions. In the end, it is understood that insurance companies will raise their value over time and certainly, if you share 200 euros per year of stock, that a small shareholder will have the opportunity to carry out a higher economic valorisation tomorrow, in two, three or five years, when he sells the shares. In the end, I thank you for the presidency's tolerance, that's surveillance. Last time we talked about it, we said Serbia is one of the few countries where supervision of the operation of the insurance sector in the central bank. We believe, once again, that it is not good for the central bank, the National Bank of Serbia, to carry out the surveillance and supervisory functions of the insurance activity. In the privatisation process you will have a whole series of interchanges of individual institutions. On the one hand, control of privatisation will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, on the other hand, supervision of the regular functioning of the insurance activity will be carried out by the National Bank. That's not good. It is much better for an independent institution, such as individual agencies, to monitor and monitor the regular operations of insurance activities. The National Bank of Serbia did not arrange a cacuum-pacum banking system, so that it has enough luft and space to be able to deal with insurance. On the contrary, we believe that insurance supervision should be in the jurisdiction of an independent institution, an independent agency, not in the jurisdiction of the central bank. In this way we are just pushing this way to take down executive function and transfer to independent agencies that will be completely independent of the executive power, but also essentially, not only by the legal pen and by the letter of the law, but essentially. So, to recap, the Democratic Party once again welcomes all these legal projects that have come today and that we are discussing. We have no objection to most of these laws. We have two concrete objections to the aforementioned bankruptcy laws and to the liquidation of banks and insurance companies and to the law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports and Essential Objections to the proposed text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. I hope that the Proposer will really accept with full attention the objections of the Democratic Party and we are ready to give a lot of interpretation on the Finance Committee as to why we consider these provisions to be not good and that perhaps in the short term they can achieve the objective of the Executive Authority, but in the long run they are bad for the development of the insurance sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16448	Thank you, Mr. Vlahovic. The president of the SRS parliamentary group has the word, and I welcome visitors on the balcony, representatives of young organisations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16449	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, a session of the National Assembly is going through the new Rules of Procedure, for all of us very calmly, in a pleasant atmosphere, come whenever you want, you don't have to come, and this hour in the newsroom of a list of the minister's service, which is being presented here today, they're pursuing free words. They're taking the property of the list "Kurir", the prey, maybe they'll expose it to auctions, you still don't know. They have orders from the minister to confiscate the property of the list "Kurir", because there is a reasonable doubt that the Courier will not carry out his tax obligations in the future. What's wrong with Curr's list? He went into conflict with crime in lines G17 plus. With who? With the fundamental promoters of these laws, with National Bank Governor Jelasic and Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. He can't, Mr. Minister, anyone who comes into conflict with you to be exposed to the state's repression. You have no right, and now I call on Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to declare immediately whether you have the right to use the authorities of the state's repression against a list that is not your will, according to a list that asks questions every day. I'll talk about your involvement in some financial malfeasance, although I'd like to ask you to interrupt the session and determine what's going on there. If it were Milosevic's time, you would have already hired NATO to defend an independent list. Since your time, the time of new democracy, the export Western democracies applied to Serbia, the paper today has no support, no authorities or opposition, there are no instruments to prevent the will of DOS government. Perhaps you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, who is known as a man who loves freedom, who says that freedom and independence should be fought, you could influence, take a short break, win some political point and show up there and ask people what they're doing to you and why they're taking your property. That would be good, and if not, we'll continue this session, but questions remain for the finance minister. What are you doing in the list "Kurir", Mr. Minister, why don't you like the cover of the list "Kurr", why don't you answer the questions that are asked on the front page? How is it that your list of "Kurir" was good when he and you discovered the affairs of some others, how was it a good CD about thefts in a part that refers to the theft of others, and part of the CD relating to your investigation of a billion dollars and some dollars in Cyprus is a lie? First, about those of DS who stole before you, that's true, and now this about you, that's a lie from that CD. This whole set of laws that we are passing in the weather, in an emergency session, serves in fact to cover what the minister, governor and firm, parts of the company G17 plus are doing on Serbia's financial market. By reading these laws, you conclude that once we adopt these laws, the National Bank will be able to take some measures towards insurance companies, according to banks, and it has been taking steps since Mladjan Dinkic started reforming banking, reforming the insurance sector. The legal solutions now cover what parts of the company G17 plus do, rampaging in the financial sector in Serbia, uninterrupted by anyone, because you are the government in the government, therefore, because your votes here in the Assembly depend on whether Vojislav Kostunica will wait for the official car in front of the apartment tomorrow or not. Let's get this straight once, do you need the DSS parts of G17 plus? Obviously, after the next election, raising from the ashes will be extremely difficult, obviously burning on all sides. You act like your hair is messy, in a house that burns completely, so you need to fix it in front of the mirror, and so do these laws. Of course, many people here will have many objections to the laws. I will go along, therefore, to talk a little bit about them, but the manner in which Mladjan Dinkic runs finances, the manner in which Jelasic runs the National Bank are not the manners for democratic society and are not the manners for the democratic society of Serbia that we want to build. It's slave-owner manners. You can't even have a private company, you can't work at a state, social firm, you don't know now, if you have a company of your own, whether the agency of Mladjan Dinkic will sell you, won't even ask you. In what way will he sell you, which is the best way for you, he will not ask you, for you do not ask. If the court makes a verdict in your favour, what does it mean if Dinkic and Jelasic say – what do we care about the court; if the court annuls the decision of the National Bank, the National Bank issues a new decision, and deadlines run from the first decision of the National Bank. Where'd you find that? Where'd you read that? Do you convince us that we should not cooperate at all, when decisions are made here on the choice of judges, prosecutors, the president of courts, because you convince us that there is no justice in Serbia? You are in power, it should be me as the representative of the only opposition party in this country to speak from this pay phone that there is no justice, and you who are of authority to convince us that the judiciary exists, so when the court makes a decision to annul the decision not to pretend that you are stronger than the court, for there is no one from the court of God, and there is no one from the courts of the earth. He has, former governor of the National Bank, current governor of the National Bank, current finance minister. Let's get this straight once, is there anything stronger in this country than courts, are you really able every day of the morning as soon as you get the court's solution to make a new decision? When the judiciary is going to be effective, when, if the minister is playing the judiciary and gets a judicial verdict, he immediately issues a new solution and throws everything into the judicial process, because there you have to ensure both the attack and the defence and the full democracy of the procedure under the law, and legal executions go to me, and every decision you make, a man waits four or five months to be annulled, and it takes you 15 minutes to issue a new one. Get the file out of the computer and just check the date. And now the signature changes, because we changed the governor of the National Bank. That's why I don't trust myself, whenever a part of your company shows up here with a bill, especially when it adopts a Rules of Procedure by which MPs no longer have to read any bill. Was it the wish of you ladies and gentlemen MPs of the ruling majority that you don't really have to read any bill, because now you really don't have to? You can only show up when there's a vote, raise your hands and put it down. You're going to walk out that little door so the press doesn't accidentally ask you what it says in Article 243, because you don't even know how many members there are of the bill. And as you would know, I excuse you, on Friday you received a session of the National Assembly with 45 points of the agenda, and Saturday (night) was the deadline for submitting the amendments. You're gonna tell me these laws are really good and really good. For example, how long has this "Kurr" been under tax control, a month or two? Did the Danube ever have that control, do you know how funds are spent there, do you need me to pull out a folder for you to see the decisions made there by the director? Did the National Bank say – we don't trust the management of the Danube, is she allowed to say, did she perhaps warn? You closed down insurance companies, you closed banks, because the governor said that the bank's management was often changed, so he said - I don't trust that management. I guess someone in the world told you -- write in law that the governor's authority that he doesn't trust management. By now, the governor could have had or could not trust management, and now, by law, he will be able to trust. Here you are saying - the mandatory liquidation procedure is being conducted over the bank and another financial organisation that has been granted permission by the National Bank of Serbia. On the basis of the decision to withdraw the bank’s work permit, i.e. the insurance business permit, the NBS shall immediately adopt a decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. And he'll bring it in the next day after he's received the offer from the liquidator. Look at the procedure, what procedure it is, how it is to meet the NBS, I don't know who in the NBS. I write to the National Bank Council three times, and I suggest that the governor be relieved, and they say, "He is doing an excellent job." And when I see his grandfather's house, I see he's doing a great job. Look, what should I blame a man who buys a million-and-500-euro house for 300,000 euros? What other word do you have for him, except that he's capable? Well, he's a civil servant, he can easily be able to buy cheaply and expensively sell. Here's to bet the governor is now able to sell it for three million euros. There will be two or three bank owners who will make the governor and release him from that burden, and then they will count on them to continue to cooperate with the governor. Look, he's so capable that within 24 hours, he'll look at the proposal and immediately come up with a solution, but if the court cancels it, he'll immediately issue a new solution, and the legal consequences of the bankruptcy proceedings will take place on the day of the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. We're turning into a country commanded by the finance minister and the governor of the National Bank, commanding. To be clear, I don't want anyone in Serbia to get away from financial discipline, because I just want to get away from the noose. I just want to get away from you closing his shop if he's doing well. If he works by the law, so what if you don't like him, what if he writes against you, nothing better than someone writing against you. If they mentioned you, Mr. Dinkich, if they don't write against you? When they praise you, I can doubt that you paid them to praise you. I doubted it for a while. No one was allowed to mention you. You took them on the road, you got on a plane to the press, nice to them, and nice to you, nobody mentions Mladjan Dinkic. Someone who is attacking him has appeared and I say – but faith in this Dinkic, he no longer pays the press.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16450	Mr. Nikolic, do you continue for the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16451	Yeah, I'm on it. When it lasted 10 or 15 days, it became degutant to you. Why would he bring you up for 15 days? I've been accused of killing people, of what I'm going to do. I'm suing tomorrow, filing criminal charges, here you go, state, if you want to protect your citizens, protect justice, truth and law, find out who's guilty and who's not guilty. So should the finance minister say -- here you go, the authorities, these write about me that I found money in Cyprus, so now there aren't any, and please be sure whether I found money in Cyprus or not, whether I lied when I said I found it or not, whether it was part of my election campaign or not. If "Kurir" suspects, Mr. Dinkic, that money you found without it now, just break that story with evidence, not by closing "Kurir". Now there's some devil in my head, why you're closing the Curry, who's attacking you that a billion dollars and a few million dollars have disappeared under your jurisdiction. Now I'm starting to doubt it too. Why would I doubt it if I wanted to trust every minister chosen by the National Assembly? The National Assembly doesn't play when it chooses ministers. I guess every MP knows how many dozens of voters are behind him and doesn't want to play with them when he raises his hand to a single minister. I can't believe there are MPs here in the hall who said, why am I voting for this Dinkic, but maybe there are MPs now who say, what I voted for this Dinkic. You boasted, Mr. Minister, that your table at the National Bank, and you know how you entered it and how long you were there, the false Emperor Scepan Mali, then started reforming the banking system. Do you have any idea how many people have knocked over because of your reform? Do you know how many banks have knocked and how many banks have spread out in the world for your reform? Now you're talking about insurance funds, I see that the Minister of Agriculture is going to share loans, because the banks are working with it; name the banks, let's see what these banks are called, let's see which state is domicile, let's see how much they've invested in the Serbian economy. The easiest thing was, Mr. Minister, when the euro stamp was changed, to bring foreign banks and give them full promotion on television. That's what you and the late Prime Minister of Serbia did, then. The people say -- the stable banks are finally coming, we don't trust them. Bank foreign banks bought half of Serbia's money from swapping stamps into the euro in foreign foreign currency savings. Those citizens are one or two percent on an annual level, and how many companies do they take a month when they give them that same money? So someone from Mars fell and just spins our money – we're getting poorer, our economy is getting poorer, and these banks are getting richer. Why do you hesitate to drop interest rates on loans? Until they get high. Then those sides will fall apart. They can only take that kind of money here. Just here in this Serbia, a stable, reformable one, you can't take a long-term housing loan, because you can pay off three or four months and you can get that house you built for a while, because the interest is such, interest rate, greenery, and you're boasting that we don't have any domestic banks anymore. The bankruptcy isn't over yet, Mr. Minister, that's not what you're going to say. There's no judge who sold his soul to make a decision to bankrupt the positive bank. It's nice to talk on television. You have unlimited opportunities. The media is representing you as a lifeguard. What's behind all this? Where are the dozens and hundreds of people who worked there? What about the National Savings? Who promoted the National Savings Bank? The safest bank, and couldn't one of those banks be the safest? What's the matter? The national savings bank started with no dinars, no desks, no phones, using the property of failed banks. Now it's a company of reputation, and when it's wrong, you iron it, it doesn't have to set deadlines, it can pay off as soon as someone shows up. What did you invest in the National Savings Bank? The first euro? You were a promoter of these banks. For what? When the Delta Bank was sold, you were the promoter of that sale. Why, Minister, are you the Governor of the National Bank, are you the Minister of Trade, are you the Minister of Export and Import, what are you? Where did you get the idea to promote the sale of a bank? Is it possible that this bank wasn't promoted in the country before, that the value was not raised? A man can doubt anything. This is about millions of euros. Pensioners are thinking about whether they will have a bigger or smaller pension for five euros when you are now implementing these reforms or 50 euros less pension, and this is about millions of euros -- your head doesn't hurt, you're still showing some little apartment you have, I believe you indeed. I believe you're poor, I just hear more and more capitalists in Serbia are offering to trade their property with yours. There's something I don't understand. Before, my Wolf offered. What Vukic has, what he has is that, but when he offers you people who turn millions of euros, I doubt - where did you get it? You never had any answers to those questions. It's all happening here in the financial sector. So, will someone stop you... It would be best if there was a new election. It would be good if the Prime Minister had the power to exercise control and appear on TV and say – what Jelasic and Dinkic are doing is completely clean and in accordance with the law. I'd take that. Or to say, they don't work in accordance with the law, and I would accept that. But to keep quiet on all these accusations that you're closing a bank held by the Israelis, I'll never be able to figure it out. It's like driving a car without a tire. What do you want to do, fight us with a lobby in the world? What are we going to live on later? Who's gonna give us your credits later? What do you charge from, Mr. Minister, the funds in the Republic budget? From production or from consumption? Who buys us thousands and thousands of acres of Vojvodina? Our friends from the immediate environment. Whose poor people are we now? With this power, with you not thinking at all about the state, but you would have another euro profit, which can be realised, but not for the state, with you making fun of factories that don't work, we have nothing left to wait for. That's why I'm asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to report here. I haven't been able to point out your mistakes. This doesn't mean anything in any way. Prime Minister, first row ministers, at least once a year file a report, here, at least a year and a half. You on the one hand, we on the other hand; you questions, we questions, you answers, you questions to us, we answer you. I think it's a normal parliamentary procedure, and not, first of all, the Minister, you've been avoiding us for a while in the Assembly, now you're coming back. But this is not the minister's relationship to the MPs. You've told us, if we didn't start picking on certain questions right now, this session would be over for you, because you're not coming anymore. Who knows when the Assembly will vote on these points. These first 15 minutes of yours were all you had to do with the Assembly. I'd like this assembly, when we have 45 points on the agenda, at least half the government has those 45 points on the agenda, not waiting for you to arrive. We're taking a 20-minute break to get our minister from the government. Why couldn't you come 15 minutes early and wait for the National Assembly? It's not a shame, it's not a humiliation that the minister is waiting for the National Assembly, it's a humiliation that the National Assembly is waiting for the minister. I hope we get a chance to talk about laws as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16452	I thank Mr. Nikolic. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16453	Ladies and gentlemen, why didn't I come 15 minutes earlier – because we signed a loan at the Development Fund for Kragujevac, Bor and Vranje; 800 million dinars have allocated this country to businessmen who want to make some production in Bora, Kragujevac and Vranje can get a loan for five years, with an interest rate of 0.5 percent a year, with a period beginning for a year, because we want your hometown, as you know, Bor and Vranje, no longer depend on the subsidies of this country, but that people can get the funds to build new factories. The municipalities gave free land. There were people who represent these cities, they'll give free infrastructure. Because it was scheduled to be signed in 11 hours and earlier, I may have come about 15 minutes later here to the Assembly. That's the first one. The second thing, as far as Currier is concerned, you're wondering why the Prime Minister won't give support to that tabloid? This is because I submitted a detailed report to the government on all the doubts that exist in the public; first of all, it was submitted by the Tax Administration, because it is responsible for controlling all taxpayers in Serbia. Namely, what's this about? I ask all of you MPs is there a selective law and selective justice, or is the law the same for all? If someone's doing tax evasion, is it because of the glorificity or the law? In fact, the control of the Tax Administration was carried out in all media outlets in Serbia. It started last year in all the media, literally in all, in Serbia -- in electronic, written media. As for electronic media, there are: "Politics", "Pink", B92, BK, and as for written media, there are "Blic", "Evening News", "Politics", "Glas", "Kurir". So, all the media is controlled. As for all media, the controls ended by February of this year at the latest. Why? Because accountants, or people who deal with accounting in these media, delivered all the necessary information under the tax law and our administration. The only one who made the obstruction was the fact that he owned these two lists. Otherwise, when tax control found that two years did not pay a single journalist's salary to any public voice, so not only official salaries, but taxes and contributions, then the control extended to 16 other companies owned by Radisav Rodic. Why? Because the actual total income from the sale of these sheets is not recorded at all in these sheets, but the gentleman has established some other, different companies, where he is moving money and then buying these money from companies in Serbia, which, if all is legal, is not prohibited, but has proved to have been avoided from paying hundreds of millions of taxpayers to the state. Over 100 million dinars are the total obligation "Kurira", i.e. "Glas", that is, these 16 companies, watched all together. So over 100 million dinars is an unpaid tax, of which direct tax evasion is the owner of these companies themselves (I don't see it, nor the Tax Administration, as the owner of the media, but as a man who is an entrepreneur) 35 million, direct tax evasion in his name. That's why criminal charges were filed. As for the unpaid tax, warnings were made back in March of the month. The procedure is such: when you receive a notice, you have an appropriate time limit to pay, and if you do not pay, there is a list of assets and forced payment. Six thousand companies in Serbia are currently under duress. However, the six thousand companies do not have their own media to be able to transfer the image and say – it is now political pressure, and this gentleman has the media. I ask the question - if you own the media, do you have the right not to pay taxes? If you, Mr. Nikolic, think you do, that's one thing, and I don't think you do. I am prepared to share a detailed report with all MPs. I'll do it for the next few days. The IRS has all this in detail, I don't know the data by heart. We will share with all MPs during this session all of this concerning the control of these 18 companies. Because under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, we shouldn't talk about it publicly, but since the owner of this list demanded that the facts be revealed, so I asked for it, then we have the right to share it. Otherwise, let's say what kind of moral man this is... I'm talking about the owner of these media, not the press. People who do their job in journalism should be separated from people who earn money, or from owners. He's the only media owner who's been punished in the past for that infamous Information Act that's never actually been charged with. How it happened and how that punishment wasn't charged, I don't know, but it happened. So he wasn't charged, unlike today; unlike some others, he wasn't charged at that time. Even that equipment that was seized from him, and around which there was a big pomp in public, was completely returned to him, except for an old computer, which he didn't want to receive himself, far away before I became Minister of Finance. That's the data from our archive. The previous government has made a decision that all mediamen who have been punished under the old Information Act can demand that that money be returned to them. They had the right to apply to the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance. They all submitted, including Rodic, whom that money had never actually been taken off, so Rodic was returned with money that had never been taken from him. It happened during the previous government. It's just one indication of how moral it is. As far as writing newspapers are concerned, there's free to write whatever it wants about me and the government, of course, if there are basic elements of truth in that. As you, Mr. Nikolic, have announced lawsuits against some who write about you something that you don't think is true, I filed that lawsuit three weeks ago, but I didn't want to make any big noise about it in public, because, in fact, I answered all those questions as soon as they were asked. So, they purposely released a feltton during the annual assembly of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It was not any new feltton, but a recycled material that, in its own time, when we discovered the Janjusevic-Kolesar affair, was prepared by the then police minister with his associates. In fact, they made different lies, and some used it in the 2003 campaign for parliamentary elections. This was collected and released now during the annual assembly of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. But first I answered all of that, they didn't even want to announce the day after I wrote it, but they waited for three days to pass and come Monday and only then published it. I've held a press conference and I've got journalists from the ′′Kurira′′ coming to this same press conference. So I answered not only each of these points, but, since they really violated both my reputation and the reputation of the Ministry of Finance, I answered the complaint. I didn't make any public noise about it. So, criminal charges have been filed. A proper procedure has already been initiated, and I have also filed a private claim for 10 million dinar damages. As far as I'm concerned, I did exactly what you advised me to do. When it comes to tax collection, each must, proportionate to its strength, pay the tax and make no difference. ′′Policy′′ was the only one who had a huge debt that couldn't pay, but they made a decision to convert it into the capital of the state. It's one of the legitimate ways to settle obligations. The other media who had the debt paid in the control process. So there's not one that's left to the state of any debt. The question arises, if we want company equality in the real sector, why not be media equal as well. If someone pays taxes and that's why they have a higher price on the list, why the others and how others don't pay. I don't blame the press here at all. Why the press felt called, I really don't know. Journalists here were not targeted at any control, except they were asked whether their salaries were paid regularly on account and whether they were being paid a contribution. In the course of control, the owner himself paid a certain amount of tax liability, including some contributions, so thanks to this control many journalists have finally been paid for pension insurance, for health insurance, and they have not been paid before. Control's over in these companies. Now solutions are being issued. No more controls, all determined what was to be determined. Three criminal charges have been filed, payment requests have been made. If paid normally, there is no fear that any property will be taken. I'm not talking about the property of ′′Kurira's. ′′Kurir′′ Almost doesn't have any property, but I'm talking about the property of the firm ′′Ronako′′ from Opova, etc. In fact, the owner transferred all the property to some other company. Ask, say, what happened to the companies that this gentleman bought; em didn't pay any price, no matter what he got at the auction, ask if the workers got paid at all the time. There's one firm in Varvarin, there's another firm in other Serbian cities, there's 18 companies where the entire circle was practically closed without money. If we want to support such businessmen just because they write nice about someone, then that's the thing we need to make it clear. They're all the same to me, really. We don't control journalists, the IRS has a warrant to control the financial business of the media. Indeed, if everyone else respects the law, why should these media not respect the law. There's no sentimentality or any kind of press. When Mauricio Masari found out what was going on, they raised their hands in the OSCE that anything was under consideration and they realized it was a financial matter, and it had nothing to do with the freedom of the press. As far as other matters are concerned, you were talking about court decisions, the liquidation of banks that have been annulled. You forgot to say one fact: I was not the only one who made decisions as governor, or we were making new decisions on liquidation after the court's decision to annul the decision to liquidate Astra Banka, Capital Banka. It's mostly those two banks that were involved. She did so during a short stay at the National Bank of Serbia and Kori Udovicki. So the three men who had the responsibility to operate the central bank again made the same solutions. You'll see, whoever the governor is elected tomorrow, one day he'll have to make the same decision, because it's legal. I urge you to read again the Performance Study, which, unfortunately, says the worst situation in our society and economy, is right in the Trade Court in Belgrade. Why the president of that court is immeasurable, I have no answer to that question. I know a lot of things here depend on institutions that aren't in government jurisdiction, which is good, but I mean not even the Assembly. Now we have a situation where when you say something wrong about a court and a verdict, they automatically attack you to violate the independence of the judiciary. On the other hand, all the citizens of the naked eye see that something in that fat is wrong, and the government has a mechanism to change these things, because, I don't know, the High Council of Justice, personally bigger, has these institutions a lot, which are well-made; the problem is that the people who are there are obviously, part of it, I won't be general, some people obviously don't deserve neither by knowledge nor by moral traits to be there. Then we have disastrous decisions that we're all surprised at, depending on whose jurisdiction they're from. As for ′′Dunava′′, ′′Dunav′′ is controlled by the National Bank of Serbia's supervisory vision, and I would also like to say to Mr. Vlahovic that the government plan of the Republic of Serbia is that the company ′′Dunav′′ is prepared for privatisation through an initial takeover offer, means in the same way as you said. Namely, there are banks and insurance companies where privatisation is better done by looking for a strategic partner. It was the majority of banks in Serbia, except for the Commercial Bank, which we considered better to remain domestic and to be privatised on the domestic market through an initial takeover bid over the next three years. Similarly, we think of the ′′Dunavâ. In that sense, we share the same opinion. As far as ′′Dunava′′ is concerned, one diagnostic analysis is now being concluded by the National Bank of Serbia. After that, we'll see how best to proceed with the privatisation process of the company. The initial idea is this, therefore, through the IPO, the initial bid to take over the Belgrade Stock Exchange, in small segments, so that the wider circle of shareholders, i.e. citizens can buy any ′′Dunava′′ any Commercial Bank. As for the reform of the banking system, of course you do not have to listen to what I say, nor what Jelasic says, nor what Prime Minister Kostunica says, nor any of us from the government. Read the reports of all relevant institutions. Of all the countries in the transition to reform of the banking system, it was best performed in Serbia. First, the shortest was, at least it cost, not a single cent of Serbian citizens from the budget was given to the recovery of banks that failed. I wish those banks you were talking about were better. They would never have to take such unpopular measures as their liquidation. But eight billion marks, or four billion euros, remain the captured old foreign currency savings. The losses were huge; they simply could not be rehabilitated because their losses accounted for 30% of the country's total social product. That was completely irrational. Today we have a far better banking system and I will give you one piece of information that you may not have known: as of last year, about two billion euros of foreign loans have entered Serbia. From that, the state raised only 300 million. So of the two billion euros that have entered Serbia, the state itself, the government, through guarantees and various arrangements, only 300m euros is in debt. A billion and 700m euros were the responsibility of the Serbian economy and citizens. This means that most of these foreign banks that are operating in our country have brought foreign capital into the country. That's why we even had a problem with the IMF because it's considered to be excessive credit activity and that it raises our imports in conditions of insufficient domestic supply. Therefore, the central bank was forced to take some restrictive measures. The fact is that foreign banks, which were so attacked, brought into Serbia a billion and 700m euros last year and placed them on our citizens and businesses. It's true that interest rates are still high. I couldn't agree more. No one who's a serious economist can deny it. The fact is, they're falling lightly. For example, the interest rate on the records of the Republic of Serbia's vault was 22% a year at the beginning of this year. How is that possible? By making a surplus in the budget and not issuing those records anymore, we are slowly paying back our public debt. So Serbia began to deprive itself. The interest naturally fell to 15.5 and surely that money would have to be placed somewhere. For example, at one auction, three billion banks offer to buy state records, we sell 800 million, and two billion and two hundred million must be placed elsewhere, which are citizens and businesses and will have interest rates to fall safely. As for housing loans, up to a year ago there has been no housing loans since 1990. Thanks to the establishment of the National Credit Insurance Corporation, some banks have set out to approve housing loans, though, still under unfavourable conditions. The interest rate was at the beginning of 12%, now it's 8.9 or 8.7%, depending on the bank to the bank, which is high and we're not satisfied with it. As a result, we will prepare a programme for the rebalancing of this budget where more percentage points will drop interest for all those up to 45 years of age who are seeking housing credit starting in September of this year. We are just finishing the budgets, and these budgets say the interest rate could be about 4% a year for this group of citizens. It's really going to be a revolution for housing credits with us. We're going to single out a billion dinars from the budget only in rebalancing. Why did I attend the promotion of a deal between Delta Bank and the Bank of Intects? Because I attend such big promotions, all of which have an impact on the inflow of foreign direct investment in the country. I wasn't present for a promotion of Credit Agricol and the takeover of Meridian Bank, because at the same time I had a meeting of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. There was Tadic. I really don't think it's a shame to make a good arrangement for the country to go and promote it. After all, the function of ministers, among other things, is to promote those who have business success. Only through transactions in the banking system will Serbia have a billion dollars of foreign direct investment this year, and total foreign direct investment will amount to about two billion dollars. One more time to deny you. You said different capitalists are increasingly offering to swap their assets for my 73 square-square apartment in New Belgrade. I haven't heard one offer, except from two people, from Mr. Vukic, as you said yourself, and from Dusan Mihajlovic. I don't think Dracula offered that. I don't think of the wolf as a capitalist. As for Dusan Mihajlovic, whether or not he is a capitalist, it could possibly be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16454	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16455	I will, in a very short time, remind Mr. Secretary of something I have left interesting, which I would like to introduce you to. Don't promise us loans for residential construction. I watched you in 2000, when you said: next year cheap car loans, and for two years cheap house and apartment loans. You were waving keys. Since five years have passed, you've been in power one way or another, part of G17 plus, so I don't have too much confidence that with 8.7% - 8.8% will fall to acceptable 4%, at least at the time you're in power, and then we'll see. If you're already so interested in good sales, it's probably because there was revenue for the budget, so I'm interested in how much the Serbian budget of one such good sale, what is the capital profit tax? Here, my brother Doulet, in Baitchetin, came a vet, hit a blue earring on a lamb, and when he sells, he'll have to pay some taxes to the state for that one lamb. I'm interested in how much this bank has brought direct revenue to the budget and what you've done with those revenues. Next, what you're accusing the owner of the list "Kurr", that's what the "Mobtel" has been doing to you for years. I'm interested in what the situation is with spilling state capital on Bogoljub Karic's companies. It's even done in advance, not every day, but in advance. Next, why don't you say the Slovenians saved their insurance companies and banks? Look, a Slovenian insurance company buys insurance companies with us. If that's wrong, what did they keep theirs? Furthermore, how many financial controls have you done in NGOs? What are their incomes, and can you confiscate their property? Let's just say, why did you stay in B92 for only two hours, give them the building, have the poor to live on and where to make them miss? You really hit me heartily. I'm from Kragujevac. Here, three cities will get 800 million dinars. Mr. Minister, seven days ago, some rich guy in New Sad gave 850 million dinars for a thousand acres of bare land. Don't say that 800 million dinars is the money the state will restore to Vranje, Bor and Kragujevac. I'd prefer it if you'd finally found out if there's anything to do or not. If there's money like selling insurance companies, then 200 euros a year... Here, let me remind you of the Aryan and Prince Milos. There was a lot of money there. Ask if one factory, service, workshop was opened, but only one company from Topola sold 280 newly imported used cars, so a stove, refrigerator, TV, wardrobe was sold. Is that where you made your income, you only charge the budget, but in Arangelovac, who didn't work until that payment doesn't work day or day. If you think you can settle that money and get people to retire and then reduce your pensions by 40%, then what are you doing and what are you doing helping? Don't talk about the information law as an infamous law. If that law were in force now, there wouldn't be a story about you, if it weren't true, there wouldn't be a story about me, which isn't true, I know it for sure. There would be mechanisms to protect a man who is innocent, clean and honest. When we said that many companies didn't pay the fines under that law, you said that they paid everything, you invited them from this pay phone to pay the bill, and now you're saying that a lot of people didn't pay. They were not even charged with these fines, but they served you in the fight against the authorities of the day. That would be all I thought, only now I find out that criminal charges have been dropped against the owner of the list of "Kurr", that the IRS, whether it was from Novi Sad, who imposed some punishment, has today annulled its punishment solution. Minister, please be as current as I am. I only have this little cell phone, you don't know what you've got. Find out what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16456	The replica was answered by Mr. Wolfiche.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16457	Ladies and gentlemen of the press, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens, Mr Dinkic is right about one thing. I don't know about Radisav Rodic exactly, I have a specific list of what it was and how it was, but from the solutions in which certain sentences were written, 23% were not paid, 22.8% were the total of the penalties charged. When we told you this, when we pointed out that it wasn't exactly like that and there were many empty stories, you said we were lying, that we weren't telling the truth, etc., so it was a false story about someone's bed, which didn't come to, because a certain Tadic, who was then a member of the DS, was working in some newspaper, so he begged, some of his people called and asked that his car was not taken, because his wife was pregnant. No one took anything from him or anyone else, that way. There were many lies and inventions we didn't even want to answer. Now let me tell you something: there was a law for all of this, not a decision by the executive authorities. Today, we have a decision by the executive authority, directly your decision, Minister Dinkic, that you are counting on an insubordinate or insubordination list to the end. You, after a duel with Dracula on Pink TV, told at least three people that you'd arrest the people of Kurir. You said I had three witnesses for it. If I lied to you, since you can't go after me for what I said from the assembly pay phone, I'll say it somewhere else, so you can sue me, so I don't have to be prosecuted for what I said from the assembly pay phone, and I'll bring you witnesses. You also told St. Marjanovic, my friend and your friend there on February 28th that you would destroy "Kurir". It's a friend of both of us. I've experienced it so much, I don't know what's changed in any way. We've known each other a long time, and I don't know what it means, but you said you were literally going to exterminate them. I don't mean physically, I wouldn't go that far, I'd talk about their list first. Now the question is, after two hours of tax controls were held in B92, how they were able to investigate everything in two hours. Maybe it's all clear, maybe it's not, I don't know, and I don't want to be suspicious. How do you stay for about two months? Let me ask you, how much do some more powerful newspaper editors report their salary? You want me to tell you? Here, one of the most powerful papers, in which you have great support, his editor-in-chief writes that he receives a salary of 30,000, and the salary, ladies and gentlemen, is over 400,000, and the tax is paid at 30,000. Mr. Dinkic knows I'm telling the truth. And you don't know who he is? It's a lot of newspapers like that, so look at them. 30.000,00, and 400,000,00 is his real salary, and you found them in "Kuru" to receive salaries 40.000,00, 50,000,00 dinars and on those 40.000,00, 50,000,00 dinars pay taxes both St. Marjanović and Vučićevic and many others. That's the point, because it's not true, and because tomorrow, if someone else wanted to write, you'd find some tax administration or some tax catch, where you'd condemn someone else. You count on it not being an election now – before the election campaign starts, I want to do the job, shut it down, close it down. It's the essence of the whole story and it's absolutely personal and personal. Maybe that shows you're very serious. Perhaps after some period of time you will rest, like today with Bogoljub Karic. That's your thing, you can do whatever you want. It's all about political arrangements, but it's not about the law. I just want to tell you that you are not acting in accordance with the law, in accordance with the general legal acts, but in accordance with personal will. So, this personal will, the absolute personal will or will of the executive authorities is what represents a key problem today in Serbia and it leads to unprecedented arbitration in the behaviour of the executive authorities, who can behave as they please, to do what they want. And yet you have not answered Mr. Nikolic as they came to the building as large as these with B92. To say they are, because Serbian citizens don't know either. They'd better find out, and you know why? You did not participate in the hai, and I ask you, how could you not ask all of this? And how could one, with the support of some or the silent consent of some of the authorities? (President: Mr. Wolf, you've been over two minutes. I'm finishing up, Mr. Angelkovic... He can accuse innocent people of being murderers. How come that didn't come across your worst conviction? How can you not say that? How come it didn't occur to you, not if it was, but I'm asking and who was killed by someone and when? Do you know the name, does anyone? Nobody knows. They're able to do that and keep quiet about it, but where your personal interest is... And they ask Jelasic if he wants to sell the villa he bought for 300 grand, he won't sell it for a million. What does that mean? He won't offer him a million and a half, he won't sell it. One way or another? And how did he get that? Good business, nothing. I'm not a capitalist, I'm staying with what I've offered, not wanting to accuse you and what it is and what it isn't, I've just told you quite honestly, because this is what the citizens of Serbia see, that it's your personal decision and in every place you're saying it's your personal account and that you'll finish it by the end. It is a key problem and it is better not to destroy it, because taxes can be charged if they have a circulation of 200,000, 250,000 or 300,000, however, that tax can be charged on it and that the state makes huge money. If that goes out, a lot of pensioners will lose their pensions or a lot of factories without money or a lot of public enterprises, which you have to groom, like RTS etc. Think economically, not economically, because you feel personally affected, so let's destroy them as soon as possible. Simply, Jelasic's villa, I don't even know this villa, or that villa on Dedinj, or anyone else can remain a secret to the citizens of Serbia, because the truth simply cannot be hidden. And to succeed in shutting down the newspaper, I am convinced that tomorrow the same ones will appear who will write it in the same way, because Serbian citizens are primarily hungry for justice, truth and, ultimately, rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16458	Resumption at 3:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16459	Please, the session of the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance is under way, but let us call on fellow Members of Parliament. In exactly 30 seconds, we'll continue our work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16460	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, we expect the arrival of the finance minister with his associates, since it seems to me that the Finance Committee is still going on. Today, on the agenda, we have a united debate on several financial laws. It is about draft laws or amendments to laws concerning, above all, deposit insurance, agency, insurance, bankruptcy and liquidation. In the morning, we listed all these laws and I will not list them all, but surely all of these proposed laws are a set of laws whose justification lies in the harmonisation and unification of the rules with the international community, or, as each law says, by order, or under the European Union's directive for normal functioning of the banking system and financial institutions in the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to adopt these laws. I will say a few words about every law, but what the practice has shown, and as far as the banking system is concerned in the past few years, will certainly bring even more attention to not only the MPs and the public, but also the finance minister. The draft deposit insurance law, as it is said, is a law that allows and provides for the guaranteed amount that is determined in the mandatory amount of up to 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent per depositor in the bank on the day of the adoption of a decision by the competent trade court on the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, a major shift in the existing amount of 5,000 dinars since 1994. I note that this is progress compared to 1994, but the ratio of stamps and dinars at the time was such that the amount of 5,000 dinars represented exactly 3,000 marks. Therefore, there is no fact that the then finance minister did not take care of it. What is particularly characteristic for us and what the afternoon debate has shown is that the law on the deposit insurance agency will lead to a major controversy over whether the deposit insurance agency can also carry out its occasional affairs, or whether the agency is also able to do so according to certain insurance companies. The morning debate has shown that the agency organises and implements the process of privatising social capital and the process of selling state capital to insurance companies in accordance with the law governing insurance. The SPS parliamentary group submitted several amendments concerning, above all, the legality and existence of a legal basis to take over certain information concerning the Privatisation Act in the deposit insurance law. In Article 4. The Privatisation Act provides for which entities are responsible for carrying out the privatisation process, and one of the entities in the privatisation process is the Privatisation Agency. Article 5 of this Act stipulates that the Privatisation Agency is a legal person who promotes, initiates, conducts and controls the privatisation procedure in accordance with the law, with the possibility that other laws should regulate the position, rights, duties and other issues of importance for the Agency's work. Under the law-based position, rights and duties of the agency, it is undisputed that the agency is authorised to carry out, controls the privatisation process compared to all privatisation entities, without exceptions. In view of the fact that the proposed legal text is authorised by the deposit insurance agency and to implement the privatisation of capital in insurance companies, two bodies with the same powers are educated, contrary to the basic principles of the position of legal entities and legal uncertainty arises in the area of jurisdiction for the implementation of the privatisation process. In particular, when determining the authorisation of a legal entity, the circle of transactions carried out must be unequivocally defined; the same type of transactions cannot be placed in the jurisdiction of another entity. The proposed definition would mean that sometimes the same tasks are done by the MUP and by another body. I mentioned earlier in the introduction of my presentation that the climate from the afternoon part of the session, i.e. from discussions and the debate that the Insurance Act will certainly cause the most controversy, given that it is in the Law on Insurance of Article 243, relating to the privatisation of insurance companies, as well as to the deposit insurance agency. In Article 5. The privatisation law stipulates that the Privatisation Agency is a legal person who promotes, initiates, implements and controls the privatisation process. In Article 16. The Privatisation Act provides for the privatisation process to be initiated by the initiative of the competent authority, the privatisation entity, and the initiative is an act of the privatisation entity expressing the intention to implement the privatisation. In the view of the third paragraph, it is prescribed that the privatisation initiative is provided to the organisations of the trade unions operating in the privatisation entity, and the employees are informed in a manner established by the general act of the privatisation entity. The position of the 4th member provides for the privatisation initiative to be delivered to the Privatisation Agency. As a rule, the proposed solution provides for the privatisation process in insurance companies to be initiated by the Ministry and the Deposit Insurance Agency to organise and implement the privatisation process of the insurance companies. Therefore, the proposed solution to Article 243(3) and (4) significantly damages Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines property and work as the basis for governance and participation in the decision-making process. According to this solution, the State would assume rights which, on the one hand, have insurance companies, and on the other hand, rights belonging to shareholders and would receive powers that do not belong to them. In fact, the state can only sell its shares, but it can't sell other people's property. Also, in Article 4. The Privatisation Act provides for which entities are responsible for carrying out the privatisation process, and one of the entities in the privatisation process is the Privatisation Agency. Article 5 of this Act stipulates that the Privatisation Agency is a legal person who promotes, initiates, conducts and controls the privatisation process, in accordance with the law, with the possibility of the other law to regulate the position, rights, duties and other issues of importance for the Agency's work. In the law-based position of the law and the duties of the Agency, it is undisputed that the Agency is authorised to carry out and control the privatisation procedure in relation to all privatisation entities, without exceptions. A session of the Legislative Committee is scheduled for tomorrow and I believe that members of the Legislative Committee and how they will bear in mind the adoption of such positive legal rules, i.e. the adoption of these laws, and the fact that the laws and the new Rules of Procedure allow us to discuss certain laws which have not passed a certain procedure. The following two laws are the draft laws on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations. Their role is in line with the existing laws, but there is one fact, which is that the deposit insurance agency, which, on a proposal from the National Bank, obliges the court, on a proposal from the National Bank, to withdraw the authorisation of certain banks, within one day or the first day following the receipt of this solution, to withdraw the permit of a particular bank. I wonder if it's the National Bank that's opening up bankruptcy or withdrawing a license, while the courts are only formally-lawful to open up bankruptcy, or to liquidate banks? It is certain that one of the more important laws on the agenda today, which will certainly contribute to certain things in financing, above all, the exports of the Republic of Serbia will be subject to stronger and stronger principles, the law on the insurance and financing of exports of the Republic of Serbia. The minister introduced us to the bill and promised that the agency would be able to finance and prepare the export of domestic legal entities, that interest on these costs would be between three and four percent. It's interest on the annual level. These are certainly the least interest rates that can be achieved today in the money market in the Republic of Serbia. What is certainly insinuating is whether the relationship between the Development Fund and the newly formed insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia will be clearly defined. I underline, it is a very important law that gives, above all, economic and financial security, and then legal certainty to entities that are exporters in the Republic of Serbia. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Kekic, will you use another 10 minutes? Yes. The draft law amending the Guarantee Fund Act has not given us an answer to one question. The minister explained that the guarantee potential is increasing well compared to the Fund's capital by two and a half times, and that's a pretty good solution. However, we did not get an answer which was the four banks that pulled the most, i.e. seeking the services of this guarantee fund, so I hope we will get that explanation as well. The fact is that the Financial Lising Act, which is the last law today in the proposed agenda, can easily come into the situation, given that we are in charge of the state, we are in charge of economic operators, that through the lising we will assign and how the individual, because certain companies already force the purchase of the lease, by allowing the property to stay with them and then very easily repay their things in case no amount of money is paid, which is provided by the contract, from the state to return their things easily. In the introduction, I said that on the basis of my experiences and experiences of my friends, I would explain how the banking system works on the principle of what has been done in the last few years. I had a chance to talk to you about the fire bank last year, which has gone bankrupt since 2001. Not even today, this bankruptcy procedure, three and a half years later, isn't over. The property is, not only of rights and obligations but of movable and immovable property, sold to the Commercial Bank for 160 million, which is about 4,000 square meters in various locations, given that Pogorevačka Banka had a network in all eight municipalities of Braničevsky County, and then we came into the situation that the business space in the city centre was sold by the Commercial Bank by auctioning for 3,000 euros. Deposits that were then in the Pogorevačka Banka were paid in succession for two years by individual committees. I would like to point out immediately that "Investbank" and other banks in Belgrade, probably because of social peace, have been paid in the next few days. The legal consequence of all this, the financial consequences, financial flows showed that after that 18 banks arrived in Pozarevc and Braničevski County, if there were three or four banks, quickly in the first year or two days, and now there are 21 banks in total, with various offers regarding financial and banking management. The newest bank that has come is the Meridian Bank, which is already out of the blue promising to allow companies to minus, I don't know how much that is in accordance with the law, just like it was made possible by natural persons, up to a million dinars. It would be all right if the effective interest rate was below 5% or 6%, then I'm sure the companies would show it. I am sorry that Deputy Minister – Vesna, then Arsic, now Djidic, is not present, because in 1996 "Delta Banka" with six million marks was financed by the Požarvac-Kostolac district. We were a city next to Belgrade and Smederev, which drew heat from Kostolac, but the entire economy at the time held certain deposits for the Delta Bank service, which was then healthy and strong, with strong investment potential. Three months ago, toplification began to develop a secondary network and for 80 million loans, as long as it needed to start with some more ambitious plans, Delta Bank offered a 9% interest rate. We succeeded in the tender that was announced, and only two banks came forward, although it was 21, that interest to cut to 7.5%. It's not the effective interest rate, it's the interest rate to which the credit costs and everything else are added. I am speaking in favour of the fact that if the Ministry of Finance already promises lower interest rates, and this is due to the supply and demand of the market and happens, the Ministry of Finance must make sure that local deposits are held, given that local vaults are formed in local areas, which pay interest on sight, because the total deposit in the Delta Bank, by the Assembly of the municipality or local communities of certain companies, which are public enterprises, is about 90 million. So ′′Delta Bank′′ only re-places these existing funds. As for housing loans, the minister said that the current interest rate of 8.92 – 8.90% at the level of the Republic of Serbia can be found in certain banks, but it is the fact that the mortgage must be secured, that the mortgage should be paid, that the apartment or the immobility on which the mortgage is placed, and we are in a situation that effective costs are much higher. The fact is, it's long-term loans and interest on interest. I'll give you an example: for 35,000 euros, the amount of credit it costs, 72 thousand euros will be returned in 20 years. There's certainly no interest of 8.92 or 8.90 percent, as said. What I would like to mention, I am sorry that the minister is not here, he spoke earlier about the fact that the Commercial Bank will remain in state property, i.e. in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, and the Vojvodjanska Banka, which, for years, I must say, was primarily oriented towards the Vojvodina area, has been following this economy for years, has come into a situation, apparently, to be sold. Do not ask how many countries are mortgaged by certain companies and companies. If he buys a Vojvodjanska banka, and it's likely to be Hungarians, we'll be in a position for the Hungarians to own the country. It's the same case with the DDOR. I don't mean to mention it on purpose, since we're going to talk about the amendments, "Dunav Insurance′′, but in the SPS parliamentary group we're preparing a law that will require that the social property of individual businesses be transferred to state property and that we have maximum control to enable us to participate in this. What's also important, if I may say so, from the business policy of certain banks, is that a very small number of banks came and bought their own space. They managed to do it in certain ways, which is legal, but they don't have their own property, they don't have the property to guarantee the individual area the next day that, like Braničevsky County has 40,000 people abroad, extremely strong and attractive financial potential, with some easier programmes would certainly allow these banks to reach their real estates. I think their investment money, like banks, if it comes to Braničevsky County, will certainly pay off multiple. I don't want to be too long, but we've submitted amendments to the Insurance Act. I'm sorry that the minister and his associates aren't here to hear some concrete things about what's going on in the financial section, but, my God, there's going to be an opportunity to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16461	Thank you, Mr. Kekic. The word has the mandated representative of the DSS MP Slavoljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16462	Mr. President, until a moment ago we had a Finance Committee, we spoke to the Minister about these laws. What I can pass on, at least to those members of the financial committee who were not present, is that all parliamentary groups have accepted what the Minister and the Republic Government have proposed. The reason why the DSS also accepts the proposed laws is that once again we try to introduce order and financial discipline in this country, which will allow financial capital, money as the most wanted goods on our market to be at least a little cheaper than this period that is burdened with high interest rates, and above all for the reasons of high legal uncertainty which is particularly reflected in the financial market, and the end resulting in high interest rates. In that sense, it is precisely the first proposed law to be observed. It is about the draft deposit insurance law, where we are just trying to put order in the financial market, in the banking system, and that will certainly contribute to the overall stability of the state and society, and above all to the financial sector. I'll just remind you what the main message of these legal solutions is. Namely, the law proposes a newspaper related to a secured deposit, which increases by 5,000 dinars and establishes a mandatory amount of up to three thousand euros, of course in dinar equivalent, per depositor in the bank on the day of the adoption of a decision by the competent trade court on the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against the bank. This achieves an appropriate degree of protection of natural persons' deposits in conditions of functioning of our banking system, as well as the economic development of the country as a whole. The concept of a new deposit insurance system is based on real conditions of functioning of the country's banking system and on potential risks identified by it. It is in line with the country's degree and further economic development, monetary and fiscal policy. That is the basic message of these legal solutions, and that is why we in the DSS have not had any amendments, and in general we support this legislative proposal. As regards the second legislative proposal, which concerns the establishment of a deposit insurance agency, the first law requires the establishment of an agency. In this legislative proposal, we support solutions. It's about these classic solutions that we had when we formed some other agencies. Given the reasoning of the regulations governing the Agency's activities, it would be necessary to pass a new law on the Agency, which would clearly regulate its position in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance Affairs. That is exactly the point of this legislative proposal when it comes to the deposit insurance agency. In this law, we, in the National Assembly of Intelligence, pass it on to the Republic Government, i.e. The resolution ministry, which is obliged to form an agency, is obliged to appoint a board of directors by the rules already explained by the minister to MPs and the public. That's why we also support this law. As regards the third draft law, it is about amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. The request of the legislator is that these changes to the Insurance Act allow the privatisation of two large insurance houses, or a good part of the law to apply, with the fact that, like my predecessors, I will show on behalf of the DSS several complaints that we have, translated into several amendments, which MPs will hear when we discuss this law in particular. Namely, in Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, has been prescribed that property and the work of governance and participation are in the decision-making process. That member of the Constitution guarantees employees the right to operate in a social enterprise, in the management of other types of enterprises, other organisations in which they work. The proposed law solution states that the privatisation process can sell property or part of an insurance company's assets in a manner and subject to the conditions prescribed by this law. Therefore, the proposed solution to Article 243(2) injures Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been defined as the property and work of the foundation of governance and participation in the decision-making process. The State would, according to this solution, take over rights which, on the one hand, have insurance companies, and on the other hand, rights belonging to shareholders and would receive powers that do not belong to them. In fact, the state can only sell its shares, but it cannot sell other people's property. This solution does not exist in the Privatisation Act. In fact, the Privatisation Act does not stipulate that part of the capital can be sold and that the funds from the sale are directed towards the budget of the Republic of Serbia. By directing funds from the sale of share of capital in insurance companies into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it would significantly reduce the value of the remaining share of capital in insurance companies. It is one of our principles when it comes to Mr Dinkic's proposal and his ministry. I say, you will also see in several amendments how we are discussing this topic and I hope that this will be heard by the Minister, both the Republic Government and MPs when we declare these solutions. Also, our proposal is to add Article 243g to the new one. It stipulates that employees have the right to compensation from the purchase price achieved by the sale of capital from the previous member, referred to in Article 243a of Article 1 of the proposed legal text. Namely, according to Article 42. The Privatisation Act stipulates that part of the capital is transferred to the employees in shares, without compensation, for each full year of employment in the privatisation entity and up to 35 years of employment. The proposed legal text stipulates that employees have the right to compensation of about 200 euros in dinar equivalent for each full year of employment in a privatisation entity. The concept of compensation implies that workers do not receive actions to which workers are authorised in other enterprises. They therefore do not have actions that they can sell under market conditions or can retain and participate in company dividends and thus obtain certain management rights. The proposed solution is contrary to Article 10. The law on the market of securities of value and other financial instruments. The shares are a type of paper of values that are referred to as part of the sharer's share capital. In Article 10. The Securities Market Act and other financial instruments are prescribed that securities and securities may be obtained and provided by domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, and if a solution is adopted to provide compensation to employees in the privatisation process of companies, it is clear that they will not exercise the rights provided for employees in other privatisation entities, who remain the owners of actions in the privatisation process. We've already talked about this with the minister. He took some of our remarks into account. I hope that during the debate on amendments, we will have enough understanding from both the Ministry and the Republic Government, and in particular from MPs, in order to improve this proposal for a law which, in the light of its fundamental nature, is satisfying what the DSS Group is up to. I'm saying, with little corrections. I hope that we will improve this part, and in particular prevent a kind of dissatisfaction already occurring among the employees of the insurance companies. In a set of financial laws we still have... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Matić, will you use the other 10 minutes? Here you go. Yeah, I'll be done soon. As for the draft laws on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, and we have already heard of it from the minister, the justification of the new legal legislation in the field of bankruptcy and liquidation lies in the need to strengthen the stability of the banking system, but also the insurance system that is also gaining growing social importance, thus increasing the confidence of citizens in the system's institutions, in banking institutions. It's in the function of what we all stand for. Greater stability, of course, will also mean cheaper financial capital on the market. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, I think we have heard enough from the Minister and then from the debaters. They repeat the words of their predecessor, the discipline in the financial sector, the banking sector is certainly necessary, but I must mention what happened in the fire area in the beginning of the transition in mid-2001, which is that one big, serious development bank died. Even to this day, the public, and especially the very interested citizens of Braničevsky County, who have spent years investing in the Pojarevačka Banka, is not clear why this was done. In particular, it is not clear to us (and it is a pity that Mr. Minister is not here) that we cannot locate the culprits for bankruptcy and liquidation of the Firefighter Bank, when the whole of the Fireman, the criminal police of the Fireman know very well who is, and if not all 12 or 13 million marks, brought out from the Fireman's Bank, and who, proven in one police report, carried out at least a million and a half marks. It is a group of Bogoljub Karic, a financial monster who then came to Pozharovac in an election campaign and showed locks at doors and gates and MIP and other companies, and in no word showed to the Firefighters that at least he felt ashamed and ashamed of having destroyed the good part of the Firefighter Bank. That's why I think it is very necessary for all MPs to hear, and the executive authority to hear, and here are the co-workers of the minister, that there is some evidence of how the BK Corporation sucked foreign exchanges from the Firefighter Bank. I use this opportunity once again to address the public and those journalists who are looking for affairs every day in their printed or electronic media – I think they need to deal with a little research barbecue and try a real one, not a fake affair to open up and maybe help the authorities solve it in a fair way. I'm not talking about the other laws in principle. I repeat, the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for proposed legislative projects, and with several amendments, I think they can be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16463	Thank you, Mr. Matice. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SPS, G17 plus, DS, DSS and SRS. The first speaker is MP Jovan Todorovic, and let MP Zivadin Lekic be prepared. First it goes for, then it goes against. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. At the same time, as it approaches 1600 hours, I am obliged to inform you that we will be working at the session. So today's session will be over at 1800 hours. Tomorrow will be done by the end of the principle debate on the united points of the counter-guarantee, then will be done on Wednesday and Thursday, so that the committees can continue their intensive work in detail on Friday. Excuse me one more time, Mr. Todorovic. Please, tomorrow the Assembly is ambushing and working, like all citizens. Sadly, Vidovdan is a working day, and this congregation does not decide. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16464	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, has already been said a lot, but first of all, I would like to express the satisfaction of discussing today's law on the establishment of an insurance and export financing agency. And in this place, I want to ask the question – why have we waited until now to establish such an institution by law, when, especially in the past five years, it has proved necessary to have an institution to encourage, protect and finance exports in the economic life of our Republic? And much more developed countries than Serbia, especially countries in transition, have long decided to establish, by law, such an institution that will, above all, help develop an export-oriented economy. So that's the first question, especially what is basically one finding: that in 2000, and especially in 2001 and 2002, literally, we opened our market for goods of import origin. In recent times, we have had imports of everything and everything, the most widely used goods, the least equipment and technology and re-compromisations that would be used in production chains, which is also export-oriented. On the other hand, we have a permanent decline or stagnation of exports, with the exception of the first half of 2005. I remind you that in 2000, we had about a billion and five hundred million dollars in exports, that in the coming years, in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, we had some export growth, and it reached about three and a half billion dollars in late 2004, but that could not cover the ever-growing imports. We covered the imports with about 35 percent. When you look at what we've been exporting under that 3.5 billion dollars, then you'll see that in that value of total exports from 53% to even two-thirds of the share of the re-promatter. It's the worst thing that could have happened to us in the development of our economy, especially export-oriented. Why? Because those who buy our repromaterials out of these repromaterials are making ready-made products or goods of broad consumption and such or similar goods, perhaps precisely of these repromaterials, selling to us, or exports, and we are importing and spending valuable foreign money for that purpose. Since we had a liberal foreign trade policy, and we had the fact that customs were removed from 15% to some 7.5% or 8%, our economy was in such a state that we were getting cheaper from imports, we did not encourage domestic production, and we came to find it very difficult in the coming years to service our liabilities on the basis of external debt and on the basis of external payment, and on the basis of interest, and on the basis of the principal, and on the basis of all the other duties we had in the meantime, whose payments are due in 2007. For example, in 2012 will be with a growing trend, very intense, and with a great burden for balance of payments and for transport in our country. I can say that the solutions that are in the law on the establishment of an insurance and export financing agency are exactly what we've been missing in recent years, except for one fundamental regret relating to the level of founding capital. Frankly, given the situation of exports, I do not believe that with the initial capital of 25m euros we can do what is foreseen in this law, primarily from the point of view of the objective, which is to balance the balance of payments and change the structure of exports in the coming years. So, if we didn't export re-romitarians, rather than having a large share in all of this, it would be either a product of broad consumption, and it would be best if it were possible for the equipment to be there. Unfortunately, we have such a situation that we are now exporting four to five percent of the equipment in total exports, which means that we do not have adequate domestic export-oriented production that would be willing to be competitive, at the same time changing the structure, while providing the necessary foreign resources for importing those things that we really need, such as technologies or other products that cannot be produced in Serbia, along with all the incentives that would give to the domestic economy. At the same time, it is good that we will have a law that will in some way protect our domestic exporters, or provide them by means of so - called so - called laws. non-commercial risks. I could cite examples of many countries that have come into political, economic and any other crisis, such as Iraq, from which it is very difficult to charge for what you exported in the 1990s. Although there may be a will and a central bank of Iraq, there is no possibility. We have been in a position for many of our domestic exporters, especially the textile industry to suffer all these years because they cannot collect adequate claims from Iraq or from some other countries that have this kind of political risk, have a moratorium on payments to abroad, have bans or inability, and if you want to, they have no desire to reconcile their obligations to those creditors they remain in debt to. In this respect, it is good to have such a solution, through the agency law, which will allow them to be secured by the so-called. non-commercial risks. When it comes to commercial risks, this agency won't be in charge. It's natural for me, because that's what's going to happen. commercial risks and insurance include insurance companies. That is why it is also okay to talk today about how in the future we will regulate the status of insurance companies, such as those of large companies such as "Dunav", DDOR Novi Sad or some other insurance companies. So this commercial sphere of risk will be covered by insurance companies and that's also good. I could also agree with the remarks of those MPs who spoke about the fact that at the very least it is problematic that the Agency's activity is financed from donations and voluntary contributions from legal and natural persons, both foreign and domestic. It could be like the founding capital that, as I said, is 25m euros, but I'm not sure it's right that we have contributions to the activity of this agency. Twenty-five million euros is little, especially since we have the fact that we will not be able to provide the initial capital for the agency's operations, but in 2005, if I understand the reasons correctly, we will provide half the necessary funds, about a billion dinars, and in 2006, we will provide a second half of the founding capital of the export insurance agency. It is very important to note that during all the years from 1957 to 1997, 40 full years, we had institutions in society that had, among other things, the obligation to finance exports, to encourage exports. So, from 1957 to, say, 1965, we had the proper state banks and institutions that did this; in 1965 there was an economic reform, so that in 1968 these jobs would be taken over by the former "Jugobank", and then "JUBMES Bank", etc. Then we had one vacuum from 1997 to 2000, when due to the known circumstances we did not have an adequate social or state-owned institution to encourage exports, so that in 2002 the Fund for Insurance and Incentives of Exports was formed, but at the level of the federal state. Since the federal state does not have a budget, it turns out that this fund actually cannot function in the way it is intended to work, and especially what would in the context of these incentives that would come from that fund, the Republic of Serbia would in some way just be participating. Now it may be possible for someone to do a double job for us at this point, to form an insurance and export financing agency, and to already have such an institution at the level of the current state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Given the fact that there is not enough resources to be allocated there, as there is no budget for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then I think a good solution is being established -- that it is precisely for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what way Montenegro will be in the future, an agency will encourage exports. Now several important forms are planned here, perhaps the most important funding for export production. But, well, the law predicts other forms and I welcome each of them, because I'm a man of industry and I know it's very important. I come from the middle like Loznica, where Viskoza once exported 100 million dollars a year; for 40 years, how much Viskoza worked, she exported over four billion dollars. Today, we cannot export $100 million even when we put together 10, 15, 20 large companies, because such a business structure, unfortunately, is disturbed, that all major potential exporters fall within the category of so-called large enterprises and, as a rule, have very difficult difficulties, either have to be restructured or have to be privatised in a way that does not allow for fast and efficient sales, i.e. finding a strategic partner and launching and export-oriented production. When you ask economists what is first in the economy of a country, they say, "Export." Second, they say -- exports, third again, say -- exports, since there is no inclusion in the international division of labour, in international competition without exports. There is no service obligations based on foreign debt without export. There are no imports of what you need if you do not have the appropriate foreign exchange assets achieved on the basis of exports and if you are unable to balance your external trade balance and balance of payments with abroad. If you don't have it, then you're threatened with who knows what scenario, some of them mention both Argentine or I don't know which one, but in any case, it doesn't feel good, because it's hard to be in debt to those you depend on and whose technologies and re-promatters you need very much to revive your current production. The possibility of funding is open here based on these funds and customers of future products. Now it may seem to one of you that this is wrong, that we will fund the buyer from Germany or Italy, but I think that's just fine, because when these customers are credited, then we provide the current payment of the claims of those businesses and companies that they will carry out in those countries: Germany, Italy or I don't know any other EU country or other outside Europe. Therefore, it is not bad to finance them either, although it is best if I now define things, to finance some capital investments in the area of the Republic of Serbia, to produce equipment from engineering or shipbuilding and in these jobs to achieve congestive financial effects; or to approve appropriate investment loans for the launch of certain jobs such as those we used to do in Algeria, Iraq, Libya, in terms of building more than 30 or 50,000 apartments in one year and many other significant capital buildings in the area of these countries, dams, thermopower plants, hydropower plants and so on. Such projects have been massively employed by a large number of our workers, through which they have provided extremely high foreign exchange accounts and coordinated our foreign trade balance with abroad, so that we could always and at all times finance our external debt obligations. Every debt is a rusty friend, but if you're able to finance liabilities based on that debt, then that debt is productively exploited, then you're a country that knows what it does with debts, a country that has a clear development strategy, especially export-oriented economies. It would be a story under point 4 – investments by consortiums of domestic legal entities and entrepreneurs in foreign markets. That, unfortunately, we don't have today. It is known that the construction of a branch of economic activity that most people employ and attaches to it at least thirty other business branches that could be included in the economic life of the Republic of Serbia through the launch of construction in a way that corresponds to all citizens. Most importantly, in the end, every insurance guarantee is guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. So, when you have insurance from the Republic Agency for Insurance and Export Finance for the job that you have done in both the most risky country, both in economic and financial terms and in the political sense, then you have the guarantee of the state that your claim for a job well done will be charged, at the latest within six months, which in a large number of cases was a very big and difficult problem that companies themselves could not overcome without the help of the state. Finally, it is also important that the psychological effect that those working for export know that the state is behind it, that the state is ready to take part, together with its business bank, in the sub-financing of its export project, in that it is ready to grant it appropriate incentive export credits with low interest rates and is ready to guarantee, i.e. to ensure its claim on the basis of such well-produced and rounded business. Then he has motivation, he has security in charge and has the ability to organise an extended reproduction in a way that grows every year and that all of his production cycles, including charge, are timely. Once again, at the very end of this part of the story, you have to ask the question of what we have been waiting for, or what those who have been responsible for for four years to come up with such terrible data in the external trade deficit, in the payment deficit, in the balance of payments, and so on, without taking anything more seriously. Because, in the meantime, we came to the conclusion that we also spent what little foreign exchange we had as reserves, which were very quickly recorded on the basis of a trade mark in the euro, on unnecessary imports, and now we have a situation that we have to do something to run this export story, so we don't get into a debt crisis. The second law I want to particularly highlight at this point is the Financial Lissing Act. We talked about him, passed that law, he started to apply himself, but unfortunately, he didn't apply himself the way I would, for example, like I would love to. Why not? Because financial leases were mainly business banks and because, in the context of the activity of business banks with 90, maybe even more than one percent is represented by passenger cars. What did we get? We have received some incentives for citizens who have taken, or for legal persons, passenger cars, but we have missed a chance that is two years behind us – to subject the lising to be equipment that is not produced in the country, equipment of high technology, equipment that we need to produce a product for export. Because licking may be the most favourable form for those who want to start a small and medium-sized company, because they don't have to provide mortgages, no bank guarantees, no avalanche bonds, and hundreds of other miracles called security of the appropriate financial loan, but it's the subject of the lease itself, the equipment that is guaranteed to carry out its obligations. Because whoever gave that lease is the owner until he who uses it as an object of the lising pays it all the way. If he becomes a messy payer, then he always has the right, according to this law and by the law of law, to draw out that object of the lysing, to put it back into his property or state and to dispose of it freely, to the burden or to the harm of one who has not carried out his obligations. The one who used the lysing object must've known what to do with it and must've miscalculated himself well before he got into the business. Unfortunately, we had such a policy that business banks encouraged the consumption of citizens, above all, through cars and other funds. And we have come to have such a policy pounding on our heads and that we are actually in this way applying the Financial Lising Act to disrupt the external trade balance and balance of payments and that we are then in a position to limit it in some way. Then the governor limited the business banks through a mandatory reserve, 23% or 24%, to reduce credits to foreign reserves also, i.e. foreign deposits, and then we came to the conclusion that these foreign banks operating on our domestic market will no longer grant us these types of credit for our businesses, but when it comes to bigger business, for example, Hemofarm or some larger company, they say – we cannot grant you a loan on the domestic market because we have the proper brakes from the National Bank, but come to us at the central, let's say, in Frankfurt or in Vienna or in another financial centre in Europe and there you will get the appropriate credit. Then there's our trouble double: these business banks here collect foreign funds, then through these branches they bring them to their headquarters, but from these plants they finance our domestic enterprises, under conditions that are, apparently, unfavourable. Financial licking should actually be a category of financial activity which is a temporary activity, and therefore a little bit of a mix of two laws or more, so in one part of this law, a financial organisation dealing with the business of the lising is defined as a company that can only act with the permission of the National Bank of Serbia. Therefore, a company which, among other things, must meet the relevant human-technical conditions on which the National Bank considers it. Now you have a surrogate company where one part of the jurisdiction stems from the Business Society Act, and one part of the jurisdiction stems from the obligations of one particular type of government, which is monetary, or NBS authorities. I'm surprised there hasn't been any further changes to this law since we've seen proper weaknesses. Among other things, I don't think this 100,000-euro limit, as sufficient founding capital for the work of such financial organisations dealing with lising, is enough. It is therefore necessary to provide a much larger budget of 100,000 euros in order to operate in the area of the lising. Another thing that is good, in order to clean up this financial discipline – that company that's registered to do financial lease business can only do that job and no other business, and that's fine, because if the grandmothers and frogs were mixed up, then they would also do business as a bank, and as a business and as a financial lysing service organisation, then they would come up with that only then we don't know who's responsible and what's essentially doing it. All other laws are in some way repairing the existing situation, but I simply wonder, when it comes to the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, why such a speed. We've had incredible speed under the current law, I don't know, the NBS decided to withdraw the license, and the trade court is obliged to make a decision to launch the bankruptcy within three days. Now it's shortened to one single day. The commercial court should only serve as a service to the National Bank to implement a decision to initiate the bankruptcy procedure, provided that the bank is insolvent for 15 days and that its obligations are greater than the value of its assets. This is not at all controversial, but 15 days of indifference can be caused by many other reasons, and there are also reasons that the legislator could not foresee. It may occur to us that many banks, which are not so bad, because of the indivisibility that has been caused, if you want, and some other factors, go into bankruptcy, and if they complain to the administrative court, or if administrative proceedings are being conducted, and the court has to decide within 60 days, the NBS again makes a decision to withdraw the permit, then all actions are counted on from the moment when that bankruptcy story is first opened. This cannot be good, and even some other banks lead to a risky business and survival in the market, and all I fear is that sometimes this story can be subjective, under the influence of those who are called the owners of foreign banks, and they might want to put domestic banking aside in some way or, if you want, put it all the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16465	Thank you. You had three more minutes, but fine. Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zivadin Lekić; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can tell you responsibly that Serbian citizens live badly. We all know that well. Don't be so surprised, gentlemen. You who are in power, you are surprised, but you are the most responsible for it, you do not realize that you are responsible for the situation in Serbia as it is now. I have to say that the privatisation that was done in Serbia was bad; a large number of companies were sold for a living, and a large number of citizens were out of a job. You shouldn't laugh, you should be sad about it, not laughing. It's funny to you, and many workers and citizens of Serbia are out of work. One employee who worked for 20 or 25 or 30 years and he's out of a job, where he's going after...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16467	I'm sorry, Mr. Lekic, I'm sorry, you want to be kind, according to the Rules of Procedure, to talk about the agenda, since you've been given your word, so these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16468	Mr. President, you're very kind...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16469	I'm sorry, the law is the same for everyone, so be nice, call out from the law for example, and you can talk about all this based on that example. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16470	I would ask the president of the Serbian Parliament to treat me correctly as other MPs, and he should not correct me. I'm talking about the law and there's no... I can tell you that people who have worked for 25 or 30 years in companies... Mr President, why don't you remind the MPs who are earning...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16471	Mr. Lekic, the bell bell is a reminder to the people's ambassadors who earn, we symbolically express ourselves not to interrupt you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16472	So, workers who have lost their jobs, how will those who are 50 or 55 years old be hired, and behind them are several family members, three or four members who support them. As for banks, our banks are closed, foreign banks are brought in, and in Serbia we have a rise in crime, corruption and everything else, so the rule of law doesn't exist, it doesn't work well. I think the government should do something to make the situation better for the citizens of Serbia economically and legally. We see every day in the paper that there are a number of murders, corruption and everything else. I pray and appeal to the government, for the sake of Serbian citizens, to get a little serious and understand their commitment to the citizens of Serbia and to think that there may be elections in the autumn, so if she behaves like she is now, she will see how it will go in those elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16473	Thank you, Mr. Leckie. The People's Messenger Sava Urosevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vlahovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16474	Dear President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have eight laws in the financial area, which the G17 Group will support, as they organise a very important area in our society during the transition period. Given the fact that one of Serbia's biggest problems at the moment is an external trade deficit, I will mostly stick to the law on the establishment of an insurance and export financing agency. We can believe that since 1957, in the former Yugoslavia and later in Serbia, there have been institutions that have dealt with this type of business and accelerated exports, as exports are one of the most significant segments in Serbia's economy. The last serious organisation dealing with this job is the Export Insurance and Credit Fund, which was formed in 2003, which still exists today, but it exists at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and is heavily influenced by the World Bank. Its business largely depends on the decisions of the World Bank, which has very strict criteria for insurance and credit allocation, so it has proved that this fund is not quite effective in its work. As I said, he is in charge of financing export operations in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That is one of the reasons why the Serbian agency was formed. That's proof that this isn't a duplicate agency. Also, there is an Agency for Promotion of Exports and Foreign Investments in Serbia. However, there is no question of duplication here either. It is not about duplication because SIEPA mainly deals with technical affairs, technical assistance and export promotion, and we at the export insurance agency and export credit have something which is a concrete impact on the acceleration of exports as a very significant problem at the moment. If we raise the level of exports, which is a hint, because in the first five months of this year, exports to Serbia have increased by 51%, there are serious indications that the government has managed to make significant moves to reduce the external trade deficit. What I'd like to say is that there's a risk of a certain risk. There's no word in the law on that, but I believe that sublaws will also avoid that possibility. It is a matter of possible abuse – if any economic operator manages to secure its export business, it can also be problematic because it does not care about the collection, because its payment is secured. In the world, this is usually solved by not being able to ensure a full claim but being up to 80% of the claim, so that whoever is an exporter has the motivation to choose a partner, and on the other hand, our agency joins the Bernsk Union and manages to check the credit rating of Serbian business partners. The core activity of the Fund is insurance against non-commercial and commercial risks. Non-commercial risks include risks caused by, practically, higher force. What is characteristic of non-commercial risks is that they apply only to the jobs that Serbian companies negotiate with states and institutions founded by a foreign state. In commercial insurance and commercial loans, most of the work takes over our insurance houses, as has been done in many countries in the environment, which have moved further into transition than we have, and also in developed Western countries. Among the actions of the future export insurance agency and export credit will be the approval of direct loans to the supplier. It will also be the approval of direct loans to the customer, because if the state of Serbia, or this agency, finds interest in lending to a foreign buyer, and this will mainly refer to buyers who import equipment from Serbia, it is also an incentive to activate our economy. What I still want to say is that the agency will also work to refinance export credits, also in financing export preparation, which is very important. One more moment – businessmen who manage to secure their export business, this insurance policy becomes first-class collateral and with such a single policy can obtain extremely favourable loans and do not have to wait for payment, which can be 90 days, so that the funds can be obtained and that the production can continue uninterrupted. I have cited enough reasons why the G17 plus parliamentary group is defined for all the laws, and especially for this law on the establishment of an export insurance agency. I call on other parliamentary groups to vote for these eight proposed finance laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16475	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic, not in the O.R. The word is Dusan Proroković, and let the MP Miljko Četrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16476	The respected chairman, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I saw as necessary and necessary, just so ministers could plan their leisure time and attend regular sessions of the Serbian Parliament. I now see that the minister is gone again and I must say that we are at the beginning of the application of the new Rules of Procedure in a very unpleasant situation. I'm not saying this because of the minister, but because we have practice, so something that is common in our parliamentary lives, to get laws without further information. I think the insurance issue, as well as the acceleration of exports, should have opened much earlier in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I support Minister Dinkic's initiative, but I would like to say that several open issues remain on account of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Of course, the stability of the economy is conditioned by the stability of the insurance system. According to unofficial information from the Foreign Investors' Council, the premium per capita insurance on the annual new one in Serbia is about three euros. Serbia is lagging behind Albania in this regard, both for Macedonia and many countries, where gross social product per capita is far behind Serbia's head. So, something in the insurance system hasn't worked so far, something needs to be changed and an environment for new investments to come. As for the specific amendment and addition of the Insurance Act, I will mention several outstanding issues. The first open question for me is the way it's supposed for former employees to exercise their rights. So, the distribution of money per year of work, which until then was where employees had up to 35 years of employment in the insurance company, does not promote investment, so it does not affect the stock market business, which in itself is a bad thing. But I think it's also a dangerous precedent, because it can happen to us in public enterprises and other business entities with majority government or social capital that workers don't want shares but want money. You have successful companies, you have failed companies, but mostly those that have failed were divided into shares, and those that are successful are proposed to split the money. This can be a dangerous precedent that can cause a certain degree of social dissatisfaction in some companies. The open question is also the way in which the property of insurance companies is treated. It is predicted that the deposit insurance agency can sell parts of the immovable property. I'm afraid that one of these modes of work, we're going to jack the ox for a kilo of meat. This money that can be obtained by selling the property of insurance companies is necessary for their restructuring. If that money is not used to restructure, so if that money goes into the budget, there is no guarantee that another government will invest the same or less amount of money in restructuring insurance companies. The money that goes into the budget can end anywhere, can be given to improve education, health care, etc. Not to mention the question of the constitutionality and legality of such a legal provision, so I would like to get an answer from the Ministry of Finance whether this is constitutional and legal, because it endangers the independence of a legal entity. Also, I was against it in the previous period, when we adopted bank privatisation and banking sector reforms; if something is privatised, then it should be privatised through the privatisation agency, not through a special agency, because we have a dangerous precedent here too. What happens tomorrow when it comes to privatizing sports companies, for example? It's a special sector. It's something that's not similar to privatizing other businesses. Will sports companies then demand that a special agency be formed to privatise them? In general, all these open questions are being dragged into one thing, which is that we bring lex specialis. Every lex specialis is a bad law and I think that when privatising insurance companies, existing institutions and existing modalities that we have used in all other segments should be used. Also, the minister here confirmed something we had previously heard from various ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is that our largest insurance company "Dunav" will privatise itself with an initial public offering. I fully support this idea. I think it's a brave decision by Mr Dinkic. But I repeat, if the assets, therefore, if the immovableities of that insurance company are sold separately, we can come into a situation where the price of restructuring "Dunava" at one point before the launch of the initial public offering is much less than necessary for its restructuring itself. The question arises who will want to participate in the privatisation of the entity via the stock market. Not to mention the case that what happened in the banking sector could happen to us, which is that we don't find a buyer on the stock market. So, that no one is interested in domestic insurance companies, to lose the national insurance house and to dramatically increase premiums within a short period of time – three, four or five months. I have nothing against foreign insurance companies, just as I have nothing against foreign banks, but the state thus, without a strong national insurance house, loses every mechanism to affect the market. The country then remains the only way of affecting the market through regulations, laws, restrictive measures, which, of course, is not good. We with our insurance companies, or with one of the largest, which should be a national insurance company, should do nothing more than the Slovenians did with the Slovenian Triglav, or Croats with the "Croat Insurance". So we need to protect our market, protect people who want to be secure, so that there is no drastic increase in premiums. To compare: the gross social product per capita in Bulgaria and Serbia is approximately the same. If you buy the same vehicle in Sofia and Belgrade, there are much greater premiums and insurance expenses in Bulgaria than in Serbia, precisely because Bulgaria has not developed mechanisms for protection. Later, she tried to intervene with certain restrictive measures. This, of course, did not produce results, nor could it regulate premiums on the insurance market. I think it's extremely well-meaning, these three or four things and what a risk. To avoid risks, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted nine amendments to a set of proposed law from the insurance sector. Also, what bothers me is the proposal to amend and supplement the Financial Lising Law, where the supervisory supervision of the licking corporations is foreseen by the National Bank of Serbia. Why by the National Bank of Serbia? If the Ministry of Finance, if the Ministry of Business were a supervisor, if the supervisor was a special agency formed by law for the control of the business of licking corporations, I wouldn't mind. But why the National Bank of Serbia? We are forming a super institution, which will be more powerful than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The National Bank controls insurance companies, the National Bank controls corporate leases, controls the business of commercial banks. It's something that bothers me. So let the Treasury do it, I don't mind. Let him do a special body that will be formed by law, I also don't mind. But don't give this kind of information to the National Bank of Serbia. As for the last of the proposed laws, which is the establishment of an agency for insurance and export financing in the Republic of Serbia, I absolutely support one such idea. I think 25m euros in initial capital is a small and modest sum. I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should work to increase this initial capital. After all, we have experience with something like this. There was a bank in the late 1980s and early 1990s, but this is a practice that, if I am not mistaken, has existed in our legislation since 1955 or 1956. After all, we remain one of the few countries that doesn't have its own insurance and export financing agency. Also, I would like to remind you that, despite the desire to finance exports, without creating something called good will, which is called image and state, but also individual economic operators, which should be the task of the export promotion agency, we can't expect any greater results. We have examples from the environment that other countries have done, how much money they have singled out; in our closest environment there are countries that only make 25 million euros for marketing, just to promote their country on foreign markets, to make someone interested in buying from them. I would encourage the finance minister and his ministry to launch an initiative, here, we have a surplus in the budget of income from value added tax, to allocate more funds for these purposes, because it's an effect after a few years and how big. In the last year and a half, we have an export increase of about 50 percent, but if we look at the structure of that export, it's mostly about raw materials, part about semi-factories. If we look at the structure of the exporters, we can also see that in a large number of cases it is mainly foreign companies, foreign companies that already had markets, so they privatised something here, meeting the needs of Serbian production, meeting the needs of their long-running markets. So, we can't talk about some kind of export of our economy, our business entities, small and medium-sized enterprises, and I think that this should be not only the responsibility of the state authorities, not just the responsibility of this agency that we're going to establish, the Government, the Ministry of Finance or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it has to be the responsibility of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16477	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vojkan Tomic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16478	Dear People's MPs, Minister Dinkic is missing, and this is common for worse students, or bad, if they do so often, to be late for class and to run from class. The proposed set of laws is from the financial area, and finance and monetary system is one part of the life that affects all citizens of Serbia, and the organisation of that system depends on the position and the workers, and the peasants, and the pensioners and those who work in the state administration, in public enterprises, and those who are at the border of existence and those who can work and those who live in abundance. With all this being proposed and with this explanation of these laws, and in particular the explanation given by the minister, and looking at the surface of the reasoning and the way he did it, it is no wonder why he left the hall after concrete remarks and questions he received from the SRS MPs and the head of our parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, and Deputy Chief Alexander Vukic, because there is no answer based on facts and truth. What is suggested, this is the roundup of the monetary and financial system of the Serbian state under the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank programme, the completion of the programme for the destruction of banks in Serbia, the introduction of foreign banks and the provision of robbery of Serbia and through the monetary and financial system, along with other robberies that took place back several years. The minister here expressed his gratitude first to himself, as former governor of the National Bank, and now as finance minister, and most likely, and what is the biggest reason, he gave his encrypted expert group, which has grown into a party, to assess that the reform of the financial system is the best in the environment and that no one has carried out such a reform as did the state of Serbia, or as he carried out the G17 with the plus. Unfortunately, people whose profession is the definition of monetary system and finance don't see it that way. It was mentioned here by some MPs as Slovenia did. It is sad that we should see ourselves in that part of Slovenia, as many times here, when some topics are on the agenda, the state of Serbia or the Serbian people should look up to Slovenia and the Slovenians to be our role model in everything. It is the same part of the scenario that is being imposed – that we are not capable of anything, that we are not able to do anything and that we should have nothing. It is a programme to destroy Serbia and the Serbian people and it is no wonder that Labus and Dinkic with expert Djelic, who sent us from Europe, as well as expert Vlahovic (who is not here), did what he did. He destroyed four of Serbia's largest banks in January 2002. The scenario also covers the destruction of the four banks, throwing it on its knees by a major Serbian economy. She was already exhausted by sanctions, but she wasn't like that to be destroyed. It had to be destroyed, because by taking these four banks into bankruptcy, they were thrown on their knees by this huge economy. Right behind that comes the Privatisation Act. Robbery privatisation, and based on an extremely bad law, and unfortunately no such bad law by Vlahovic, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation did not want any provision to comply with, and the Privatisation Agency. What's going on now? Then we don't have any legal system, no state institutions, no M.P., no prosecution, no courts at all. Now the workers who have experienced this evil fate, and will live to the end, as it is said here, is the deadline of 2007 and all workers in Serbia who have been in social enterprises have no one left to turn to. They've lost all hope in the state. The obvious examples are, and here I have cited, the companies of the King, as they are privatised; who are those who allegedly bought at the auction, what they were doing, how they carried out the contract, how the Agency reacted, how the Ministry, how the Ministry reacts to the MUP, the prosecution, the courts, and the months passed, and people were humiliated. They haven't received a salary in 10-15 months, and we've been listening here about the success of the sale, I don't know what model it was for Meridian's bank, like for Delta Bank. The Meridian Bank kidnapped two locals in the center of the Kings. Now I wanted to ask Mr. Vlahovic if it is true that he is the adviser to Meridian Bank. The whole of Serbia saw Djelic become the director of the bank that bought Meridian Bank. No wonder he agreed today and supported all the proposals of these laws. No wonder this other side was tied to Delta Bank, so she took a picture when Delta Bank was sold. That's true and most in Serbia recognized it. It is said today by the minister that he is late because 800 million dinars are defined for Kragujevac programmes, Bor, Vranje. It is not a much better situation in all of Serbia. I agree that it is too heavy in Bor, Kragujevac and Vranja, but it is too heavy in Kralje, Leskovec, all over Serbia. Which is the government that has now chosen three cities, and in a few days, a programme has been allegedly created and 800 million dinars have been identified? What's going to happen out of this? Some criminals will be given free construction land with infrastructure, allegedly for some programs to employ workers. These programmes on employment of workers through privatisation, even mentioning a figure of 500,000 workers, were said in 2002. How many of these privatised companies, or majority owners, have hired new workers? Is there any record of how many workers are out of work due to privatisation, or robbery? No one's talking about it. The minister spoke here explaining this struggle with the owner of Kurira Rodić that he bought some 18 companies. There are a lot of those who bought 3, 5, 8, 10 companies. I was talking about some buyer from Vranjska Banja. There are so many of them. Did they honor those contracts? What's the state of these companies? The agency gives deadlines and goes on forever, just to pass those legal deadlines. There's a change of the Privatization Act going on here. What's the point? These sad workers expected that the amendment of the Law would speed up the process of reviewing and establishing some human justice, what belongs to all of us, and unfortunately that change that was proposed after a year and a half was not a change in that sense. Isn't it honorable and fair and human to review all privatisations? Anything done in accordance with the law shall remain in force. What hasn't been done to break it up and undo it. This is what Serbian workers, the Serbian people, are right to do, because he has been creating this property for decades. Unfortunately, they were both out of business and out of work, without pay and without bread. I wanted to ask Minister Dinkic - what about the bankruptcy of these four banks? Labus was president of the so-called agency. Resuscitation, false recovery. In fact, they went straight to bankruptcy, and they spent six months carrying out a false recovery to make bankruptcy during New Year's Eve, or to make a decision on the orders of the Americans. I wanted to ask him if he was still in contact with that American David, whom I saw on January 5, 2002, with another American, in the rooms of the South Bank Central. As far as deposit insurance is concerned, to compare this amount – the initial funds are 700 million dinars; privatisation of banks in Serbia has been made; so far foreign banks are reportedly reportedly, it was said here by the minister that these banks approved two billion euros in loans in the past year, and that only 250 million have entered into the responsibility of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. It's a lie and a fraud, and I'd say it right here. That should be proven on the basis of facts and documents. What about three or five billion euros that come in as signs or almost into the state of Serbia across the border? Unfortunately, it's been five years now, laundering the dirtiest money criminals from Serbia, and it's spread over to criminals from Europe and the world, it's done through this poor people. A decision has been made here, in this assembly, to form an anti-money laundering agency. Where's that agency report? It seems she works as a money laundering agency, and the dirtiest one, and that money doesn't get dirty, it's bloody money, because it kills tens of thousands of Serbian residents. A man doesn't just kill himself with a gun, he kills himself, and he doesn't have a chance to work, to get paid, to treat himself, to educate children, to live politely, like any man who deserves it. And that's how you kill a man. With all this in mind, I don't think it makes any sense for the minister to treat the National Assembly in this way. I object, this isn't the President of the Assembly, that's his explanation and defending the amendments of the Rules of Procedure. Here, in the first step it proves that he wasn't telling the truth by explaining the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, all that happens in fact ends with the destruction of a small nation in the country of Serbia, according to the scenario of a great America, and Hitler had that scenario before 1941, when advised by his advisers not to go to war, small nations can best be destroyed by the formation of a large number of so-called. NGOs. To bring in NGOs, find people in these countries, and they will destroy that people and the country and realize the ideas of Great Reich and the great leader of Hitler to expand to all Europe. That is the essence of this programme, which was implemented by both the former DOS government and the democratic bloc government. Unfortunately, that's how it is, and the people recognized it. By autumn there will certainly be elections and the SRS must assume an absolute commitment to lead Serbia and to save the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16479	The People's Messenger Vojkan Tomic has the word, and let the Messenger Ivan Radic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16480	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a brief review: I hope the previous speaker didn't mean the MPs when we were making this comparison. To get back to the law. To understand the situation our country is in, above all Serbia, but also Serbia-Montenegro, we must bear in mind the state of our insurance market. That is why I will try to compare my presentation in a vivid way with two countries with which we can compare ourselves, one is an EU member, the other is a candidate for EU membership, which is Slovenia and Croatia. We have already had opportunities to hear about insurance and insurance companies in Slovenia, with the example of the state insurance company Triglav and the Croatian example is "Crocija Insurance". I don't want to mention that our biggest insurance company in the country is Danube Insurance, not because it's one way or another the biggest, but because it takes up the highest percentage of our insurance market. To figure out what kind of situation we're in, just a couple of data. The premiums in Serbia-Montenegro in 2003 (this is the last year when this comparative analysis was made) amounted to 384m and some hundreds of thousands of euros, while in Croatia it was almost three times more than or 800m euros. In Slovenia, the premium exceeded a billion euros and amounts to a billion and 279m euros. If we look at only one country that's two and a half times smaller than that... for Croatia, which has three times the gross premium, and for Slovenia, which is far smaller than our country, four comas slightly smaller, we will see that this participation per capita is really worrying about our insurance market. If we compare this data, we will see that the premium in percentages per gross social product is 2.25% of our participation in the gross social product, in Croatia 3.25, while in Slovenia it is 5.23. What is a matter of concern and what we, as MPs, must take care of, is the participation of life insurance in the total gross premiums of insurance, which is worrying and in our country the lowest in the entire region. I am not only talking about the countries of the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe, but also about the wider ones. That percentage is extremely low. In our total GDP, life insurance is only 0.08%, which means that life insurance is 1.2% and 151.8% in Slovenia. So I have submitted three amendments concerning something that will allow life insurance to develop. This applies to Article 88. Insurance laws, and two other amendments relating to the already mentioned members 243 and 243g. The amendments to these two members, first of all, relate to the assets and the privatisation process ahead. Given the underdevelopment of our insurance market, I am an advocate of the idea that it is necessary to strengthen our insurance companies, raise them to a certain level so that their capital is strong enough, that they as great players can play in the insurance market, not that in this way, when they are still underdeveloped and not strong enough, we enter the privatisation process. We can do that if we have a quality insurance law and if those insurance companies have a favourable climate so they can raise their capital to a certain level. In this principle debate alone, I will touch on some of the elements that are problematic for our parliamentary group and for me as the applicant of the amendment, which refers to the part that speaks about the assets of the insurance companies and the part that allows, this Article 243, to separate certain assets or parts of the property from that insurance company, which is directly contrary to the tendency I have made, which is the strengthening of our insurance companies. In this way, we can come into a situation where one part of these insurance companies can be alienated and thus reduce the value of the insurance company itself, as Article 243 of this proposed law is, in my opinion, directly contrary to certain members of the Privatisation Act and in some way introduces a lex specialis rule through this law and this rule of privatisation of certain economic operators, which I find unacceptable if we already have a law on the Agency, the Privatisation Act and the Privatisation Agency, which is tasked with carrying out privatisation. I will present some more details about this in the debate on amendments, and as regards the second member of the dispute (we have had the opportunity to hear this from my colleagues, Mr Matic and Mr Prophetovic), it is a controversial way of privatising under this bill, which is to determine the fixed compensation prescribed by that Article 243g. This is extremely problematic from the aspect of the market value of other companies, whose actions are placed on the market and which can be traded, because in this way employees working in insurance companies are prevented from getting a certain number of shares under the Privatisation Act which is possible in a certain percentage under this law. This means, in fact, that these employees are deprived of the right to participate in the market in some way and that, ultimately, they have the right to retain the share of ownership in these insurance companies and thus to obtain the right to dividends and all other rights, as well as all other owners. In my opinion, directly related to what I was saying about life insurance is the introduction of a new way of working insurance companies – the insurance company can hire a person for insurance representation jobs that has the authority of the National Bank of Serbia under Article 95. Insurance laws. Why does it matter? This is important because insurance companies can hire people who can sell policies on the basis of a contract, and without the right and obligation of insurance companies to hire these people, they can already engage them in a contract. This right is directly related to the latest amendments to the Labour Act, which introduces as a form of working engagement of representation and mediation contracts. Thus, this amendment is in line with the aspirations that in some ways the working-age population is engaged through these contracts with insurance companies. I think this amendment, which I have submitted, is about the introduction of a new Article 13a behind Article 13 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, is very important, because that way we can hire a part of the people who will work in this way for the insurance company. Just to look at one part of the law on amendments and additions to the Financial Lising Act, which bothers me as a lawyer, which is that this law doubles and legally norms one part already norms in the second law of the Business Registers Agency Act. This law re-emerges certain members who are in the same text in the second law. Of course, what we could hear at the pay phone, which is, I hope, a transitional solution, which is that this is the responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia and the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We had the opportunity to hear from Mrs Vesna Ginić that this is an example for now in Hungary, Ukraine and perhaps another country, but we did not have the opportunity to hear and that this is a transitional solution and that certain legal projects will be formed in the coming period by an independent supervisory house that will control the business of all these companies involved in financial lysing. It is indisputable that this financial lease law has one part that is very important, and it is impossible to increase the giving of the financial house through various givings of the citizens who are taking the licking, because so far we have had different percentages for services, the signing of the lease agreement, the costs of these contracts, etc. In this way all of this will be recorded, which is very good, and will be able to obtain a clear picture of the strength of the house that deals with the losing, and will also be more clearly able to identify the citizens that the losing house will choose. For the time being, I will discuss the amendments that I have submitted in the debate on the amendments in more detail. I think that, first of all, we need to make sure that our market after democratic changes have been made in our country is not sufficiently developed and that we need to be careful, so that certain houses that are extremely strong come to our market, which still do not have sound competition. We don't mind having strong insurance houses, but then having real players on our side.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16481	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word, and after him, let the Messenger Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seemed to me for a moment that I had seen Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, however, as a phantom, lost himself from the O.R., probably realizing that SRS MPs continue to criticise his bill. But we are already used to Mr Dinkic's behavior. He is not interested in reasoned criticism of Serbian Radical Party MPs. He was simply able to carry out what he had imagined or, rather, what his employers had imagined. We have the opportunity to see how the National Assembly really works effectively thanks to the benefits of the new Rules of Procedure. In two days, we ran over 16 points of the agenda like hot rocks. In addition, the ruling majority applied a well-known method of uniting agenda points in a single principled debate. So far, we've had opportunities to see one, two, or three points of the agenda coming together. This time you've got a little bit more nerve. Here, it was united in the first wave seven points of the agenda, now eight, and for tomorrow I think it is planned that even 12 points of the agenda will be united in a single principle debate, which, I am confident, will make this Parliament's calling an absolute recordr. If this is shared in the time available to the MPs, we are left with MPs to say for about a minute about each of these draft laws, which, of course, you will agree, and how little we would like to meet the citizens of Serbia with what is coming to them with such drafts of the law. As far as these eight draft laws, i.e. a set of laws in the area of finance, are concerned by laws that concern every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, whose consequences they will and how they will feel. In fact, this whole set of laws actually serves to legalise, as I say, the already existing situation in the area of finance of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to cover what individual state authorities or institutions are already working on. These draft laws give jurisdiction to certain organisations, i.e. bodies and institutions, which they are already implementing. So it's about legalizing the already existing state. It is also alarming that the government has decided to discuss such important drafts of the law by an urgent procedure. We in the Serbian Radical Party are convinced that such important topics, financial topics, concerning all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should be discussed in a regular procedure, in a regular session and separately on each individual bill. We're already used to it from the ruling majority, and it didn't surprise us. We had the opportunity to listen to his narcissistic policies and his praises about the successes he, first as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and now as minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, implemented. We were also in a position to hear from the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, that Mr Dinkic is using state authorities for personal accounting with political inexperiences, and then Mr. Minister from this pay phone told us that he was not satisfied with the work of the Trade Court in Belgrade. I am not surprised at this, given that the Belgrade Commercial Court has put off a NBS solution that has lost the right to work, i.e. a bankruptcy and liquidation procedure has been launched. It only speaks of the policy of force that the Ministry of Finance, or Mr. Minister, conducts. As for what has been done so far, the minister himself said that 25 banks had lost their license to work since his appointment. It called reforms of the banking system in the Republic of Serbia. We from the Serbian Radical Party know only that a large number of those banks' workers have been knocked over these reforms, that a large number of workers who worked in these banks have lost their jobs, and that the privatisation of other banks in the Republic of Serbia is also being prepared. The ministry's goal is to completely destroy domestic banking, free space for foreign banks, and then Serbia's economy will be on its knees, especially production, because that way we will have a fully controlled economy by foreign banks. While you are already calling on Slovenia, here I am saying, and it is not said from this pay phone, that Slovenia did not allow unconditional privatisation of its banks and that it left a good number of its banks, because it was aware that whoever controls the banks was also controlling the economy of a state. That is why Slovenia is the most successful of the former SFRY countries, a country already a member of the EU, but a country that did not listen to orders from the West unspeakably. Also, from this pay phone, Mr. Dinkic pledged to cut interest rates at various levels. We hear that story from him whenever he shows up in the National Assembly, he always makes a few promises. Of course, there is nothing of it and remains for the citizens of Serbia to see through this policy of the G17 party and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic, and adequately "reward" them in the next elections. After all, what to say when one of the ruling coalition's MPs criticizes these bill proposals; it is the best indicator that something is wrong. This coalition, this ruling majority, reminds me of an over-inflated balloon that we from the Serbian Radical Party call the recycled DOS, and I am absolutely certain that it does not need a needle in the form of the SRS and that it will disintegrate itself, and then Serbian citizens will be able to finally bring honest, honest and responsible people, or Serbian radicals to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16483	The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are eight points of the agenda in a united debate: four points are amendments and additions to laws that have not long ago been passed, and of the other four are practically related to the establishment of new agencies. What is done with changes and additions tells us practically that the government really does not have a strategy when it comes to the financial part that leads, and that is why these proposals are coming back to us for consideration. However, I will try to say something about the proposal for a law on the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia. We set up one agency, it seems to me to be called the Agency for the Promotion of Exports of the Republic of Serbia or something, and it was necessary when proposing the establishment of such an agency, at least here at the beginning, for the minister to say what the results of this previous agency were. The results are a complete disaster, last year ended with an external deficit of $6.18 billion, and they took loans for more than two billion, with the state being effectively charged by a billion and 700 million, as part of these loans were used to pay off one part of the principal. It says that Serbia is moving towards a complete economic breakdown and we have to stand up to it, but the sure path to resisting such collapse is not to pass such laws, because I have already told you that it is in fact four amendments to the law and the establishment of two new agencies. I think that this policy of one-off borrowing of the country, which has already destroyed the domestic banking system, destroys any business activity, really will not give Serbian citizens a future, no hope for any economic growth. Of course, those who rule their unfulfilled pre-election promises will pay in some of the next elections, but the question arises how to charge for what has been done by individual ministries, where the Constitution has been directly violated, where laws have been violated, and whether justice will be available to such a extent that such people do not pay for their experiments only in the elections, but that they pay for it before the courts. I have to mention what the minister said about the 800 million dinars of credit for Bor, Kragujevac and Vranje, since I'm from Bor. I'll remind you, several times I've said this from this pay phone, that last July 30m euros in credit for RTB Bor were promised, and I've asked the minister myself several times what happened to the loan, because the promises were – in 15 days, in a month it will be. As you can see, it has now fallen down, if this figure is divided into these three cities, it should be about three million euros per one of these big systems that are planned to be restructured or put into a situation so they can function. Of course, the citizens, I speak now for Bor, are disappointed, because for a year they have been informed daily that a 30m-euro credit line is being prepared, and in the end, it is all about establishing a joint venture behind which Jugopetrol stands, which will deal with the processing of topionic slag. I would like to inform those who are in the government that such a company exists and that for several years it has been reprocessing topionist slag in Bora, and that, in fact, it is only an excuse or political marketing to say that the government is doing something and that it connects it to those promised 30m euros that were intended practically as a credit for the recovery of RTB Bor in the restructuring process. I also told you on several occasions that the restructuring process in RTB Bor was introduced against the law, on the basis of a 1993 regulation which ceased to apply in 1997, that the Constitutional Court had said that the restructuring process had been unconstitutionally introduced because it had not been called before, to which the Privatisation Act had been binding, tendered and no company reported in the tender for the offer; this caused employees and those who were no longer employed, but were once and had the right to action, remained now without the right to action. When it comes to these laws and when it comes to what the minister said about the interest reduction on loans to be paid for housing, I will remind you that I have asked several times who can be addressed by farmers who have their own projects, when there will be loans to farmers. After a long interrogation, I learned that there is, but it is allocated selectively, and it is done exclusively through some party lines, so that the largest number of people who would want their agricultural production to increase or enter more serious investments when it comes to agriculture remain short sleeves, have lost any hope that they will be able to reach credit soon. It would be good if the Ministry of Finance, whether required by local self-government or not, were referred to certain local self-governments of the budgetary inspection, which will examine the spending of budget funds. I will tell you about the Bor municipality – budgets are spent unintendedly that there are elements there that executive power should be directly accountable to the courts for how the resources of citizens are spent. This would be much better than sending budget inspections or various financial inspections controlled by certain economic operators, although they must be controlled, because these are citizens' money by local self-government. I guarantee you, if you do this honestly and honestly, that in most local self-government, you will discover the terrible abuses of budget spending at the local level. Given that, after the introduction of value added tax, a large part of the funds that make up the budget of local self-government are actually transferred funds from the level of the Republic, there will be significant savings if you see how the budget funds are spent irrationally.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16485	Thank you. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of laws united in one debate is actually the experience of Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus for all the things they have done on the current financial market in the Republic of Serbia. All the things they've seen as flaws in their abuses and that they can cause problems for them later, they're trying to put them in legal form through a set of these laws. Once, when this assembly majority was formed and the story of how the G17 expert group worked, one of their MPs said – we are not that powerful. You are not individual, but if you have a congregation majority that makes the laws that you want, then you are extremely powerful, especially if you participate in the implementation of these laws, and especially if you, without any consent of the Assembly, can influence the nakadrovic solutions in those laws. The minister says -- the best reform of domestic banks in all Southeast and Eastern European countries. I wouldn't brag about that. 29 domestic banks have been closed in a few days. Some are among the four largest in Serbia. The reason for this is that they are allegedly creating high costs for the state, that the state and the budget, in the event that creditors demand that those funds that banks owe be returned, will come into a situation that they cannot serve their obligations, that only a year or two after that, the law would come to the Republic of Serbia's commitments to the trustees of the banks that are in liquidation and bankruptcy. So it was just a pro-longing of a truth that the governor at the time, and the current finance minister didn't want to tell the citizens of Serbia. What happens to the business banks that are in liquidation and bankruptcy, their property? First, the closure of these banks is indeed an accident, as the minister says, coincides with the transition of Western currencies to the euro, Kobajagi, happened by accident. It happens by accident with the transfer of payment traffic from the National Bank of Serbia to business banks. By chance, a terrible vacuum is being created on the banking market and there is a huge number of private banks operating under the names of foreign banks, and they do not have any founding act, or any guarantee that a German bank is behind a bank operating in Serbia as the founder. The business space of banks that are in liquidation and bankruptcy ends up under contracts that bankruptcy managers make most of the time with the National Savings and the Commercial Bank. The question arises who appoints bankruptcy managers. According to the minister, it has been done so far by the Deposit Insurance Agency, the liquidation and bankruptcy of banks. Who was running this agency? SRJ Vice President Miroljub Labus then. So none of those 29 banks that are in liquidation and bankruptcy could have been appointed as a bankruptcy manager without the consent of two men, Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic. What's going on now? I have no information that any of those 29 banks have completed their business of liquidation and bankruptcy. The question arises why, is it only the Trade Court in Belgrade's fault? But smaller banks, regional banks, where other courts run this bankruptcy procedure under the old law. We still don't have any information that any bank has come out of bankruptcy or that the liquidation has been completed. The business space of these banks is being used by either the National Savings Bank or the Commercial Bank today. By passing payment traffic to business banks National savings bank enters both NBS and uses their business space, complete their software, complete their hardware to do some work. Now who's got the business space funds going on to? We still don't have the answer to that question. When will this liquidation and bankruptcy procedure finally be completed and will any of these banks return to the market? What's this agency's job? The most important part of the agency's work is that in these banks and in these insurance companies, bankruptcy managers are appointed. What was particularly surprising to me, since this is the agency that will and will have an impact on all financial and economic flows in the country, how, under Article 14 of the Agency for the conduct of the business referred to in Article 3(2) of this Act, they will ensure from the revenues they make by their operations, okay, fees under the law governing the bankruptcy of companies, donations, etc. I'm interested, in these difficult times that rule Serbia, who will make any donation to give to the deposit insurance agency. I'm very interested in that. Anyone who donates any donation to the deposit insurance agency actually invests that the agency implements his policy and his program. This is not about hundreds of thousands, not millions, but billions of dinars and hundreds of millions of euros. What do you care if he has money he can always pay 300, 400, 500 thousand euros to get some work done? When it comes to the Financial Lising Act, about a year ago, and perhaps less, the same government rebelled when the business banks lowered their interest. Apparently, it affects currency stability. The question arises, where the banks get that kind of money, then, if the money wasn't from the primary show. Or the banks purchased securities from values broadcast by the Republic of Serbia and based on that insurance, placed loans. Who's responsible for that? The one who runs the financial market in the Republic. Who's that? The finance ministry, headed by Minister Dinkic. At that time, interest is required to increase in business banks, so that financial security of the market is reportedly not compromised, because banks have not calculated into interest and the possibility of some credit not being returned. Even the banks themselves are winding up in a certain way, because now it's extremely difficult to place funds because of the high interest this government and this ministry are affecting, so they've started to deal with licking, counting that the object of the lising is always in the case of whoever paid, who's actually the lender. So until the last penny is paid off, anything to buy on the lease, whoever gave the lease has the right to have that property. So the risk of loss has been reduced, interest has been reduced and pressured again, it seems to me, the banks that are close to this ministry now have a law that should force all those who place the asset on the name of the lising to increase interest. It's the real goal of one of these laws, and no security of citizens who use licking to get to something, any property, whether it's mobile or immobilized. The Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly criticised the previous government as well when it comes to agencies. We are now re-launching two agencies: the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia (and we already have the Agency for Promotion of Exports of the Republic of Serbia) and in this law we have a deposit insurance agency. The insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia should deal with the fact that someone who wants to place some goods outside the country gives a favourable loan or provides him with a value added tax refund within 15 days. That is why it needs to be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Given the deficit of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, we feel that you need to work more seriously on this issue, that they should be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget seriously for any dollar or euro exported and charged. The State gives the exporter a certain donation, and whether it will be one cent, two, three or five cents per dollar or euro, however, determine, but stimulate export. Any money that is given out of the budget to the exporter will be invested in expanding production, increasing capacity, finding new jobs or in workers' salaries. Each one will be returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I see I'm talking, but I have no one to talk to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16487	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Buha, shall be prepared. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16488	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, with the proposal of the new Rules of Procedure Predrag Markovic, President of the National Assembly, and you who voted for him and you who did not vote, but were present, and I think of you from the DS, you have come up with a parliamentary life in Serbia, because for me I do not know what reward to ask the President, the President of the Assembly to list me fluently, clearly (as he can do when he wants to replicate someone or address the MP) which laws on the agenda, means everything from point 9 to 16, of course he would not know how to tell me. Because the new Rules of Procedure, and that's what I'm saying because of the citizens of Serbia, is what I'm saying. I hear today that some MPs from the ruling structures have just learned how it will work, so that on the High Council of Justice and on the set, let's say, judicial laws and on considering the law in particular that you come back I don't know when and what day, and we talked about it yesterday. What we're talking about right now, these are all, as normal security deputies do, that's what I did, the neatly complex amendments to the agenda points that we're talking about now and that haven't been discussed by the relevant Finance Committee, because it's such a new Rules of Procedure. I saw today and realized from a discussion of individual MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia that they have objections at the expense of Minister Dinkic and have submitted amendments to certain members. Now they're hypothetically thinking and saying, well, we'll see when that day comes, and that could be 20th and some July, and we'll think about whether or not we'll support what part of this Dinkic law. We will not support them at all, because these laws are disastrous and because they are in direct contrast with the interests of all legal entities concerned and Serbian citizens. Of course, because of the length of time I have at my disposal, and as Mr Nikolic said today, it is pointless to discuss each of these laws individually; one of them has attracted special attention to me, which is the agency that is supposed to be dealing with insurance and financing exports of the Republic of Serbia in the future. Generally, these laws are being added to an intolerable fiscal policy that we have in Serbia through a policy run by Minister Dinkic now, and its predecessor Bozidar Djelic, led by the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, has started through a policy run by the country's leading financial institution, which is the National Bank of Serbia, which was originally succeeded by Jelasic, the same-minded, or a party friend and others, as they already call themselves, Mladjan Dinkic. What is amazing is that the minister, who came today from the Serbian government here to promote these seven laws, when it comes to economic flows and what banks need to do to stimulate the collapsed Serbian economy with some favourable loans that are not even seen and will not be, really does not know what kind of world they live in; either it is completely irrational or it is not faced with problems that today have both business and citizens. You know, as the citizens of Serbia know, that I am an MP from Kragujevac and that there are economic opportunities and they are well known to me. In this 800 million structure, which today boasts Mladjan Dinkic, will be directed to Kragujevac, Bora and Vranj, Kragujevac received a drop in the sea, and, of course, a false promise when it comes to the Zastava car factory, because with this promotion of the programme that Dinkic placed Kostunica today to explain, for the recovery of these three cities, not only are the contradictory statements of the leaders from the flag, on the one hand, Dinkic, Kostunica and Velimir Ilic, on the other hand, but the workers really do not see when and which strategic partner will come to the flag. Your colleague, it may be funny to you, but it is not funny, as I do not believe Minister Dinkic is very sorry for the first Budvanski Festival award he has not won. Here, Mr. Dinkich, you failed this time, that's your first. As for the rolling stock and what you have at your disposal, this "folksvagen polo", which was the first prize that your Keba has not won, is nothing for you, because "audi" is more appropriate for you ministers, and also for Tadic, whom you approve of budget funds to increase his fleet, as is the case with the recent purchase of two new "audia" for the President of the Republic, as Mr. Vukic spoke of. The ownership structure of the banking system has been much more discussed in Serbia and the citizens of Serbia have been dealing with this since the moment the leading national banks were destroyed. Not only were economic experts advertised, such as Mrs. Vukic, through those from the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party, about this in the latest issue of our party's "Greater Serbia", and there are indeed many smart things you have to read, write and Mr. Jorganka Tabakovic, but every citizen of Serbia was forced to deal with what these foreign banks are doing under these domestic conditions, as is their relationship to Serbia's economy. Now we're faced with this little so-called. The domestic banks that are left behind and who intend to privatise recently mostly do business, because they have done so before, with the Serbian economy, and these sides, like all those that are promoted from Belgrade and other billboards, are not doing so, but are doing their business with households about 80-90%. They gain huge profits, especially in the expansion of their business with so-called. short-term consumer loans that Serbian citizens are forced to take under these credit conditions, with incredible 16%-17% interest, because they do not have the conditions and opportunities to come to some domestic remaining bank, because these banks are barely operating either. In these banks with so-called banks. Social capital, which is not privatised in this famous transition process, are the people who were once at the leading places in the National Bank of the then federal state or Federation, built up by the fact that all that is happening in the banking sector is not being watched by all those who are now ruling in Serbia, and above all by the party that is the backbone of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because none of the so-called. business entities cannot, as you like to say, apply for a favourable loan without being a favorite of the government or of Minister Dinkic. The entire campaign and the promotion of recovery from these poor 800m dinars to mention three cities, including Kragujevac, is indeed a pale attempt to restore some credibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia and those resolution ministers involved in the project. It's just amazing that you predicted it for people in Kragujevac, and there are 40,000 unemployed and 3,000 who have failed to get on the list to receive the help sent to them by the government of the Republic of Serbia, who trust nothing either Mr Dinkic or those empty promises. So, the incomes of these banks that today are harassing Serbia and which, for a very long time, will not be granted favourable loans, both residential ones, which Mr Dinkic also spoke of, or others, are based on this enormous difference in interest, from saving by sight, through these interest that I was talking about, which is given to these consumers, or dedicated loans. A major problem for the citizens of Serbia and the decision of the National Bank of Serbia from early January, supported by Minister Dinkic, to introduce a mandatory 20 per cent deposit, which many citizens of course cannot endure, because even under such abnormal interest, they had to be forced, as they have today... Look, Mr. Minister, what are the ranks of the citizens of the so-called Foreign banks, in demand of credit for a variety of purchases of what they need. So, since January, the decision has further worsened the difficult situation of the population anyway, and the economy really won't get anything by setting up this export-enhancing agency. Today, preparing for this session, and especially for this law that interested me perhaps a little more than others, I tried to find the data and analysis done by not the people who were in the banking sector, but by the people of the economic profession, specifically from the Faculty of Economics from Kragujevac, where they analyzed the banking sector in relation to the former Yugoslav economy and export potential. Since you started to boast, and when you entered the National Bank of Yugoslavia and all your coalitions, and then the current and current partners, if we are now an open country, here are foreign investments, so you held that pompous banking seminar a little more than a month ago in Belgrade, then explain to us where these investors are and how much they are to this day (tell us in millions of euros, and it would be good to have billions in question, but they did not) invested in the Serbian economy. How much more will you deceive these people, especially farmers? If today you, following the banking sector, through the promotion of a law that is largely in force, about a state-owned credit insurance corporation, for long-term housing loans, advocate (and you said that as a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia) it is possible that, at the interest rates of 4% of credits, citizens, imagine, up to 45 years old, so whoever is 45 and one day older, don't enter that group, not only do you violate the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but you openly support those so-called. foreign banks engage in something that is not allowed under our Constitution and under other legal positive regulations and thus create discrimination among Serbian citizens. That's what's insufferable and intolerable is that you're telling us about the promotion of exports, and that's today. Why don't you skip today, when you rarely stop by here anyway, because you didn't come tomorrow, but just today when the raspberries can't understand that the ransom price has been determined, it's the lowest, of 40, and the highest (that's the question when the 60 dinar classification of this year's generation is carried out). You know very well, as an economist, that the policy of the exchange rate is the one that conditions exports and that it is not enough to pass such a law, and you should say before that, and I will repeat from the pay phone, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will single out 12.5m euros for the establishment of an agency that neither in a qualitative nor quantitative sense will bring anything to improve exports to the Republic. If in relation to last year's price you have a drop in the purchase price of the raspberries almost 50%, if you have a very large jump in the euro compared to the dinar from last year to this year, how will you people who are willing to export to stimulate when you run such a policy in the foreign currency sector? And not to mention what the market is about the import lobby and the external trade deficit, which has been reduced in nominal terms compared to last year, but it is in billions of euros – seven billion, and it is unbearable for the Serbian economy. What we cannot not mention are laws concerning the area of insurance and changes and additions to the Insurance Act. We have submitted amendments, and they are key to Articles 35 and 36, where we warn you that the proposed solutions are in direct contrast with the current Privatisation Act, which was otherwise the Serbian Radical Party, i.e. amending and supplementing that law. I am not surprised that Aleksandar Vlahovic supports you, because you respect and love yourselves as if you were born, although he is in the Democratic Party, and you are in G17, because you are on the same line when it comes to the country's economic policy, and he who ruined us for the three years and you who continued. But when you want to introduce some newspapers and you want so much to help the banking sector, I mean those false intentions of yours regarding these remaining Serbian banks, then help them get involved in these world trends that you promote, and they concern drug-brokering businesses, because of course they're not involved. To avoid confusion, it is not the drug dealings involving the garbage Natasa Kandic, which is linked to the Shipar Mafia and drug dealers; it is the business of the Serbian banks to help the Serbian economy. But based on these laws that we have before us and all these amendments we have no answers to because of Predrag Markovic and the new Rules of Procedure, because the government is not obliged to give us answers before the beginning, we cannot vote, we will strongly criticize you and we know that they will further worsen the overall economic situation in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16489	The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Verica Radet, followed by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16490	Ladies and gentlemen, today, I hope it is clear to all of you that we Serbian radicals were right when we claimed that the Serbian Parliament is in office of the Serbian Government; therefore, for this session three days before it began, we received a agenda with 45 fixed points, established by the Government of Serbia, that, completely unnecessary, what we are discussing today and these days in an extraordinary session, and then, on a proposal from one colleague, we found that today we need to conduct a debate on eight draft laws. This is really amazing. If all the MPs from the SRS were to participate in the debate on these laws, then each of us would have 1.5 minutes to talk about this package of laws, or 0.15 minutes per law. Now you see whether there is any possibility of even reading the titles of these laws, let alone saying something concrete to the minister that eventually accepts any of the suggestions or any of the amendments, one day when we come to an amendment in this Rules of Procedure. No one alive knows when it will be, but I will still take advantage of the opportunity before I move on to concrete legal proposals. I am sorry that the President of Parliament is not here, because last night, in front of the public on one television, he tried to defend something that is indefensible, and that is this Rules of Procedure, whose effect we see today, when the cameraman would be next to this camera, but he hasn't since the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, because Serbian citizens can't see how many MPs are sitting at this moment when such important laws are being discussed. So President Predrag Markovic, in one of his own own own own ways, did indeed demean the MPs and insult those sitting in this room last night. He told Mr. Markovic that someone thought the Assembly Hall was a place where something was done. He says it's not the place where things are done, that this isn't where laws are passed. According to President Markovic, the Assembly Hall is about one store where laws are laid down. I've heard all sorts of miracles, but what I heard from President Markovic last night in relation to the work of this House is truly a miracle unseen. Indeed, it seems to me that it does come down to what President Markovic said, because today we are not in a position to discuss this bill. Predrag Markovic said that from here on out of this room it cannot affect government proposals. If he can't get out of here, I really don't know where that place could affect a government official to accept the suggestions of the MPs. Perhaps he thought it was possible at the session of a committee, where, according to the new Rules of Procedure, it was enough for two MPs to sit, more than one. So what we are trying to explain today, or to in some way contact Minister Dinkic on the subject of all these proposals, is the general position of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, as I have already said, and many of us have said there was no need to discuss this in an extraordinary session. The second and more important thing is that most of these laws were not necessary at all. We don't need lex specialis, and most of these laws really are lex specialis, and it's certainly the worst form of regulation of some matter. We've also had in the history of such cases, which we all have our own opinions on, and these lex specialis, Minister Dinkic, are in collegiate with laws to be relied upon, with the Privatization Act, the Charter of Values Act, the Company Act. So we simply don't know what you've arranged and what you've called yourself to when you've arranged this matter this way, through these laws. It is clear that your intention is to pass these laws, or by proposing to the Assembly -- which will one day gather together in the number of 126 MPs of the ruling majority, when they return from their vacations, and will then vote these laws – thus legalising everything that the Ministry, the National Bank and the Governor of the National Bank are already doing. It's unacceptable for you to say, Minister, when you spoke about the Financial Lising Act, that the National Bank will supervisory the insurance companies. Of course, we have read this without you in this law, but it is something that is unacceptable for the SRS – that one man, one institution, is given such authority, that Radovan Jelasic is the main and more important in the Republic of Serbia than the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself. It is truly unacceptable and I believe that one day when we talk about amendments, you may accept some of the amendments that our parliamentary group has submitted. Of course, you also have amendments to your coalition partners. It seems that the time has come for not being able to pass any law either, that they have come into a phase when they start to think a little more seriously about the Serbian government's proposals and that they are still aware that the Serbian government must take care of the citizens of Serbia and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. You also said, Minister, when you spoke about the law on the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia, that Serbia is the only country that does not have this agency. That may be true, but I must tell you that Serbia is the only country, unfortunately, that has nothing to export today. Certainly, it would be much smarter if the Serbian government had dealt with the problem of reviving the economy, reviving production, so that we could get into a nice situation so that we could have products that Serbia could export, so that we wouldn't have the surplus as much as we are right now and only then could we talk about this agency. In these conditions in which it is now operating, better to say it does not work, Serbia's economy, this agency is just one of the simplest farces that will serve you to catch some more party personnel and that will cost the citizens of Serbia 25m euros. The agency, unfortunately, will have nothing to do with such economic and economic conditions in the country of Serbia. When you spoke about the Guarantee Fund Act, you said that this law allows for assistance to banks that have proven themselves ready to finance capital projects. Now, it would have been nice if you'd told us what the banks were, so let's remind ourselves of those big banks of ours that, thanks to your personal engagement, were shut down the way they were shut down. The winding-up procedure isn't over yet. Tens of thousands of Serbian citizens who were then out of work and today are out of work, although you have repeatedly told this speaker, ministers, that a large number of these employees in Serbian banks have been employed at the National Savings Bank. Of course not; and everyone who does not know well how many people are left without bread, thanks to your policy and your relationship with Serbian banks. Of course, we all know that Serbian banks were to be destroyed to bring here any kind of white-world banks to make money on Serbian citizens, because all of these banks that exist today in Serbia are 90% working with citizens. Of course, it's a good profit for them, and citizens are in a situation where they are, in a difficult economic situation, and whoever is doing it is trying at least some expensive loans, possibly, to change some thing in a house that has lasted and, of course, it's being used, it's really not funny, but it's all in the back and pocket of Serbian citizens. When you spoke about the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, you said this law was passed to prepare the privatisation of the New Sad DDOR. It is truly amazing that you yourself say that one law is proposed by the government for the privatisation of an insurance company, one insurance company, and especially when it is known that you have already prepared that privatisation, that it can do so without this law and that it will be as you planned; you and, of course, your party chief, Mr. Labus, who, as chairman of the board of directors of the company "Dunav" has directed all jobs to ′′Delta Insurance′′. That's very interesting, because he worked through his wife who's one of the directors at the Danube Insurance, so he'll probably be the future owner of the DDOR, but we'll see what you've done to the DDOR employees and citizens when it comes to this company. All in all, as regards all these laws that you have offered us today, Mr Dinkic, when read between the lines (and you know that Serbian radicals to me besides what we are written and between the lines), it is evident that there is a lot of confusion here, a lot of things that will not be good for the citizens of Serbia. So I suggest you withdraw all these proposals, or seriously consider the amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs or do what Mr Krasic recommends, but now he will be here for the pay phone, so he will tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-27-0.u16491	Since Mr. Todorovic has two minutes at his disposal, I don't want to put him in a difficult position, we better give him enough time tomorrow to talk. So we're done for today. We continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, and Mr. Nikola Todorovic has the first word.
