ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13274	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 194 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than 126 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago today, he was performed by the pogrom in Kosovo and Metohija, and I ask you to pay our respects in a moment of silence in memory of the victims. Praise them. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Marko Djurisic, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Goran Jaksic and Gašo Knezevic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session, in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, within a short period of time, set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: you are not with me. I'm sorry, it's a formula I found. They were delivered to you: the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 8 March 2005 and the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 8 and 9 March 2005. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, based on Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 8 March 2005. For 128, it did not vote 46, out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 8 March 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the 2nd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 8 and 9 March 2005. For 127, it did not vote 49 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the First regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 8 and 9 March 2005. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda. A group of 53 MPs of the DSS parliamentary group suggested putting on the agenda the point of urgency -- the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the candidate on 15 March 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 159 abstention one, he did not vote 21, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic tabled a proposal to extend the agenda to the new point - the draft law amending the Law on Organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities to combat organised crime, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 25 February 2005, as well as to include that item in the agenda as the 5th item of the agenda. Does MP Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 127, it did not vote 57 out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic, based on Articles 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: 1) the joint principled review on the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Market of Securities and other financial instruments, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Action Fund and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation (first, second and third points of the proposed agenda); 2) a joint review on the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the property of the electricity sector, a proposal for a candidate for the President and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015 (6.14 and 22nd Points of the proposal for direct order; 3) a joint principle search of the Law on Government and the Law on Government of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (10th and 11th) of the proposed agenda; 4) a joint search for the proposal for the implementation of the proposals for the implementation of the so as well as for the implementation of the European Union, the European Parliaments; Does MP Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 126, against 13, there were no 48 votes, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. 62 of the 188 MPs did not vote for 126. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Papers of value and other financial instruments, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Action Fund, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act, 4. Proposal for a law on regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans, 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, 6. Proposal for a seed law, 7. A Bill on the Termination of the Law on Electricity, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the application and recording of the seized property, 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, 10. Proposal for a Tourism Act, 11. Proposal for a Law on Government, 12. Proposal for a State Administration Act, 13. Proposal for a Competition Protection Act, 14. A Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Presidents and Members of the Governing Board of the Republic Telecommunications Agency, 15. Proposal for a candidate for president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, 16. Proposal for a concession for construction, use and maintenance of the highway from Horgos to Požega, LOT1: Belgrade-Požega (E-763), LOT2: Horgos-Novi Sad (E-75) and LOT3: Novi Sad-Belgrade (E-75) with a proposal for a conclusion, 17. Proposal for a concession for the construction, maintenance and use of the E-80 highway from Nis (the Trupale loop) to Dimitrovgrad, 18. Proposal for a decision on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2005, 2006 and 2007 (for points 1-18 of the applicant of the Government of the Republic of Serbia), 19. Proposals for a decision to apply immunity to MPs, submitted by the Administrative Committee, 20. Selection of members of the National Educational Council, 21. Proposal for a decision on the study committee's education to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 22 MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, 22. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of an archival building held at the Nikola Tesla Museum, as Nikola Tesla's Personal Fund, for cultural sakes of exceptional importance, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 23. Proposal for a decision setting out the Strategy for the Development of Energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 24. Report on the operation of the Securities Commission for 2003, with the Annual Account and the Report of the Authorised Auditor, which was submitted by the Securities Commission, 25. Commission's financial plan for 2004 for securities, which was submitted by the Securities Commission, 26. Commission's value-based financial plan for 2005, submitted by the Securities Commission, 27. The Statute of the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the National Bank of Serbia, 28. Decision on the education of the Public Information Service, Payments Decision in the Public Information Service and the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs Regulation in the Public Information Service of the Commissioner, submitted by the Public Information Commissioner, 29. The election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from a group of 53 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I object to Article 199's injury. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I direct this remark to the President of the National Assembly. On March 1st, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a proposal for a no-confidence vote to Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. In accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President, were obliged to place that item on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within no less than three days and no longer than 15 days. Of course, you have a manner set up by all the multiparty presidents of the National Assembly before you, which is to turn the Assembly into a servant of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. How dare someone ask the Assembly to debate and vote on trust or mistrust with a minister! Big deal, big deal. If that is forbidden, if that cannot be done with you, please suggest that you amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do not provide us with democracy and control of the government on paper, but will be or will not be. If there is one under this law, by which we are working, then you have done a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, and even more harshly because you have not put the motion on the agenda to vote on whether you can be the president of the National Assembly. I believe that you should not be the president of the National Assembly, not because you belong to a political option, not because you belong to a gender, but because you roughly forged a document that came out of this assembly with your signature, and the question is whether you are worth working with in this House more than anything. The citizens of Serbia are our witnesses. The SRS is working exclusively on the Rules of Procedure, and we're acting like a saint and a troupe. When the usurpers of democracy appear here, when the authorities appear here in the most harsh form and when they begin to serve the president of the National Assembly and the parliamentary majority, we respond more sharply than the attacks on us. I have to admit, since you've been running the National Assembly sessions, there hasn't been too many opportunities for radicals to show how they can fight against democracy. However, what has been happening in the last month in the National Assembly, under your leadership, shows that you have hidden your form for just one time, and you have not changed your temper. That is why I ask you to plead, ask and that the National Assembly be declared, let it remain recorded what the democratic bloc will decide on this, ask that it be declared whether you have injured the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that there must have been a point at the session today - a motion for a vote of mistrust to the Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Perhaps you could object to the failure of the Rules of Procedure in terms of your destiny, but if you had a little bit more sense for democracy and if you wanted to look in the mirror in the morning, before you went to the session, then you would also suggest that you no longer put the president on the agenda. You can't hide it. Why should MPs in the courts banish the truth about whether a counterfeit went out of the assembly, do you have any commanding responsibility to blame that the counterfeit went to the President of the Republic? This isn't a simple violation of the Rules of Procedure, you haven't shortened my time, you haven't denied me the right to a replica. Mr. President, you have severely injured the Rules of Procedure, keeping still the Minister of Finance who, by chance or not, belongs to your political party. Maybe not your current in that political party, but formally it still belongs to your political party. That's why I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement about this objection, and there's a serious question, if you don't put it on the agenda, whether it's worth discussing anything else with you. If you fool us about the text of the law we passed, if you trick us about the Rules of Procedure we're working on, the question is how many times are you going to do it today until 1400 hours, until the break, to fool us, Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13276	I owe you an explanation when you put an objection to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's the exact quote you said. Let me read all Members of the People's Parliament Article 199. "The National Assembly session, which will discuss the government's or individual member's trust, shall be held at the earliest of three days, and no later than 15 days after the date of submission of the motion for a non-confidential vote." This is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly, and there is an entirely explicit Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, we also realized last time that the Rules of Procedure had overlooked things, one of them was what happens in case someone else in the meantime suggested putting this item on the agenda. As you know, you and I have proposed last time, you for one point that was on the agenda, and it was about trusting a member of the government, and I, precisely because you want the Assembly to come forward as soon as possible, because for me in interpreting the Rules of Procedure above all Parliaments and decisions of the Members of Parliament, and I will always respect the decision of the Members of Parliament, agreed or disagreed with it. As you know, the congregation only said a few things six days ago. She said she did not want three points on the agenda: Mr Vuksanovic's trust, Mr Dinkic's trust and a potential resolution of the president of the assembly. She also made it clear whether the MP's will was respected, because the MP's will voted for one law, and it does not occur to the president that he is signing something that stands behind or professional services which, in this case, and one and the other, have given a competent interpretation, or the will of the MPs. The will of the MPs has been consulted, and therefore I have been handling the fact that I did not put that question on the agenda again, that the Assembly would plead, that we would not come to the situation, according to the Rules of Procedure, that the Assembly would then seek an exemption from the ruling coalition, and it would vote, because we had already shown the will. It's the only thing I've ever handled. I accept, if you agree, that the Assembly once again declares it in the voting day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13277	Ladies and gentlemen, our people say "evil beef, forever June." That's what I'd like to translate for you: who once dares to forge, will forge for the rest of his life. Mr. President, don't over-explanatoryly explain that you're trying to cloud the essence. On March 8, the congregation declared whether it wanted to put that item on the agenda, although you did not suggest it. She pleaded whether she wanted to extend the agenda that day, although the deadline had not yet expired. The first three days have passed and we asked you to expand the agenda immediately. The session was scheduled, and in that agenda you didn't include our request, you didn't have to, I didn't object at the time, but we tried to eventually get a majority assembly to extend the agenda to that point. The conditions have been met. Most of the assembly refused to discuss it that day, but the assembly did not refuse to discuss the finance minister, because it was not even at the vote. It was not that time that the assembly voted whether or not you want to discuss Minister Dinkic, but whether you want to discuss Minister Dinkic or not. Put that away, I don't object to you. After that, another 10 days went by and seven more days, how long it took to meet the last deadline that had to be discussed. You missed your last 15-day deadline. Don't convince me and don't convince the National Assembly, in this room everyone knows you've been talking for nothing for the last five minutes, for nothing. I don't know who you were saying that to. Maybe it's your conscience, but your conscience doesn't wash like that. I repeat, you change the rules of the Rules of Procedure, you have the majority to do that, you are witnesses to how they have been changed and to your damage to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. And I'll agree to that. Throw out the right to the Assembly to discuss the mistrust of the Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Government, what I shall do, I am a minority. You'll be the only congregation in the world that can't discuss mistrust, but you introduce such democracy. That's how you get us into Europe. I don't know if this Europe may be able to extend its standards to your standards, that there is a national assembly that can't discuss mistrust. It's been 15 days. It says 20 MPs in the Rules of Procedure. You could have done what DOS was doing when it was the roughest and strongest. This is disguised rudeness. At that time, it is upon our request to vote no confidence in the government, which is included in the agenda, because the then president should not have been so rudely trampled by the Rules of Procedure, on our request. The head of the DOS parliamentary group came out and suggested that the item be removed from the agenda. And that's according to the Rules of Procedure. His explanation was immeasurable, pointless, said the government's vote of no confidence requires those who did not vote for the government and cannot be replaced when the opposition wants to discuss it. The MPs voted and the item was removed from the agenda. You, Mr. Markovic, dare not put her on the agenda. That's your problem. That's the problem with understanding democracy and that's my problem in communication with you at all. You, as a representative of the majority in this assembly, are indeed in a position to implement many things, but do not go past the Rules of Procedure and beyond the law. Deal with most of you whether this is justified or not, and make arrangements with those who support you. Do they justify you in all this, and how long they will support you? As long as they press the green button whenever you order them and whoever is in their power, my dear gentlemen MPs and ministers, they will order you to press the green button and when the Rules of Procedure is harshly trampled. When they start kicking you out of this room and you'll have our protection again, just think carefully about what you're bringing Serbia into by unreserved support of everything made by the people who surrounded one man.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13278	Thank you. Once again, I am obliged to repeat: I have been handling myself through the opinion of the National Assembly. I agree that there are many things that are missing and that the Rules of Procedure should be changed. I didn't want the situation, which you mentioned, from a year and a half ago, because I thought that once the Assembly came forward, it would do the same thing again in a week's time. I'm sorry if I made a mistake, and I beg you and I agree, I beg you, once again, for the Assembly to come forward in voting day. But, independently of that, I would also ask that we agree together on Article 69, which says in its 12th position - the Administrative Committee is monitoring the application of this Rules of Procedure, considering and making proposals for its amendments and additions and giving an opinion to the National Assembly on its application for the application of certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Please, let us also take care of the provision of 199 you called upon and quoted. Thank you. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Market of Papers from the Values and OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Common principled search with 2rd and 3rd point) Consensual decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other Financial Instruments, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Action Fund and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, and before opening a common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SRS - 1 hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, DSS - 1 hour 3 minutes 36 seconds, DS - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G-17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds, SPS-21 minutes 36 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs and three SDP MPs, by five minutes on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the mandated representatives for these agenda points are in front of DSS Radmilo Milosevic, in front of DS Aleksandar Vlahovic, in front of SP-NS Miodrag Stamenkovic, in front of the SPS Jovan Todorovic. I'm asking MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the regular MPs. I am opening a joint discussion on the first three points of the agenda. Does the motionary's representative, Dr. Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Industry, want a word? (yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13279	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the first two points of the agenda, I would have an introductory presentation uniquely, meaning on the Charter Act of Values and the Act on the Action Fund, which is next. We are already in phase three of privatising social enterprises in Serbia's economy. The privatisation of social enterprises from the pre-2001 period is not completed, as long as there are actions in the Action Fund of these companies. These are state actions that need to be privatised, so that in these private-owned companies the entire package of actions can be found. This is a condition for increasing the freedom and initiative of the private sector and more efficient corporate governance. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to remove existing restrictions that make it impossible to privatise these actions more quickly and to achieve better effects in their sale, which is the basic objective of amending and supplementing the Act on the Action Fund and the Charter of Values Act. This is achieved by introducing all sales methods, a public tender, a financial stock exchange, an offer to take action transferred to the Action Fund, an action owned by the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Development Fund and the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a conversion of capital claims. The largest number of shares in the stock fund portfolio stems from the privatisation of social capital in social enterprises before 2001. The total portfolio of the Action Fund was, according to applicable regulations, limited to the sale of the stock exchange or through stock brokers and the takeover offer. The tender was possible under the Privatisation Act, Article 69(3). Privatisation Act, but not under the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, Article 52. The law on the market of securities of value and other financial instruments. In addition to the fact that these two laws were in conflict with each other, this significantly limited the freedom of choice of sales methods according to market conditions and significantly influenced the results of the sale of shares from the Action Fund portfolio. It was therefore necessary to sanction as many sales forms as possible, which will be freely selected by the shareholders, depending on which method offers the best effects. This creates an institutional framework for strengthening competition and trading securities of value and does not allow the market to be ruled by narrow partial interests, various financial lobbys and other stakeholders. This change is particularly important in our terms, which characterizes the lack of development of the financial market and the absence of various and developed institutions participating in the financial market, investment funds, various types of stock exchanges and their decentralisation, undeveloped social norms and rules of conduct in this area and the like. These amendments and additions to the Act on the Action Fund and the Charter Act will achieve better results and greater transparency in the sale of actions, etc. minority shareholders of companies, of which they encourage action in the Action Fund. It has been shown that privatisation by a model of the majority free division of employees, pensioners and citizens has not addressed the issue of increasing the efficiency of management and business of such privatised enterprises. None has resolved the issue of low current labour productivity, the necessary level of technical progress and investments from their own accumulation. Faced with this unresolved legacy, they are looking for a strategic partner to sell a majority stake package of small shareholders or, together with a state action package owned by the Action Fund. The introduction of a tender as a method of selling actions creates a great opportunity for companies that have good programmes to attract the arrival of strong companies that are leaders in their area on the world market, which we call strategic investors. This is necessary, since there are no own funds for investment and technical progress in all companies, as well as funds on the domestic market. And here we see a chance to enter foreign investments, and based on the growth of production and employment in the longer term. Their entry into domestic enterprises will also contribute to a faster development of the financial market. Another key change is the giving of voting rights based on actions from the Action Fund and their sale regardless of the size of the action package to be purchased. According to the current law, actions in the portfolio of the Action Fund are without voting rights and any form of governance in the companies from which they originate. It worked demotively to buy shares of the Action Fund, but it also created a space for various manipulations that have knocked down the price of these actions. So far, there has been a limit on the sale of shares by public takeover of up to 25% of the Action Fund packages with voting rights, and above that percentage are without voting rights. This demoted customers to buy the entire action package of the Action Fund, which on average has about 41% of the shares, as it loses the right to vote on a difference of 16%, which knocked down the stock price of the Action Fund and went to the hands of the stockholders in the securities market of value, the joint venture of the Action Fund on smaller packages and went to the hands of various lobbys in the company, and to the detriment of small shareholders, especially in relatively attractive enterprises and through the so-called so-called. the hostile takeover of the action packages through small shareholders. These changes remove that restriction. All shares, regardless of the number that the share fund sells on the capital market, on or off the stock market, give the buyer the right to vote on those shares. By doing so, all customers - the owners of the shares are equated and have the right to vote i.e. the management of the undertaking in proportion to the number of actions they possess. This will significantly increase the motivation and interest of the buyer for actions in the portfolio of the Action Fund, small shareholders to pool their actions with actions of the Action Fund for the sale of the majority action package, encourage strategic investors to buy out a whole package of good businesses and speed up the sale of actions of the Action Fund. These changes in the action of the Action Fund are also treated as managerial actions, ensuring that the Action Fund operates with the attention of a good businessman and protects state capital until it is privatised. The action fund is the largest individual shareholder in about 400 companies, mostly in 30 companies, but without real opportunities to protect the value of capital on the market with existing regulations. These amendments, too, will not benefit from all the rights and forms of management that belong to it under the Business Society Act (Article 208), but rather from the right to participate in the main decisions of which the change in the value and structure of capital in the company, i.e. the action of the Action Fund, such as the reduction, i.e. the increase in capital, reorganisation, the sale of parts of assets, the burden of assets, the pawning of things or the setting up of a mortgage, the long-term lease, the alignment with trusts and the taking of loans, and not direct participation in the boards and the congregations of the companies, but through the acquisition of the written declaration of the Action Fund in making such decisions. We did not knowingly go to full use of voting rights and corporate governance, because it would have an overwhelming impression that the state is returning to a small door to manage private businesses and directly affect their business and other decisions, and that it does not want to privatise its portfolio and end the privatisation of these companies. On the contrary, this is what we want to protect the state's action package from decisions that could compromise their value and enable them to sell faster. A particular problem is to obtain a prospectus of enterprises, whose shares are in the portfolio of the Action Fund, which is a condition for their listing and exporting to the stock market and the capital market in general. So far, this has been about better companies, i.e. management and management bodies, and the fate of selling actions from the Action Fund has been linked to their will and their interests. This significantly limits the development of the capital market and thus competition, which best determines the price of shares and other securities of value. It was therefore necessary to introduce an obligation for companies whose actions have been transferred to the Action Fund to be obliged to, at the request of the Action Fund or at least 10% of shareholders, within seven days, to deliver prospectuses and to conclude a contract with the stock exchange on the quotation of their actions. If they don't, trade in stocks will take place on a financial stock market without a prospectus. A fine for a responsible person of 800,000 dinars, or three months to five years in prison, is imposed because of a failure to comply with this requirement. Along with amendments to the Privatisation Act and the Action Fund Act on the Agenda, amendments to the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments are also required to bring them into line with each other on the issues they are dealing with. Otherwise, the Ministry of Finance is preparing a whole new law on securities of value, which will be regulated by the stock market in a modern manner. On the basis of this, I ask the MPs of the National Assembly to adopt amendments and amendments to the Act on the Action Fund and the Charter of Values Act. Since all three draft laws have been joined within this item of the agenda, I would also suggest that I give an explanation for the Privatisation Act. So we are already in phase three of privatising social enterprises in Serbia's economy. The first phase was by the end of 2000, in which the largest number was privatized and for our conditions and the best enterprises with social property. The second phase covers the period since June 2001, which is implemented under the current Privatisation Act, which privatised the rest of better social enterprises by the end of 2003. It's a logical trail of this process that first goes to privatisation the best, and then companies that are the hardest to privatize. The third stage of privatisation is marked by these amendments and additions to the law, which are now on the agenda of the National Assembly of Serbia. In fact, the rest of social enterprises are characterized by high debts that have accumulated for more than a decade, high tech lagging and antiquity of machines and equipment, and huge losses. As such, they are unattractive for serious customers and strategic investors, and the more time goes on, the harder it is for them. This is particularly true of major industrial systems, located in large cities and regional centres of Serbia, which in the past have been developmentists in their regions. Their successful privatisation is not possible without the great denial of the state and its institutions, as top creditors, for their recovery and greater revenues from them, which they will gain in the future. I don't want to talk about the alternative, and this is what we want to warn her about. It is a mandatory discharge of the request of all state creditors (Article 9 of the amendment and addition) as a conditional write-off after the privatisation has been made. Namely, after the privatisation of the suspended claims, the funds obtained from privatisation are relative to their participation in the total claim. An unscheduled request shall be written off. In doing so, it is possible for other commercial creditors to do so with their own will. If they do not want to do so, they resolve their claims in their dealings with the buyer of the social capital of the privatisation entity. According to data for companies that are in the restructuring process or will enter the privatisation process, claims placed in a group of state creditors are participating in total claims against a privatisation entity of around 75%. Of course, it's average, in many, it's 90%. This information speaks sufficiently of the necessity of the state to waive its claims to prevent the further collapse of these companies, and to give priority to their development and preservation of as many jobs and investment investments as possible by customers, which are a fundamental assumption of their rapid recovery. It is about giving priority to the development approach to privatisation in the current inflows of funds from privatisation into the Republic's budget. For the largest number of companies, customers exist, but are not ready to accept a huge burden of debt, whose return loses the opportunity to invest in modernising, increasing production and jobs in the future. These solutions, in addition to speeding up privatisation, will increase the direct foreign investment of Privatisation Entities and will boost further growth of industrial production and economy in general. The second important segment of the amendment and addition of the Privatisation Act refers to a better choice of customers and their greater responsibility for contractual obligations in the purchase of the social capital of the privatisation entity. The observed problems of privatised enterprises in the previous period give the right to tighten the conditions of breach of contractual obligations. The buyer with whom the contract is terminated loses the right to be a buyer of capital, i.e. the property of another social enterprise, as well as the right to recover the funds invested. This prevents a bad customer from being a customer again, from buying more businesses by bad customers and from privatising social enterprises as a business for personal gain. So far, broken contracts have just shown that there are poor, non-serious and irresponsible customers, whose motive was not for the development of the company, but for its personal wealth. Among them are those who were unable to meet their obligations, they show great sacrifice, but the market does not recognise it. Obviously, they overestimated their options and it would be a social shame not to give them a chance to take over other companies. The growing competition will impose an increasingly rapid change in the owners of privatised companies and before the deadline set by the privatisation contract is up to them. Hence, the Institute of Contracts is introduced to reduce the number of contract terminations, increase privatisation performance, avoid new privatisation costs and give a chance to the buyer who overestimated himself to correct it and leave the company better before the terms of the contract expire. In fact, this gives us a chance for the market to function in a certain sense in customer selection and in the so-called post-privatization period, which represents a third significant change. This change must in no way make the situation worse in a privatised company. On the contrary, only if it is a better customer can a contract be taken over without any changes, i.e. the contract and obligations shall be taken as a whole, with the consent of the Privatisation Agency and the consignor and the recipient of the contract. Thus, the recipient becomes the bearer of all rights and obligations under the contract to sell the social capital of the privatisation entity. The fourth important change is the introduction of a temporary capital agent in the event of a termination of the contract, whose aim is to protect state capital until the final privatisation. These changes and additions specify the conditions for the automatic termination of the contract, after which the unsold capital of the company moves into the portfolio of the Action Fund. In the current law, there is a legal gap, where during the period from the opening of the termination of the contract to the final termination, the biggest damage to the company, where the buyer who loses the contract makes everything possible in various ways to get everything out of the company. This solution prevents this from happening through a temporary agent, who manages a privatisation entity until the sale of capital. As a good businessman, it takes the necessary measures to protect the assets, end the jobs, and organise production, or business. These and other amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act create appropriate legal conditions to speed up the privatisation process, achieve better effects of privatisation measured by production growth, investment and employment for more efficient privatisation, both in pre-privatisation and in the post-privatisation period, greater responsibility for the taking over of the obligations of Privatisation Entity buyers and their better selection. This is what we want to reduce the overall social costs of this transition process and ensure better and lasting development effects. With that in mind, I ask the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this law, with amendments adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13280	Are any of the heads of Parliament's clubs or authorised representatives of the MPs' clubs answering for a word? The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, authorised representative of DS - Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13281	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS has very carefully considered the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on privatisation, amending and supplementing the Act on the Action Fund and amending and supplementing the Charter of Values Act. After 13 months, we have amended laws, which were promised in the December 2003 election campaign. It is personal to me, given that it is an area I was in charge of up to a year ago, on the one hand, it is very difficult to talk about these changes without introducing part of my subjective relationship with the privatisation process in Serbia, and on the other hand, it seems to me that what I have to say is difficult for me to refer to Mr. Minister Bubal. I would prefer to refer to the previous minister and the policy that was conducted in the privatisation process by October 2004. So we had populist promises in December 2003, which were in a very broad spectrum. From the fact that everything that has been done in the previous period will be annulled, so that there will be drastic changes in the law, changes that will go towards the free distribution model. Of course, the political responsibility for such lightly spoken promises was probably at a very low level when those promises were made to the citizens. At the same time, however, there was no measure of the degree of risk that, because of promises made and because of attempts to push a populist policy into reality, could and how much it would cost our country. I welcome the changes to the Privatisation Act, which we are discussing today, because there is no doubt that the economic integrity of these changes is very clear and very visible. I can't help but look back at the period since March 2004, until October 2004, when a devastating privatisation policy, if at all, was led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has resulted in a complete delay in the development of the private sector, and, of course, the destabilision of the general macroeconomic environment, which I don't have to tell you about, you can hear from the governor of the Central Bank, you can hear from other representatives of the government in that period. The result was that due to the failure to develop the private sector and the absence of planned privatisation revenues, monetary revenues had to be withdrawn, i.e. to be implemented, in particular the measures to increase the mandatory reserve of business banks, and later tightening the lending conditions, all of which contributed to the liquidity crisis in 2004 being significantly expressed. It all contributed to a dramatic high rate of inflation at the end of 2004, an inflation rate that is more than 70% higher than that planned for the government's economic policy for 2004. I'm not talking about the trade deficit, I'm not talking about the payment deficit, I'm not talking about the fact that there's been a complete lack of restructuring process, not just large public enterprises, but social enterprises, even where the procedure was brought to an end. I would be politically incorrect if I didn't say that the arrival of the new minister of this process is significantly resuscitating, but you should also know very well that trust in the process is very easy to compromise and very easy to destroy, but among those whom we call verbally to invest in our environment, in our country, multiple efforts are needed to restore this trust. As a consequence of one devastating populist policy, by those who do not have the necessary professional potential, I will not call them ignorant, but the time that comes will tell you enough about how it took place at the Privatisation Agency, at the Ministry of Economy in that period, we had a year which, measured by all criteria, was fourfold weaker than in 2003; relative to the level of revenue from privatisation; relative to the level of direct investment that entered our country through privatisation; relative to the number of enterprises that were privatised. We've even had absurd situations, where the restructuring process has already been completed, where it's only left to sign the contract, after the tender procedure has been implemented, the contract has not been signed, of course it has been delayed and, of course, that these companies have been further in the problem, and that their financial and business performances have been destroyed. I suppose he learned something from that period, and I'm building more on the initiative and energy invested by an individual and personal minister with his team than on the fact that he changed the ideological attitude towards the privatisation process itself. Now I want to say a few sentences relating to concretely offered legal solutions. I would like to say immediately that regardless of the economic integrity that is clearly visible, above all in the amendment of the Privatisation Act, and in part in the amendment to the Act on the Action Fund, the Democratic Party will remain very persistent and consistent with its amendments, especially when it comes to the Act on the Action Fund, and that depending on the government's relationship and this assembly's relationship with these amendments will depend on the Democratic Party's relationship when this law is voted on. I'll start with the Charter of Values. I think that at this point, it is irrevocable to pass a law on amendments and amendments to the Charter Act of Values, if the whole procedure was initiated by the famous problems that occurred in the process of selling state capital to the company "Knjiz Milos", and since then it has been more than three months and so far it has been possible for this assembly to offer a new law on securities of value and financial market, and not to discuss in the same procedure of amendments and additions that have been defined through four or five members of this law. Why do I say that? Because not all the problems that exist in the Charter Act and the Financial Market Act will be solved individually, because the problem relating to trading in shares from the Action Fund will be dealt with at the same time by two very dangerous and serious precedents. As a result, the Democratic Party cannot support the amended Charter Act unless two amendments are previously accepted, one refers to the fact that this amended law has been adopted by the Government. I will explain very specifically, and I really want to speak to you, in Article 3, the words "if the Serbian government act is not otherwise defined". What does that mean? This means that a new member of the 262a Charter Act will read - if by the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not different, the provisions of this law, is referred to as the Charter of Values Act, do not refer to the trading of securities of value, which are further defined in certain points. Does that mean that tomorrow the government will be able to say with a simple act -- this one can be traded on the stock market, this one cannot be traded on the stock market. Is this the matter that the Government should regulate by its sublegal act, I suppose, by sublegal regulations in the form of individual regulations, or is it a material invoice to be decided by the Serbian Parliament? There are many who swear to legalism in this congregation. If we swear to legalism, which I welcome, because I don't think Serbia's country has ever needed stronger institutions before, respect for the law, then the first elemental postulate of such... I'll be ten more minutes, Mr. Chairman, even though you haven't asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13282	I mean, as soon as you moved on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13283	Then the elemental postulate of respect for the institutions and respect for the legal framework is a division between the courts, which is not important at the moment and is not so important for my discussion, but legislative and executive authorities. It is not possible for the executive authority to regulate the material and material regulated by law with its sublegal regulations. We will absolutely be against this member of the law. We appreciate that what was intended to be achieved is achieved by Article 2 of this proposed law, which is the trade of actions from the Action Fund, the separation and the possibility of out-of-market actions. Therefore, I see no reason why the Government, why this congregation will not want to accept that amendment. The second thing, which is also very important, is the question of the retroactivity that is being put into this law. This is defined in Article 4 and I would ask that the committee responsible, before we approach further debate, be able to state whether there are exceptional circumstances that require the acceptance of the retroactiveity defined by amendments and additions to the Charter Act of Values. We have proposed an amendment to delete this article from the law and thus the issue of retroactivity will not be disputed. I think it is necessary that the Legislative Committee, before the Assembly begins the debate, be made aware of the circumstances that speak of the need to introduce a retroactive provision into the relevant legislative act. Therefore, to sum up, for the sake of the public, the law amending and supplementing the Charter of Values Act has a total of five members, the DS places serious objections on two members of this law. If these objections are accepted, we will vote to amend and supplement the Charter of Values Act. We're going to the Action Fund Act. As far as the Act on the Action Fund is concerned, I appreciate the effort and I am certainly aware of the circumstances that the Action Fund cannot have as completely passive a catch as it has so far. On the other hand, regardless of my personal trust Mr. Secretary has, that there will be no abuse of the provisions of the law, a new Article 8a. or Article 2 of this Act, which allows the Action Fund to have the right to vote, as defined can be widely interpreted. It is said that the Action Fund has the right to vote based on the actions it uses, especially in the following cases. You don't say he doesn't use in other cases. If you wanted to use only in these cases, then it had to be said - used exclusively in cases of strategic decision-making. I've seen the amendment of my esteemed colleague, Mr. Palalic, to article 8. And, as it comes from the ruling majority, I suppose it will be accepted, but I warn you that this amendment did not follow this text of the law until the end, because in the proposed new member, it is 9a. or Article 11 of the purified law, two positions have been deleted, one says the Action Fund will not use the right to manage on the basis of the actions given to it. That attitude is deleted from the previous law. If the amendment, given by the DSS, is accepted, this erasure is in contradiction. Therefore, I suggest that you accept the amendment given by the DS, which, among other things, has regulated and deleted the work of an existing member of the law, where it is said - will not be used except in a situation defined by Article 8a. I'm saying this because, despite the fact that I don't believe that it's an intrinsic law-makers and legislators that the state should return to the economy, but please, Mr. Bubalo will not remain an eternal minister in the Serbian government, as this government will not remain forever. I'm afraid he's going to leave very soon, so maybe some new minister will abuse the broad interpretation of this member and maybe the Action Fund will be a party staffing polygon. We've already got a party shooting situation in public enterprises. We have a situation that took place in JAT, in the Serbs, in other companies, we have a direct threat to performance, financial, business, state-owned enterprises. If this remains, I guarantee you that the Action Fund, regardless of the minister's intensities, will be a polygon again for party staffing and what is very dangerous, will be the return of the state to the economy. If we are all in favour of the market economy together, the elemental postulate of the market economy is the withdrawal of the state from the economy in the transition process. I especially want to say that the way that an opinion is given is quite undefined and it is not known what it refers to, and given the provision that the silence of the administration is a refusal, not an acceptance, does this mean that companies that have two, three or four percent in the Action Fund will be blocked in decision-making unless the Action Fund responds in time and in accordance with the given terms. So these are key objections made by DS. There are amendments that are proposed. If these amendments are accepted, of course we'll vote for this. As far as the Privatisation Act is concerned, I fully understand the need to define the contract transfer institute and welcome it. We also welcome the need to define the institution of the authorised capital representative once the contract is broken. That's what we need because trade courts are terribly slow to rule in a contract breakup situation. I'm asking the question - are these changes possibly substituting the second procedure that we've discussed here today, which is the procedure we've acquired. I absolutely welcome the economic Celebrity to carry out the discharge of debts, but I warn you, from experience I know, you will have a certain situation of meeting with the Constitutional Court, which will certainly have a lot of material to bring these members of the law down on discharge of debts. I welcome the economic celery, but the question is whether these provisions are affecting other individual laws, e.g. in the Company Act, which, among other things, regulates partial and debtorial relations, or in the independence of public enterprises, and individual laws governing public undertakings, or in other laws. In the end, one good intention can turn into a situation where we have even greater involvement, if more judicial matters are involved, which will have to interpret the constitutionality and legality of what we are doing here. I only well-intentionedly warn that this situation can happen, and in order to avoid it, it is only necessary to use the law on bankruptcy, built institutions, which have been built, as far as I can hear; not only the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, but the knowledge of an advanced judge in trade courts, which in this case will only make judicial decisions and then there is no problem. It will be achieved what it wants to do, that companies disburse debts and such, disbursed debts, sell further towards a third potential buyer. So we insist on amending the Act on the Action Fund and the Charter of Values Act. The DS position will not depend on the Privatisation Act, on the acceptance or non-acceptation of these proposed amendments. We mean that economic integrity is evident, but I warn you, I am particularly warning that part of the MPs sitting here, who are constantly pointing out the principle of legalism, that you can have problems tomorrow in realising and implementing these individual provisions that are defined by the Privatisation Act, because the provision of lex specialis derogat lex generals cannot be used in debt-confidential relations, as this is regulated by individual laws based on which public enterprises are established. Take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13284	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13285	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is obvious that Serbia will be in the hands of certain powerful people for another short and time, depending on whether they are in power or in consulting firms, changing, supplementing, praising, frustrating, attacking the proposed amendments and supplementing the law. In any case, it is obvious that my predecessor, who was the minister from this portfolio in the previous term, carried out the "I'll take you, Duke, and you're serding me", and in the sense that we have a former good minister of privatisation and now a good one, they're just not good at the governments they've been in. They're extraordinary, they're boasting. I saw a show where they participated together, boasted as if they were born brothers. One has the ambition to replace this other after the next election and should find out what's wrong with it, but it's possible that the physical relationship between them, due to the proximity of jobs, is unbreakable. Namely, the company in which Mr Vlahovic works is only one floor below or above the Ministry of Privatisation, so I am convinced that he knows how many sugars the privatisation minister drinks tea with. Now, on 4 February this year, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in order to prevent what my predecessor rightly pointed out, and what happened intensively last and continued this year, and this is a kind of destruction of state and public enterprises. It's about companies here, some of which aren't mentioned, I don't know why, maybe it just didn't matter, there were jet fours, et cetera. Otherwise, there are several other companies. Only if someone's interested, so she's not mentioned here publicly. We received an interesting interpretation of the Government 10 months later, just prior to the arrival of this Government Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, and we received the opinion of the Government, which brutally rejected the SRS parliamentary group proposal, with several interesting arguments. On our proposal, the government replied on our proposal to regulate the stronger payment instruments that should be charged in accordance with the deadlines laid down in the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, that the Law on Liabilities of this material governs fully, as well as the provisions of the contract itself, so that non-compliance with contractual obligations is not subject to the Privatisation Act. Then why do you have the idea of putting in your proposal a lack of respect for contractual obligations and that there are certain sanctions if you do not respect, mostly the buyer, your contractual obligations? I'm just asking what the government's position is, is respect for the contract subject to the Privatisation Act or not? When radicals propose, you say it's not an object, and when you propose, you put it in the bill. The government should have one unique position. If you don't give me a pass, I have an honest view of this, I didn't take part in any, and I'm not going to participate in any privatisation. I may not have enough knowledge as some, but believe me, I have more honesty than any of those who will speak here more professionally than I do. Anyone who is more professional than me in Serbia is personally interested in these problems, because there is no one who is professional and has not been defiled in the privatisation process. I will prove it to Mr. Minister, too, because he said the financial market in Serbia has not yet been built. When it's built, we're done privatizing. What is this reason that since the DOS came to power, we haven't built a financial market in four years, but we've forced the entities to go to privatisation on an undeveloped market. When in our proposal for a law on privatisation, Mr. Minister, we predicted that at least three participants must be, you said - it's incomprehensible, mostly only one participant appears. That was your answer. Now, if you've listened to what you've said, I assume you've been listening, you say - it'll be the buyers. Where are the customers coming from? That one's gonna push. Okay, I get that. Now I'm totally convinced it's gonna be like that. Then when we suggested that the agreed price be paid in more war, up to 12 wars, you said that the provisions of the Privatisation Act speak of pay in full, but it is predicted only as a possibility of payment in wars. Now you've already listed a six-war payment as part of the Privatisation Act. It will be if you pass this law. Now a few objections to the Privatisation Act, which should be considered, because I really want us to have the best, purest, most legally-arranged law. I therefore suggest that you have provided in Article 2 that the Agency determines the methods of privatisation, depending on the size and strategic importance of the privatisation entity, as well as other available data on the privatisation entity. It's so wide-ranging. The Agency shall determine methods depending on the strategic importance of the privatisation entity. Now you have to tell me what criteria the Agency now has from some law, which it will be able to call and say, by these criteria we estimate that this subject is strategically significant, this other one is more significant, the third one is even more significant. Are those business branches? Is it perhaps the drug industry, is it the car factory, is it the food industry? What is it that will interfere with the Agency's conviction of how it has assessed what is strategically important? Be careful, as the Agency decides, such a method will be applied. The subject is here, the entity is not involved, it does not decide, it is decided by the Agency. You've seen how sometimes you can use a phone call from the Agency to drive people to a hospital, or from a fund, or from an agency. Of course, I'm convinced that there are threats to both members and their families, threats to life. It's about huge resources. It's billions of dollars. I think we have already foreseen some laws – by not understanding this formulation, Krasic will have to help me, I really didn't believe that a married or out-of-marriage "other" should be mentioned, it should be changed, my wife is not my friend, she is my wife, you throw out this communist terminology – why didn't you predict the parents of a married or out-of-marriage friend? In all other laws, we predicted that he was a member of a family and a parent of a mate or an outsider. What does that mean to you if you forbid a parent of a wife who is an official participant, and you did not prohibit a parent of a husband who does not appear as a participant and does not mention him anywhere in the limits prescribed by the law. I think you can make it right, that you need to make it right. Technically, Article 5 was supposed to be regulated in a new position, in the old point 3. You've overwritten five lines of crap, and you could only do that one definition in Section 3. It would be a cleaner law, with Article 7, Article 19, where there was supposed to be a new attitude. I am interested in Article 20a, in which it is now the obligation of the State Commissioner to report his claim in writing, is there a penalty if the State Commissioner does not report his claim? There is. I didn't see it in the penitentiary. I'll take it I didn't get a good look, but I'd like to ask you if there isn't, to make it right. I read the bill carefully, and I didn't read it. Article 20b, this cannot survive, you provide that the arbitration council resolves after the conflict of Article 20a, that it has three members and that the parties determine the larger by proposing one by the state trustee, the second privatisation entity, and the president is a senior finance minister or a designated person. These two members are more directly interested and from the same club. The minister, too, represents the state. So you'll have two representatives of the state versus one of the privatisation entities. Why do you need so much arbitration? This council will never be able to decide in favour of the privatisation entity because it is then necessary to replace the minister or should replace the one representing the state capital in that arbitration council.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13286	Mr. Nikolic, you're probably going to continue for another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13287	Yeah. Now we come to what it was and the SRS election campaign and I wish this law was fully regulated. Namely, I welcome, accept the proposal, which is Article 20, in which article 41a is changed, and you finally state when the contract is considered to be broken. It's our story if they don't respect the terms of the contract, etc. What about the unrespected contracts so far? This is where I suggest we establish retroactivity. You have this retroactiveness in some laws and you have not asked us to particularly declare this, you will have to and this should be the Legislative Committee to warn you, but these are now more unfavourable conditions for new customers than the conditions under which this law has been purchased until the entry into force. Why would something you now declare the basis for ending a contract allow the past? So what, who's gonna blame you in the world if you break the contract, concluded two years ago, if it's not fulfilled. Who's that? That's not a buyer. It's a thief and a fraud. That's why I accept full Article 20, but if you want the support of the SRS parliamentary group for the retroactiveness of this decision, you will have it. If someone has to honor the contract from tomorrow, they've had to respect it both last year and before. It turns out that privileged buyers have finished the job and that you agree. I can't accept that. I can accept that you agree that someone bought and didn't respect the contract, and you know that's not right, you're changing the law and you're not punishing someone who's come to social property in this way, mostly social property. The market of securities of value; Article 52a, for it must establish retroactivity. Article 67, it must be established retroactiveness because Article 4 tells you that the provisions of Article 1(1) and (3) and the provisions of Article 2 of this Act apply also in cases where a decision on the sale of shares by a public tender is made before the entry into force of this law. You cannot determine without special determination of the retroactiveness of a decision that will apply even before the law enters into force. He can't. The Constitution doesn't allow that. Maybe in some country, it can't be here. Article 262a is humiliating for the National Assembly, for the constitutional order of this country, for the laws we bring. So, the law applies if the government doesn't say by some other act that legal ones can be applied. Don't. I have no confidence in the Constitutional Court in this composition, and only as the government will interpret the Constitution and the laws, so that it decides when the law will be applied, I can only imagine. So this law with very few members is a legal complete hollow, almost made senseless. If there is a possibility and if there are such amendments, accept them, and if not, this is no constitutional court in the world that could miss you, or even one that's quite party-like. The Act on the Action Fund; this right to vote on actions transferred to the Action Fund, I repeat, changes in completely the conditions under which privatisations have been made so far, but I am interested in the latest position of the new member, in which you say that the way in which the Action Fund is exercised will be declared by the Minister responsible for privatisation tasks, i.e. by means of the actions transferred under Article 1(1). A way to exercise the right to vote. I think it has to be entered into the Action Fund Act. The law must regulate how the Action Fund will exercise management rights based on the actions that have been passed on to me, not the minister closer to the instruction. Whether to join his voice to anyone, whether he will be opposed, how he will plead, who will represent him, I would not leave it behind and leave it outside legally regulated matter. These are the remarks I can make in the principle debate on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Our MPs have applied for a discussion. Each of them will make further remarks within the material he or she is studying or engaged in. A parliamentary group of amendments tried to influence all three draft laws. We're not the ones who are going to break a law that has good intentions, but I would love to see this good intention, which I see in all three laws, still be undermining good amendments that correct obvious mistakes. I think the laws might be acceptable then.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13288	Thank you. The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13289	Thank you, Comrade Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so yes, mate, because we're socialists and we call ourselves that. Today, three important laws are on the agenda, and I just don't know who I'd rather talk about in this time, but I'm still going to define that I'm talking about amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, because it seems to me that this is the essence of the changes that are proposed. Of course, as a Socialist, as an MP for the SPS, I would be much more pleased to have joined earlier changes to the Law on Privatisation, not only by the government of Mr Kostunica, but also by the previous government and by the former minister. We differ in the concept of privatisation, and these differences can't go beyond this change of the Privatisation Act. The minister fairly precisely divided three periods in the privatisation of Serbian businesses, saying that solid enterprises were sold from 2001 to 2004 in the first phase of 2000, i.e. the privatisation of the best enterprises, that solid enterprises were privatised from 2001 to 2004, and that the previous 2004 and this year, the need to privatise those companies which cannot be called good. And worst of all, for us socialists, this privatisation will end up in a model that is not acceptable to us. It is not acceptable to start with the obligation to sell 70% of social capital. I remind both you and Serbian citizens that by 2000, it is the right of workers to acquire up to 60% of the capital in their businesses, and about 40% or slightly more has been transferred to an action fund, which, according to the amendments and additions of the Action Fund Act, should be traded by the Action Fund in the future. And she's ruling, and I think this one, too, is simply afraid of the possibility that workers become to a greater extent the owners of their businesses, according to their own rules, because they participated in the creation of that capital. Nobody ever answered my question -- why exactly 70 percent of the capital is being sold. Neither could Mr. Vlahovic, and I don't think Mr. Bubalo can either. No one was able to answer my question -- why exactly 70%, why not 51%, if we already insist that someone be the majority owner. Why not 60%? But why 70? In which the 30%, which workers have the right to take action, in life, therefore, in practice, comes into question, because they don't normally own those shares in that percentage. It all depends on how calculated, how many there are at that time alive, how many after one year of internships are entitled, etc. and then it happens that one share of the capital in these companies can not be privatised, i.e. to workers, but in the light of these actions, based on this so-called. Unsold social capital, without compensation, is transferred to the Action Fund. Now they've come to the turn of big businesses. Large businesses, which I must confess to this government, show great concern. I think that this concern is sincere and that it is happening at a time when the objectively and constrained capabilities of the Government are to help these companies, and the changes proposed by the Privatisation Act are precisely about creating conditions for these large enterprises, in which, as far as I understand it, works more than 200 thousand workers, by making it easier for the state, through all their segments that participate, to write off its claims from these companies. Here it's called - the discharge of debt. The minister correctly estimated, in my opinion, that around 75% of all the commitments that these large enterprises have to do with the state or some state funds, such as the development fund, to the state institutions in one word. It's not a question for me. I'm content with why it hasn't been done in the past four years, at the very beginning of privatisation by this model, where I see myself, and today it persists. Why did the government of Mr. Djindjic, why Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's Government, on the proposal of Mr. Vlahovic, did not do so then, and in 2001, when possible, I mean in better circumstances, write off, or fire the debt by state-owned entities in large enterprises, facilitate the life of these companies, start to a greater extent, and make these companies more attractive for sale, even in this model. Why were they waiting for you to get kicked by the big one? Was that the intention? Whether it was an IMF request, which justified a lot over the past three or four years in the privatisation process, and that provision that all the funds realised by the sale must go into the republican budget, and then be spent from it in a manner regulated by the Budget Law. Should it have waited for 200 thousand de facto people to lose their jobs and for the little capital that was in the companies that are now being restructured to melt. I remind you all of the fact that employees of these companies have no right to action. Because it's said in categories I've never heard before, there's negative capital in the company. Which in translation, at least according to what I understand, will mean that these companies owe more than they are worth capital, i.e. property in these companies. And in the meantime, it's like someone was just trying to get us to add up the capital in negative categories and with a negative sign. Unfortunately, everything over the past four years has been arranged in a way that I don't think has been in agreement with the Privatisation Act, and I can also say with the Constitution. Because everything was regulated by regulations. Among other things, the way and process of restructuring the companies that are being talked about here today. Why haven't we had any changes to the Privatization Act on that subject? Why did it have to be all regulation? And I remind you that the regulations were passed, for example, in January 2003, that the Privatisation Agency only in October of that same year in 2003, issued an invitation to the trustees to report their claims and that nothing happened from that moment until today. There is no restructuring, and there is no settlement of trustees to any extent and any extent. So, 70% of the debts we're going to release on behalf of the state are fine, but for me, there's a question that I have to ask -- what about those 25% or those 30% of the debt of these large enterprises, which are being restructured, according to so-called. commercial trustees, and as a rule small or medium-sized enterprises. Are we going to bring these companies to the beggar stick or force them to continue, because they are unable to collect their claims from the big ones, fail or go bankrupt? The law says - these commercial creditors have the possibility to deal with a future buyer of companies that are in restructuring agreements on the way and the level of collection of their claims. What if they don't make a deal? What if no sale price is reached, as far as possible. Because there are so-called. strategic partners who are now subject to restructuring will not give a single cent, not a single dollar, not a single euro, because they have been brought to the beggar stick, that they have to invest a lot to run there, etc. And now you have a paradox that workers instead of regretting that, under the previous law, they did not become shareholders in these companies, have a social, random, life-long need to survive these businesses to preserve those jobs. To save your jobs! And, please, I am convinced that in the approach to this issue legislators and government must distinguish between those companies that have been sold, but I am underlining that word - sold, in the period from 2001 to today, to an in-house owner, one individual, one buyer, perhaps a tycoon, or I don't know any man, who has come to some financial means and bought it, that they must distinguish between these companies and those companies that are privatised by 2000, precisely because in these companies, the majority owners are workers. And workers in these companies, as shown in many examples, were good hosts, did not spoil the story or the quality of their company’s work. Unfortunately, they've had sanctions, they've had wars, they've had postwar reconstructions, they've had many difficulties that they couldn't get out of the way they're dealing with problems today. That's why the state would... (President: Mr. Todorovic, will you continue? Yeah, yeah... She had to think about how to help these companies, because they too have amassed obligations to the state, to the funds, and if you want to, some of the commercial banks that are in bankruptcy, which are cared for by the Agency for the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation, etc. There's another question that's questionable for me in the Privatisation Act. That's the question -- is anyone going to ask the workers, shareholders with 30% share in the company, are you, gentlemen shareholders, workers, agreeing to change the owner, instead of Mark to come to you with Janko. There are no obligations here in the law, and it is natural to think that workers who are shareholders are 30% – someone else is a shareholder, i.e. the owner of 70%, has failed to meet their obligations, and wants, with the agreement of the Agency, to transfer their rights as manager and owner to the new buyer – they have to ask themselves. It doesn't matter if Kurt comes instead of Murta, because both of them have to show workers enough quality and enough entrepreneurial and business visions that they'll be better off with him, and at the very least they won't get any worse. There is no such provision in this law, and I think it is again a sin against shareholders, and that this spreads the unwarranted fear of the participation of workers in labour and corporate management. Now here I'm continuing the story of the Action Fund. I do not dispute that the Action Fund as the owner of the stock, if you want property or capital, however, in the companies that are privatised will be for something and questioned, but it is disputed for me that workers, shareholders do not ask questions about it. That's what I'm worried about. When I say I'm not content to be questioned by the Action Fund, I look at what the action fund needs to be asked about and I come to the conclusion that it's gone too far in some way. Here is the exaggeration, at nine points, we need to get the consent of the Action Fund for an action: a reduction, i.e. an increase in capital; a reorganisation of a stock company; a sale of shares of assets; a burden of assets; a pawnship of things and the establishment of a mortgage; a long-term lease; a settlement with trustees; a takeover of credit; in cases of acquisition and possession of assets. The next stance says - stock companies are obliged to obtain a written statement from the Action Fund on this. I can be obliged, but if the Action Fund won't give a written statement, then I'm obliged. Another thing that is important about this is whether any company in which there is a majority owner will have to, when due to its current business policy, address business banks for certain loans, etc., first to contact the Action Fund, to grant him a short-term or somewhat longer-term debt of a million, two, three or five, in order to start a production line, some production or to pay off profits to employees. It turns out that if he doesn't get the consent of the Action Fund, as Mr. Vlahovic would say, silence from the administration, he can't even take the credit that life means to him at that point. Or why they'd keep me from the majority owner selling extra property. Excess property can be contained in business space. It can be contained in some facilities that do not use basic activity, which bring loss, and by selling that property, fresh blood would be injected into the financial flows of the company and the company would move forward in itself. So I am for anyone who owns it, especially the Action Fund, to ask, but I am not for his decisions to determine fate even for those things that are not a matter of strategic decision, but a matter of business policy for a short period of time, for a month, a year, etc. It's pretty controversial for me. I think there's a good amendment here. We might even be able to accept Mr Palalic's amendment, and even Mr Vlahovic's amendment, so that in the legal and technical order, we can solve this dilemma, because there are situations where simply these provisions can be misused. I have no prejudice about Mr. Bubal, I believe that he will work in a way that is best, but one day there will be another minister, there may be another government, and it should not be a subjective question, but just a question that is regulated by law, and by law, in a way that does not slow down. For me, that's the point. A few more things that matter to me. I was just talking about the little trustees of the big companies. You now have a provision in the Privatisation Act, Article 32, which specifies what was present even now and in Article 20. The Privatisation Act, that all procedures for forced collection in enterprises that are being restructured, even according to judicial judgments where the enforcement proceedings have begun, are not in line with the social and economic, particularly the financial moment given, within the deadlines that I think are too wide-ranging. For example, Article 32 states - against a privatization entity, i.e. over its assets, for which a restructuring decision has been taken by the date of entry into force of this law, it cannot be determined or enforced, nor by any measure of enforcement, in order to settle the claim within one year of its entry into force. That means one year from the day we pass this law, and let's say the restructuring of a company was made two years ago, and plus this, that's three years ago. For three years, no one in this country can collect their claim, no matter how much there is a mutual desire both sides and so on. It should not be forgotten that companies that are in restructuring are possible creditors and local self-government. Public enterprises in local self-government, they are not required here to release the debt, but they appear within those 25 average percentages of claims by small creditors, and what to do. They can't run executive procedures, two years it's all been going on, plus one year, that's three years, and in that time a lot of things can't be done in local self-government, and the kid can't go down. Now in the second position, it remains at hand in this intensities, and it is said - if a decision on the restructuring of the privatisation entity is not taken until the date of entry into force of this law, against the privatisation entity, that is, its property, forced enforcement cannot be determined or implemented within two years of the date of the decision on restructuring. I could now understand that from the point of view of the deadline within which action by the Action Fund is said to be sold, no later than 31 December 2008. But that's a little bit controversial to me, because how can the Action Fund be obliged to sell something by 2008, and no one in this country was obliged to buy it. What if he doesn't sell? The end of privatisation in this country will be precisely to respect the deadline, i.e. when actions of the Action Fund are sold. For me, that's the point, because there's no end to privatisation as long as it exists, both in terms of social capital and in a single percentage of social capital. I must say that the SPS's relationship, when it comes to voting on this law, will be just about how the proposer and this assembly majority will be brought to our amendments. Are we going to get the approval of the promoters that in future time they will go into some other changes concerning the Privatisation Act, especially when it comes to social land, and I underline the word socially, not the state, because we have as a matter of privatization of enterprises that have social land, as agricultural combinations, etc., especially in Vojvodina, and what it will be. This will be discussed by some of my other colleagues, such as Žika Smiljanić, who comes from those parts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13290	Does any other authorised representative or president of the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ) All MP groups of speakers reported. The first word has a Messenger of the people, Živorad Smiljanić, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Knezevic. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to inform you of the way I intend to conduct this session. It's about dates only, and I'll be leading her to the Rules of Procedure, just like I've done so far. So tomorrow the Assembly won't be in session. Next week, it will take place on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and from that Sunday, when it comes to this session, neither Monday nor Friday will be done. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Smiley. Take a break first. Resume at 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15.55]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon session. 145 MPs are present on the official record. Please, before we begin to determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I find there's enough to work with. Mr Stamenkovic, an authorised representative of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, came forward. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that, due to a large number of scheduled committees, this afternoon's session will only take up to 17.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13292	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are in the third phase of privatisation, with the fourth law, which has been changed as well as before the work that will also be the most difficult, the most difficult phase in this whole process that we have met so far. In order not to repeat the Minister's words on the situation in enterprises that have remained unprivatised, which is overburdened by debt, technological backlog, etc., a question arises which part of these companies will be sold, i.e. privatised by law or, perhaps more realistic in most, go to the private sector through bankruptcy, i.e. bankruptcy or reorganisation. As far as we are concerned, MPs from the SPO - NS MPs are concerned, we will find it difficult to support this law because it directly opposes some of our programming principles and what we seek, for one single reason, that we have inherited the situation as it is and that you cannot change the rules of the game in the third third-third of the game, because then there is the breakdown of the system and the worst model of privatisation, which would be that model of privatisation without law, or without privatisation, because the worst one is the privatisation that suddenly arises and complete property is being distributed. Unfortunately, I mentioned our programming principles, for us, are exactly what we'd like to install into this law taboo topic. I'll explain why. The Privatisation Committee deals with, above all, with an analysis in the post-privatisation period and, since we had a really large number of problems, in the middle of last year, we formed a working group to implement some principles from a number of individual cases, which should be installed precisely in the case of these amendments and the addition of the laws, in order to speed up the privatisation process, but not only because of the acceleration of the privatisation process, but because of transparency and for the respect of all the participants in the privatisation process. On June 9th last year, we proposed a programme of measures, almost 40 measures, one of which was incorporated into these changes and additions. But most of it isn't. What are these taboo topics that, unfortunately, we couldn't talk about in changing these laws? First and foremost, it is a model of privatisation. Now, let's get this straight, no matter what some people have praised him, this model is only good for putting money into the budget. But not to look too black, there are other advantages, but this is the model that gave the least results in that part that we expected, which is the growth of production, new jobs, an increase in employee standards and are precisely the effects that one privatisation should give. If we look at that law that was passed in 2001, there are essentially good things there as a declaration. However, unfortunately, we are in the Balkans, so very often we talk, we think, and the third we do. I say these programming principles of Article 2, which are not the subject of these changes and additions, are good, wonderful. Creating conditions for economic development and social stability. Who won't? Public security, or so-called transparency, etc. You know that this law is based on four principles, but when we look at the application of that law, much is exactly the opposite of the declared principles. If it is the public, just to remind you, if it is the equality of customers, the equal position of customers in the privatisation process, we had three sugars for three euros each, sugars that worked, so that they would now prepare for the sale of sugars that haven't worked for years and are already priced at 3.5m euros. By the way, 3.5m euros is not much, but much more than three euros. I know that individuals will say -- well, yes, but it's not just three euros, there's an investment, there's a social programme. Unfortunately, it's another one not to say fraud, but look, at least we in the Privatisation Committee have a lot of experience, investment mostly goes around in different ways. Reports of audit houses are obtained, so the forest and sheds are inserted into the confectionery, and flour is introduced as an investment into the milling and bakery industry. The flour is a cost that comes back over the price of bread. It can't be an investment. Especially with these tenders, it is invested directly from the current inflow, from the current income; this is not the purpose of the privatisation process and thus does not provide new jobs as we wanted. We suggested, among other things, changing the model, and even a partial, with working stocking where possible, where it's better to give the company workers than at the eighth auction to sell to someone who's only come to wash their capital. We had an idea, and there even the previous director of the agency Pavlovic agreed with us, that recapitalisation is one of the very good models for new investments, because logically one who comes with investments prefers to create a new factory in the circle than to give in the budget, i.e. the state of certain money. It's gone, and the factory stays, and new programs remain, new jobs. Here we were prepared to talk about the percentage of capitalisation, so who, through such capitalization, wouldn't become the majority owner and devalue the rest, but that didn't go in either. So we couldn't influence the model, and that's taboo, because the change in the model represents a possible break-up of the privatisation process, and that's why, sitting on our hands all afternoon, we're going to vote for this law, but I'm asking those who advocate it not to crash that it's an ideal model and that's why it doesn't change. The second taboo theme, again, is, as my colleague said, the curse of unexecuted denationalisation; I quote Mr Matic. This curse remains on us again for purely pragmatic reasons – regardless of what is first denationalisation in the SPO-NS programming principles, however, we are entering the fifth year of privatisation without the denationalisation being carried out – because the property has been taken away so incorporated into social property that it is very difficult to divide them rationally and therefore this new law on the registration of seized property goes. We have a total, when we made a list of 39 different laws based on which injustice was committed, alienated, taken away private property. Now we've said -- unfortunately, it's got to be for other changes and taboo additions, because if we try this moment to denationalize, we'd have a disaster again, although there have been attempts on past changes, two years ago, that when we define the subject of privatisation in Article 3, we'd single out even if that property was taken away without being sold with other assets, but that it's waiting for a better time for denationalisation, in order to reduce the amount of injustice. (President: Will you be using another 10 minutes? Yes. To go back to the law, to start with a few institutions that bring these changes and additions, primarily from restructuring. I welcome the restructuring, but from these three points, the status changes, the write-off of the principal and debt and the discharge of debts, I recommend to the Ministry of the other two. Status changes, these are very problematic changes and the most expensive part of the restructuring process. I would not agree with one of the previous speakers who said there was a complete lack of restructuring procedure in 2004 and that this was a lack of this government. Unfortunately, such restructuring as we had in the previous period, I'll describe it to you through the results of that restructuring, and these are public calls, and here I only have two examples for "First Spark" Baric and for "Viscoza" from Loznica. They were in the restructuring process according to the previous model, Rothschild was a financial adviser. But what they were doing, please look. The results of the previous one have been described, the contract has expired, and now we're looking for a new advisor for some new money. What they did: the diagnostic report, the second -- the assessment of the value of capital, the third -- the draft restructuring programme, the fourth -- legal opinion on debt reprogramme, the fifth -- the draft privatisation strategy, the amount of debts, that was with Loznica; at the First Spark Baric, among other things, were working on a draft privatisation strategy, the harmonisation of debts at the level, etc., and then the division of businesses to business centres, operating units, to sell by bits; exactly the kind of job that is in vain. That's where even one of the creators of the previous privatisation law on the round table, my colleague, my denominator, Professor. My dear Rabbit, when describing the restructuring from the previous period literally said - what are you doing? In a picture, you take one apartment, you put on new bulkheads, you paint it, you hit the red color, and then the buyer comes in, and he says, "You're free, I won't do that, I want different bulkheads, different regals, or status changes that match the buyer." The status changes for an unknown customer should not be exhausted. The financial advisor must provide a real strategic partner, or buyer, and, for his account, propose a restructuring programme, status changes. Why did I say it was a way to launder money? I'm a witness to what was going on on the ground, what was Numura doing, what was the radio and "Deloitte and Touche," so in the privatisation programs for certain businesses, when they were shooting on the ground, they were sending all these renowned foreign houses with big names, because they didn't get paid to have their experts working on our field, they hired our people, and by the rule of that gorado, I watched them on the ground, who know a lot, but they don't know anything, because it's their first job, their first job. It was "Numura" in "Neven" Leskovac, though not in the restructuring program, but in the preparation of tender documentation. The tender has failed, like many, because such financial advisers have not responded to their mission and I therefore welcome the write-off of debts and the discharge of debts. That should raise the attractiveness of the company, and it should provide for, someone here, though, said with a little cynicism - the rush of the customers. There will be customer attacks, because when you relax the company, there's a lot more chance of real partners showing up. Time's running fast. I'll skip some. I welcome the contractual obligations and the termination of the contract under this law. Why? It's exactly the biggest problem we've had on the Privatisation Committee, so we've even scheduled a thematic session with one topic: contracts. We had four types of contracts from the beginning of privatisation to today and all the problems were created precisely because of the inaccuracy of the contract. This way is one way, and the other kind of problem is that the termination of the contract went through the Trade Court, despite our requests and regrets, to take preferentially such cases, where the termination of the contract was concerned, so that the assets of the companies would not be split up in the meantime, our trade courts were very slow. Unfortunately, out of the three pillars of our society, the judiciary is, I may say, responsiblely, that segment of society that is least restructured and least effective. This also reflected the privatisation process. With this solution, that the contract is predetermined break-up conditions and that the contract is broken down by this contract, it will be much more efficient and there will be no intermedia when there is powerlessness in the company, when there is no knowledge of the structure of ownership, the ownership is transferred to the Action Fund. It may be a model in principle, because if we break the contract with an unconscious buyer and transfer his assets to the Action Fund, we do the state. I wish in 2001 we'd taken full social property to the state, we'd keep it from breaking up. Since we'd have a title holder setting up management, we wouldn't have what management in social enterprises was doing just for our own good. Workers' action is being held, because 30% of the ownership remains, is not touching. So, I welcome that as a model. I say, I wish we had organized ourselves that way before. We have such experiences for only this previous year's work on the Privatisation Committee so we can talk for days about problems. Just one more thing, since I am nearing an end, the level of income, is being replaced by a typical thesis here and the result of this ministry, and this government is being measured by the funds selected from the privatisation process in 2003 and 2004. Unfortunately, it is not the government's success, because it sold without a strategy, what could be sold, most profitable, the success of privatisation in 2003 is measured by money only because of the sale of an attractive tobacco industry, due to the sale of the tobacco market, which in Serbia is at $1200,000. In two years' time, the clean rest of the income returns what they gave at the purchase. Therefore, it is not a success, it is a lack of strategy, because in normal countries a national privatisation strategy is being created. Two years ago in this House, I was talking about the case of Ljubljana's Lek, which was worth $20m in 1989, and two years ago was sold for a billion dollars. We sold the most profitable start-up companies for no money. "Health" in Leskovac was sold for 3.5m euros, and a week ago we had an auction for a gas station near corridor 10 and you know what value was reached at auction - 210m, nearly threem euros. One strategic pharmaceutical company was sold for 3.5 million. Someone will tell me - yes, but investments. Yes, investments are, I'll document you, all derived from the current income, as well as the social programme. Therefore, this law will support the SPO-NS parliamentary group, as the journalist "Today" said in his article, "as repairing the shoes that sting", not as good a law. Unfortunately, the privatisation process has to be completed, even like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13293	The word has the mandated representative of the DSS MP Radmilo Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have here three amendments to the laws, which are actually extorted. For this law, adopted in 2001, the DSS voted. I was hearty about that law. I think the model is good, but the privatisation participants for the last three years haven't been very good, and that's why we had to make the additions and changes. I would not agree with the previous speaker - the professor if much of the remarks we spoke on the Privatisation Committee had not been adopted. As a matter of fact, all these objections were adopted through this view that the Agency was terminating the contract, not the court. All those objections that we have there, and we're discussing some over 100 companies, would have been resolved if this had been the case in the original law. What is extremely important is that in the amendment to the Privatisation Act, it is taxing that the contract will be terminated, so that there will be a lot of dilemmas with neither the buyer nor the Agency when proposing the termination of the contract. The objection that customers will be driven away by this attitude and will not be bought because the Agency will not stand because the Agency is terminating the contract, but does not take away the right of the buyer to prove in court that the Agency has not acted under this law and that it has fulfilled all the items that are within the law. It is named the capital representative who will manage the firm, if the buyer complains, until the final court's decision. This way we'll avoid what's going on, after I park my car in Masariko, there's no day there's no working there in front of a trade court that demonstrates and puts pressure on the court to end the trial as soon as possible. Workers are not looking for a trial to get them, they're looking to get rid of them. Simply, there are companies, such as "Venčac" from Arangelovac, which has not worked for nine months, and before privatisation he worked almost without loss and with about 500 marks of average salary. So, by this law, we're going to avoid all this, we're not going to have workers on the street, and we're going to save these privatized companies. I think this stance of the law will only seriousise customers, that non-serious buyers who bought a dozen businesses in Serbia give up such a way to continue buying. In this law, there is another newspaper, which is extremely good and which gives the opportunity to a correct buyer, who may not have initially predicted all the circumstances and who, when entering into the company's possession, saw that he could not meet all those items provided for by contract and law, that before the strikes started, before the company went down, he would find someone to whom both the contract and the company could continue to work. This will, of course, only apply to correct customers, who will see in time that they will not be able to do what is provided for in the contract. As for Mr Vlahovic's remarks that privatisation stopped last year, it did not stop just because of the government's inability, but we know for ourselves, of course it is not Mr Vlahovic's fault, that the best companies were sold in the first two years and that those companies were left uninteresting for customers. These are enterprises called medium and large enterprises, with over 1,500 to 3,000 employees, with surplus employees, and as such are not interesting for customers. Therefore, this law provides for the restructuring of these companies. This is one thing that will certainly improve privatisation and speed it up, because by firing debts to the state and working on the social programme, these companies will certainly be attractive to customers. What we have to do with these companies must be positive, because the Shamot company, which is the same from Arangelovac, has not yet been restructured, but is heading towards that path. Some customers are already picking up. Some Czechs are already coming to the Arangelian tomorrow to see. It's just that someone is going to buy this company because it has a market in this space and in metallurgy and in our energy. One more thing is important in these amendments to the Privatisation Act, where criminal measures are also foreseen for non-solid customers. I don't want to talk about amendments to the Privatization Act anymore, I'd like to say something about the Action Fund. It also notes that the state wants to take control of its stake in these companies, which are mostly privatised under the old Law on its own transformation, to take control and to enter into these companies. It is not the goal of either the Ministry or the Action Fund or the Government, but we know that during the previous period of action, small shareholders and packages in the Action Fund could not be sold because the directors did not want to give a prospectus. They simply blocked the further sale of these companies. What is characteristic of these companies that have been sold under the old law, that there and the assembly of shareholders and boards of directors are not at the will of these small shareholders, because management has made for themselves and management boards and congregations. No matter how badly these companies stood, management struggles to stay here as long as possible, because there is always opportunities, of course, not everything, but there is always the possibility of taking something from anyone's capital and passing into private capital. I think, as these amendments provide, the Action Fund has the right to control companies with 41 percent and perhaps more capital. This will not slow down the sale of these companies, because the control itself and the management itself will have to demand consent from the Agency and they will start to privatise, to bring out their stock on the stock market, and we will get rid of the action from the Action Fund faster. What's said here, the Charter of Values Act should change, and I think that's what Mr. Vlahovic said. Of course, from the last takeover of "Knjiz Miloš" we have seen that this law has its shortcomings, there will probably be a new law. At this point, it is important to make these changes so that the packages contained in the Pension Fund can go on the market and be sold through the tender. We know that only by applying the Charter of Values Act, which was transferred from the federal state to the Republic, that our stock market had stopped since September 2003 and that it had not worked until August 2004. If we were to wait now for the Charter Act to change from value to set, so would the Investment Fund and so on, I think it would keep us for another year, so the privatisation would be extended. I think that these changes and additions to the privatisation laws, the Action Fund and the securities of value will contribute to making privatisation faster, and that it will be more honorable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13295	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SPS, DS, G-17 plus, the SRS and the DSS. We move to a debate in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. I give my word to the MP Zivorad Smiljanic of the SPS parliamentary group, and let the MP Goran Knezevic of the DS be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13296	Dear MPs, the honourable minister, when President Kostunica was elected Prime Minister, I followed his speech specifically, especially that part concerning privatisation. He literally said then, when it comes to privatisation, it must be fair, it must be in favour of small shareholders and for the benefit of the state. Unfortunately, the DOS Privatisation Act is neither in favour of small shareholders nor in favour of the state. He was, unfortunately, in favour of the tycoon above all, who bought and for the benefit of those who sold the best companies with good commissions, and that time will show and prove that many, as one MP said, were well informed in that privatisation. Why the Privatisation Act, where 30% of the shares belong to workers, and 70% of the states sell, and 90% of the privatisation was transparent, transparent or staged. Today if you want to cancel and look at the contractual obligations, in 90% of the cases you can undo them because the result of poor privatisation is an army of people who have lost their jobs. So if it were a good privatisation and it was a capitalisation, as the Slovenians did, the workers wouldn't be out of a job. Unfortunately, this law is the DOS government, which was made by experts, and we know that of these experts in the government of 23, 19 never had a work book, and this is what Velja Ilic once made up nicely and said, so these experts invented a law that allowed the robbery of social property, and practically millions and billions were poured into private pockets. Here's just one example, I've taken it out several times, but I don't want to go back to it, and with us, Delta bought the Podunavlje for 400,000 marks. The Delta immediately sold 50 stores, and under the circumstances the brewers had good shares and 50 stores were sold for 1,700,000 euros. He's got a free house and a storage space left. If this law were to be applied fairly, then from the joint assets that Delta sold one-third belongs to those workers. Of the 1,700,000 euros, 500,000 were to be paid to workers. The workers didn't get anything. I'd like someone to prove to me that in one company, where 30% of the workers belonged under this law, what they got. Only in those companies that have privatised under our law have the workers become rich, according to our socialist, shareholder law. According to this, the 30% share immediately after half a year of accounting machining is reduced value, the halved shares and virtually did not get anything. I don't want to talk about it anymore and waste my time. There is another problem that is now the subject of privatisation in Vojvodina. It's a sale of combinations and social lands. We now have a situation in Vojvodina to sell the combined without making an identification of the country. They buy people where they don't know what's social and what's state land. The object of the sale is only social land, and it is in many combinations greater than 50%. Today when we sell the land, we had, recently I was in Bac, and the minister was, when one told him that Sokolac bought a Hungarian citizen, that pearl island in Vienna, and he bought an Arab. And what the Hungarians did: when 70% of the farmland was bought by Austrians, they passed the law to ban further land sales. What did the Romanians do? When this raid, democracy, the sale of the country, the Italians bought 300 euros a hectare in Romania. Now that the European Community has entered, the same country is worth 6,000 euros. "Matijević" whoever bought the cooperative -- he destroyed it, he fired all the workers and kept the land he was going to resell, and the rest he resold. We ask, and the minister, and in fact, the support of the SPS will be conditioned to turn the social country into a state and not allow us to sell any more to domestic tycoons or foreigners. We're the land we're selling today from our descendants, we don't have the right to sell them, we don't have the right to be farmers with new feudals, because Vojvodina is going to buy three tycoons and we're going to have a situation to have feudals again. We have to protect the country, because if the Slovenians had the courage to pass that law in 1991, the European Union had nothing to do with it. Therefore, I ask the Minister to make this a condition and that this law, which is that it must start with agriculture, which is related to privatisation, to suspend the sale of combinations, where there is no separate state and social country at all. Secondly, what's the difference between state and social? The state can't sell, and social services can. The country in Vojvodina is a national treasure. In the end, this Vojvodina, which for 50 years was practically the grain of the former Yugoslavia and social peace kept, for 50 years in that great Yugoslavia, at least in 10 years it fed us and kept us from starving when we were exposed. Therefore, it is one of the reasons why we must protect this country and ask the minister to make a statement. In the end, I'd like to say that we're all trying to complete the privatisation as soon as possible. This privatisation model, when it's over, and you're out, we're gonna have a million people on the street without a job. I've come under circumstances for the third time president of the Apatin municipality. Of all my jobs, it's the hardest thing for me to do is talk to people, citizens looking for jobs. People are hungry. People are bitter. People don't see any perspective. Regardless of what we're talking about, the increase in production, employment is nothing. There's a disaster amongst people. People are unhappy and trust me to bring together small shareholders, which is mass happening everywhere in Serbia, remember, will be the biggest movement: it will be the largest working class. It will be the strongest game in four years, because there will be over two million people in small shareholders, because that's the only way they see the possibility, when they get legal status, that they can sue tycoons and try to get something back. Finally, let me tell you -- in Serbia, Minister, now is the most popular song and the closest working class: "Get up, you starving slaves." People are really starving and people who have contact with people, and I'm talking to them as a doctor and as president of the community, they know that people are hungry, desperate, dissatisfied. The Serbian mentality is not like Hungarian. If the hooks and the disruptors rise, both by the tycoons and by those who have made it possible for them, I believe that many will not have time to escape from this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13297	Thank you. I apologize to my colleague Novakovic for the slight change in order. I would ask him to take the floor now and then prepare MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13298	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my ladies of the People's Parliament and the gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't feel well and it's not easy to talk after my fellow Smiljanic, because this kind of campeic carusel we listened to until five years ago, and that's why we're here today and that's why we're trying, we're fighting in the way we know it best and we know how to overcome the difficulties, to speed up privatisation and to already start living like the whole normal world. Of course everything needs to be speeded up. Because these are, these are the first two laws, I mean the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Privatization and the Action Fund, certainly very well-armed laws. I'd like to change them as often as possible, because life imposes such solutions and at such a rate that it's simply difficult, through legal acts, to follow. I am very pleased, personally, and also as chairman of the Privatisation Committee of this Honorary House, in essence, text and newspaper, which these two legislative proposals offer, and today I am not going to talk about amendments to the Law on the Market of Papers and other financial instruments, because this falls within the jurisdiction of other committees, but I am not happy because it is really a second step without the first. That's certainly not the government's fault. It is, of course, the first step called restitution, or as usual denationalisation, which has not been done. We're witnessing one attempt today, and I absolutely disagree with that model. But in that story, it is certainly a good thing that, listening to from more experienced colleagues, there has been no so far. And this is an extremely correct relationship and one respect and mutual recognition, which we have in play today, between the Privatisation Committee and the competent economy ministry, especially since Minister Predrag Bubalo led it. It is these amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, and as a consequence, amendments to the Act on the Action Fund were made to the suggestion of the Privatisation Committee, as Professor Stamenkovic already said, based on a report by a working group and the committee itself from June last year. Because by dealing with individual problems, we have managed to identify global problems and offer a solution. Of course, they're not all there. They are not because this work material of the Privatisation Committee had one necessary assumption, namely, it required the synchronised work of several ministries in the government and I am sorry that it did not happen. I believe that, last June, we had a minister, that literally all the committee's proposals would have been properly processed and entered and amended by other regulations, which certainly follow one country in transition, and especially the area of privatisation. What's good? It's a good thing a full transformation of the social capital contract was carried out in a year and a half. Today's contracts absolutely don't look like the original ones. They are much more precise and legally subdued, clearer and unequivocal. Well, anyway, we are going back to the problem of weak functioning of the system itself and the problems we have in an inefficient judiciary, and therefore a great solution has been proposed in the amendments to the Privatisation Act, which refers to the legal basis for the termination of the contract. The new legal institutes, which are introduced by this law, do exactly what privatisation itself is about, which is to improve quality and improve speed. We've been very slow so far. First of all, I'm referring to the conditional write-off of debts, I'm talking about the introduction of a capital agent institute, and I'm thinking about the possibility of a contract being settled. As for the social aspect of these changes, all of them, from 2001 to today, and all of us sitting here haven't done anything to educate shareholders, to educate shareholders. That's why the threat that one day the association of small shareholders will be some kind of political force simply doesn't stand. When people explain it, when they learn and understand what it means to be a small shareholder, who are powers, competences, or rights and obligations, believe that in a completely different way and think. Now, in the minds of ordinary people, there is a nightmare, and we meet with it every day, and I believe you do. The three-names or three-ways in the heads of workers, who appear on the one hand as workers, are then on the other hand the same people and small shareholders, and on the other hand there are some unionists and they deal with politics, not strictly with these three separate things in their personality, and it leads to one such confusion and one such nightmare. That's exactly where the reason and motive for all these mechanics outside and the big so-called. The stock market, or whatever you want, the value charter expert. To mention the famous Mr. Dragas, who is an eternal expert in all areas and many others, because by distracting already this strange people and citizens of Serbia in essence for small money, he collects some points, but I believe it is all a very short breath and it can't take long. So, these changes ahead of us today are, above all, essential character, and G17 plus today didn't purposely have its authorised representative, because we are afraid that, using that time of speech, we would take away the creamworth of everyone else to talk about the problems of privatisation, the key problems of any country in transition. Of course it's not all right and of course there's a lot of problems, but first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, I have to say, of course they're not all thieves and they're not all tycoons. There are no tycoons in Serbia. The tycoons are in Croatia. We've got new rich people and we've got all kinds of different people. I'm not going to use the term that's in my head right now. We've got these problems, but believe me, 10% of the privatisation is very problematic. There is another percentage of privatisation where companies are objectively in difficulty, but we still have a huge majority and a huge percentage where privatisation shows its positive character. Accelerating in this direction, we are facing these amendments and additions to the Privatization Act and absolutely believe that by voting for them, which the G17 plus party will certainly do, you can't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13299	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic, after which Mr. Minister, a proposing representative, and after Mr. Minister, MP Slavoljub Matic, if we reach 17.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a little surprised this debate started out this mildly. I think the citizens of Serbia are far more dissatisfied with the situation in privatisation today than they could be heard from this debate so far. I am convinced that what was proposed in this law is not even 10% of what was meant to enter the amendments and additions of the Privatisation Act. For more than a year, the current government has had opportunities to make changes. With that promise, she received a number of votes and unfortunately these changes you suggested I consider more cosmetic. I believe that, looking ahead, even the process of restructuring these changes can become very problematic in the next period. I'll talk about it a little later. It seems to me that all the privatisation needed to solve in these three years behind us, primarily the inflow of capital from foreign investments, new technologies, the opening of new markets, and even entrepreneurial knowledge, we do not have today or to the greatest extent we do not have and that in almost every one of these areas we can realize that this law and the process itself have failed. What may be the biggest problem, these are new jobs, which were promised when we entered the privatisation process, these are bigger salaries, higher productivity and more production, and in privatised companies there is no such thing today and there is great dissatisfaction among Serbian citizens. True, it is not only privatisation itself because of the poor situation in the Serbian economy and the great dissatisfaction of citizens, but also the poor economic policy, above all, in the macro-economic part, fiscal, monetary, and also credit; excessive and unnecessary liberalisation of the market, imports of everything and everything, have added to our economy and brought us all into a situation that we live worse and that we are increasingly unsatisfactory. The government and the Ministry of Economy were supposed to go before MPs, above all, with a complete analysis of everything that has happened so far in the privatisation process. Unfortunately, she's gone. This should have been primarily a qualitative analysis, which estimates how many jobs we lost during the privatisation process, not how privatised the company has been so far. The number of privatized companies is not so important. If you look at the financial effects, they're not as good as they are. Privatisation was not supposed to be done to fill the budget, as it happens today, but above all to get, as I just said, new jobs, possibly new technologies, and increase production compared to what we had. Too many, when it comes to privatisation, are talking about quantitative indicators. Very little is said of those who show the right picture of privatisation. Based on the theory of analysis, with which the government was to come out in any case, we were only able to talk about new concepts and amendments to the Privatisation Act based on this analysis. Perhaps a new strategy, because so far, I do not think it has been, or in such a way that confidence in privatisation is restored, which is obviously lost in the citizens of Serbia. Of all the things that should have been entered into this bill, and I said that not one tenth of it had entered, I would say that it was necessary, and before we went faster on these changes to restructure businesses, to identify those companies that are of strategic importance for the Serbian economy, which should be the backbone of the Serbian economy and the long-term depreciation in the transition process, according to the SRS proposal. That's not what happened. We have proposed to only 49% of these strategic enterprises in privatisation to offer that capital. It may be a dozen, twenty companies, and normally we didn't think of more companies, but these companies are very important for scientific and technological development, and at least to preserve these technological and scientific capacities that we currently have. I said already, if there were any good will, the ministry would have gone to the MPs with one full analysis, with a rank list or by sections, we could see which privatisations, from now on around 1,200, were successfully implemented, which were unsuccessful. The Ministry should have allowed those entrepreneurs, those owners who had improved the work of businesses, perhaps more favourable loans, privileged positions with the Development Fund, to enable them to increase the number of jobs as proven businessmen, because the quality and success of privatisation should be measured urgently by the number of new jobs, not by financial impact in the privatisation process itself. We have so far had no insight into who our customers are, what the intention of these customers is when they register for auctions and tenders. Obviously, through this new legal solution, there must have been some way for these customers to even approach business plans, if it's hard to explain, if it's hard to evaluate them. They should have been forced in some ways to show good will, to preserve production in these companies. I think the Privatisation Agency, as well as the Ministry, has been completely put aside by the unions. Trade unions could play a serious role in the process of controlling the privatisation so far. I'd like to talk about control later. I think it's completely skipped in this law, which is the most important segment of the law and represents what we in the SRS expected to see first and foremost in the amendments to this law. The buyer, in our opinion, should, without reprogramming, and obligation to the state, obligations to workers, settle in the first year after buying. We don't have that by now. The workers are very often deceived. You're giving the company a chance to buy for six wars. The buyer pays off the first war and then often alienates property, such as the July 7th case from Kursumlia. You still can't give a customer a subpoena, and he goes into one store every day, sells it, distributes that company, and of course puts the money in his pocket. He'll pick himself up, he'll leave the moment he fills his pockets, and you still won't be able to hand him a court order for the first hearing. You should have avoided this purchase in six years of war because you have no guarantee that you have any serious buyers in front of you or should have given them that opportunity through any control of your purchases so far. There are major auction problems repeated three or four times, allegation that labour stock has not yielded results. It seems to me, if we really were to carry out the necessary analysis of the auctions so far, that a large part of the owner would not deserve to be called a safe buyer and that this finding of yours does not stand. There's a big problem with bank guarantees. Customers advocate newly purchased companies, i.e. purchased companies, as owners become and are held after the first paid war, are mortgaged and receive bank guarantees. Then, the work of trade courts, but there will be opportunities, will be spoken later. I'd say in the end what's most important about this law, and that's control. We haven't had any control so far. You have not treated this control in any way in the proposal for this law, in amendments and additions. The Privatisation Agency controllers depend entirely on the buyer, on the new owner, and the whole process of control is that you go to the customer, sit across from him and he dictates what suits him, and you have no real insight into the real state of the company, and it is very bad co-operation with the remaining inspections that could help control the privatisation itself. It is obvious that so far you have not shown the will to exercise more serious control over these years and something, since the new government took over the Ministry of Economy and took responsibility for the privatisation process. And what may be the biggest problem in this law is the fact that in restructuring, you've left a lot of opportunities for future customers to be abused because you haven't solved the audit problem, the audit houses that deliver fake reports. If we consider that from year to year, as privatisation moves away, an increasing percentage of the price is actually carried out through investments, I think that in 2004 about 70% of the price was made through investments, there is a great possibility of abuse, because this bill was meant to go to law that solves problems, accounting and audit laws. Unfortunately, you didn't suggest it, and if you don't suggest it urgently, we'll have a chance to see another robbery of social property through restructuring. There will be an opportunity to talk through the amendments about the other laws, the securities market and the Action Fund. All in all, in the end, I have to say in front of the SRS MPs that what is proposed is really minimal, that it is insufficient and that it will not significantly improve the quality of the privatisation that has been done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-17-0.u13301	As I've informed you, because of the large number of committees today's session ends at 1700 hours. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 81(4), due to the importance of the laws on the agenda, we continue our work Monday at 10.00 hours. At the beginning of the session, Minister Bubalo will speak to us. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 156 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Vladimir Milentijevic, Velimir Stanojevic, Nikola Novakovic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Goran Svilanovic, Zivodarka Dacin and Marko Djurisic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the market of paper from the value and other financial institutions (joint principle search with points 2 and 3) before I give the word to the MPs who are in charge, please, session of the Legislative Committee will be held today on 21 March 2005, starting at 13.45 p.m., in a small hall. The People's Messenger Goran Knezevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic be prepared.
