ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23738	The eighth session of the Second Regular Session on 8 December 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 11.25 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I ask you to begin by establishing the presence of the MPs in the O.R. We'll just wait for all the MPs to settle in. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 129 MPs. There is no notice that the sittings were prevented from being attended by some of the MPs. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the act in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You were presented with records of the Fifth and Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, based on Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 November 2005. For 129, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 November 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 21 November 2005. For 129, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 21 November 2005. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate. The government proposed that the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republika Srpska budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade in profit tax in 2006, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. Three out of 132 MPs voted for 129. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this motion for an emergency procedure. A group of 21 MPs proposed that the draft law on the property of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 November 2005, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. For 24, against 28, a abstentioned one, did not vote 79, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this motion for an emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the law on public debt of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda on the urgent procedure on the basis of the commitments made by the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees under outstanding pensions and fines, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. For 128, they did not vote four out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this motion for an emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the law on public debt of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda following the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. For 128, they did not vote four out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this motion for an emergency procedure. The government proposed by letter of 1 December 2005 that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection and Social Security Security of Citizens, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2005, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. For 130, they did not vote two out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this motion for an emergency procedure. The government proposed, by letter dated 1 December 2005, that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Financial Support to the Family with Children, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. For 129, two of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted an emergency procedure proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank, the project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure -- Serbia-Montenegro, which submitted to the National Assembly on 2 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. For 128, they didn't vote three out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this motion for an emergency procedure. A group of 22 MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the right to health and the right to life of Mr Slobodan Milosevic, former president of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 2 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote for an emergency procedure. For 21 against 99, 12 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees under outstanding pensions and fines; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on social protection and ensuring the social security of citizens and the draft law amending and supplementing the law on family financial support with children (points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 128, they didn't vote three out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Two out of 131 MPs voted for 129. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in profit tax in 2006, which the government submitted (number 400-2814/05 of 2 December 2005), 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, submitted by the Government (number 400-2811/05 of 2 December 2005), 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, which the Government has submitted (number 400-2812/05 of 2 December 2005), 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 18-2744/05 of 25 November 2005, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children, which was submitted by the Government (number 553-2739/05 of 24 November 2005), 6. Proposal for a mortgage law submitted by the Government (number 430-2407/05 of 17 October 2005), 7. Imitation, Resolvement, and Selection of Legal Officers, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure - Serbia-Montenegro), which was submitted by the government (number 400-2813/05 since 2 December 2005). We move to work according to established agenda. I am authorising Vice President Vojislav Mihailovic to continue holding the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Allocation of TRANSFER RESISTANCES FROM THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE PARTICIPATION OF COMMUNITY, CITY AND THE CITY OF BELEGRAD IN 2006. YEARS
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23740	You've received a bill from the government. Repeat for every case where we have stopped, item 1 of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2006 Before the opening of a principled search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I'm setting a five-minute break until the finance minister arrives, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. [[After break 11,50]] We're continuing our work. I have one suggestion for the MPs, so they can plan their time, informing them it won't work tomorrow. I assume the MPs' groups gave a list of speakers. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23742	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as every year, here, the finance ministry has proposed a law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2006. Before I say what concrete solutions have been applied here, I have to say that throughout the year we have had a very useful and live discussion with representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, since the goal is to carry out fiscal decentralization as soon as possible. Three are the key laws that need to provide fiscal decentralisation. First, it is the Public Debt Act, which the Ministry of Finance has proposed, and this assembly adopted this year, which then allows municipalities a far greater possibility of borrowing, but thus the Ministry of Finance controls the use of these funds, and, of course, there are appropriate restrictions so that this level of public debt does not increase too much. Another key law on fiscal decentralisation is the law on the property of local self-government. As you know, the Ministry of Finance has in principle backed this law. We thought there were some shortcomings that could be addressed by amendments. Since the law has not entered the emergency procedure, we have time to work on it together, work it out, but definitely the Ministry of Finance feels that local property should belong to local self-government. In the talks and with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, we highlighted this position, with some provisions in the law not in line with the Council of Europe and the principles that apply in the EU. We've had a few objections from the Ministry of Finance itself. Principlely, the law is very necessary, but it needs to be completed. I am sure that together, MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, will make additional efforts in the coming period to make one quality law. Finally, the third law key to fiscal decentralisation is the law on funding local self-government. As you remember, a year ago we said that, as far as the finance ministry is concerned, the criteria for the distribution of transfer funds in the existing law are not adequate and that we are ready to hear the objections of people from local self-government how to change these criteria. When it began to change the criteria at the beginning of this year, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities were involved in the work at the beginning of this year, which led the whole process, meaning representatives of local self-government but also representatives of the Ministry of Finance. There has been a conclusion that there is no point in the current law only changing criteria, but that a whole new and comprehensive law should be made to regulate this area. Then, about the third quarter of this year, a few months ago, the law model ended. We have done a test of this law and have come to the conclusion that it is not possible to apply it since 1 January 2006 for several reasons. First, the 2006 budget memorandum was adopted before, and then the amount of transfer funds for local self-government was fixed in the 2006 draft budget. Thirdly, because the redistribution of funds from large cities to smaller municipalities, which is just and necessary, in this model was made in the opinion of the majority in the government and too abruptly and radically. But in the end, as finance minister, I said, if the municipalities themselves and the Permanent Conference of Cities agree on these criteria, we don't care how these funds are distributed. But it was not realistic to start applying that law from January 1st next year. That is why we have taken the obligation to amend the law that already exists in the draft and to propose to the Assembly for adoption in the second quarter of next year. It means that we have passed a law, which would then have been applied since 1 January 2007. Earlier, additional efforts need to be made at the level of local self-government to rationalise operating costs, primarily profit spending, given that this year's biggest salary increase in Serbia, in the state sector, was at local self-government levels, around 30% of Serbia's total. Of course, this structure varies from municipality to municipality, some municipalities were more modest, they took care of savings more, some did not take care of it. That's why in the Budget Act for next year, we adopted a member who envisions a 9% wage limit relative to the level of earnings paid in October for September of this year, and I'm talking about the level of mass earnings. As far as the bill is concerned, it will provide for certainty in the revenues of local self-government, because the law will set out exactly the amount of funds that will be allocated each year to local self-government, which will be distributed according to precisely established criteria, so that there will be no more need than next year for these specific laws to be passed. In other words, the proposal for a Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities, which is generally acceptable to us, is to determine that 1% of gross domestic products are meant for the transfer of municipalities, which means that they will not have to be determined arbitrarily each year, but as the social gross product moves - 1% of it goes to municipalities, so we have a certainty in transfers. As for the criteria, they should show whether to redistribute from large cities to smaller municipalities is done as radically as the Permanent Conference has suggested, or to make some adjustments. I'll give you an example. If a proposal for a Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities and their criteria were adopted, the following thing would happen: the Municipality of Alexandrovac or the Municipality of Žabari would have three times more funds in the following year than in this year, which is fair, but therefore far less resources would have municipalities such as Kragujevac, Sremska Mitrovica and all the central municipalities of Serbia, without talking about large cities, such as Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis, where the funds would be significantly reduced. Personally, I think that in the future it should go towards the budget, which is intended for local self-government, focusing primarily on poorer and smaller municipalities, because they cannot make a large income from profit tax, and that large cities are focusing more and more on their own incomes, because they have a more significant income from profit tax. The only problem is it can't be done in a year. That is why in this bill, in agreement with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, we have proposed the following distribution of funds: that four cities -- Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac -- transfers increase by only 4% compared to transfers made this year and that all other municipalities in Serbia increase 20%, exactly 19.9%. So the transfer funds to municipalities this year amounted to 13.8 billion dinars. The 2006 budget is intended for 15.4 billion, which is an increase of around 11.7%. Our proposal is to meet fiscal decentralisation, by giving up one piece of income for the benefit of other municipalities. So, cities will only have an increase of 4% next year, although the average increase in transfers is 11%, and all other municipalities are growing by 20%, and the exact percentage is 19.9; so 20% if we round it up. The idea, given in this law, is that all of these transfers are growing linearly, and that in the first half of the following year a special law on the financing of local self-government, which will also have a sum of funds that are determined each year by local self-government, so 1% of gross domestic product, and some other parameters that are important. I would mention some of these parameters, they are contained in this, I mean a very good proposal of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, which is to carry out such fiscal decentralisation that the property tax becomes the original income of local self-government, which means that local self-government would introduce it by its decision, but maximum to the rate established by law. Therefore, the Assembly would have the law on the financing of local self-government to determine the maximum tax on property, and each municipality would individually have the right to determine the rate of whatever it wants, but maximum to the amount of this ceiling to be determined by law. So municipalities would be able to attract investments in their municipalities through different rates of property tax. On the other hand, no one would have the right to raise above some amount prescribed by the law. At the same time, we plan to transfer one part of Serbia's tax administration to the level of local self-government, because we want to change, among other things, the Property Tax Act and the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since 1 January 2007, therefore, in a year's time, the tax administration would only deal with the collection of republican revenues, while local tax administrations in the composition of cities and municipalities would be established, which would be far more motivated to collect, above all, property taxes, because one good part of the facilities is not recorded today in many local self-governments and municipalities are losing some of the income. Secondly, they would be completely competent to collect self-dependence. Therefore, local tax administrations would deal with the collection of local taxes, and the Republic Tax Administration would charge only republican revenues. This is a real step towards fiscal decentralisation. There is also a proposal that revenues from selling the property of local self-government will be revenues from the local self-government budget. So far more resources would go this way to local self-government. However, what is the problem that some representatives of municipalities have in understanding fiscal decentralisation. Many think fiscal decentralisation means more money to local self-government and the same size of business. But that's not true. Fiscal decentralisation means more money to local self-government, but more work, more obligations and responsibilities. If this is understood by local self-government, or fiscal decentralisation, then I warn all representatives of the municipalities in advance to know what has been waiting for them since 1 January 2007 -- more money, but far more obligations. I think most of the responsible representatives in the local self-government, the representatives of the citizens, are ready to assume that commitment and responsibility. It's a real fiscal decentralisation. Since the next year is a transition in that sense, we are already taking a step towards moving transfers from cities to smaller municipalities. The municipalities get 20%, and the cities only get 4%. A few days ago, we had a meeting, and it turns out that some municipalities, according to our current law, will get significantly more than they will have under the law that the municipalities themselves propose. For example, the Municipality of Apatin. Apatin will have 20 million dinars of more transfer funds under this law than you would have if we had already passed a fiscal decentralisation law. An example of the Jagodin municipality; with this 20% increase, it will have about as much resources as it would have had if we had passed a new law. However, small municipalities, such as the Frogs, Svrljig, the Vlasotins are damaged by the fact that this law has not already been passed. Of course, Bosilegrad and all the small municipalities are damaged. But on the other hand, Novi Sad would have 370 million dinars less, Belgrade two billion dinars less, Kragujevac 180 million dinars less. It is clear that for next year, conditions have not yet matured to make such a radical cut, although municipalities such as the Frog, the Alexandrovac, would have almost three times as many. I think it's fair to make that redistribution. The question is, can it be so sharp in such a short period of time? This bill is ultimately supported by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, to make 20% of municipalities and 4% of cities for this year, and then to prepare for 2007 and the following year, that it will be a sharper redistribution. If this assembly adopts the proposal, which will surely be proposed by the Ministry of Finance, along with the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, the annual law on the distribution of transfer funds to cities and municipalities would no longer be adopted. This could be the last time the Serbian Parliament adopts an annual law on the distribution of transfer funds, as the Law on the financing of local self-government will stand: 1% of gross domestic products go to transfers. So there's no need for it to be determined arbitrarily. You'll know what the gross domestic product is and 1% of it goes to transfers. The criteria will be in law, there is no need for the Assembly to vote on the amounts of funds themselves, because the criteria will automatically define these amounts. It will also know how much of the income tax goes to local self-government. Simply, there's no need to keep confirming these amounts. Now I'd like to say something more, except for what is crucial already said about this law that is before you. As for next year, the total revenues of local self-government for 2006 were planned at 112.6 billion dinars, which is compared to the total revenues of local self-government in 2005, estimated at 100.7 billion, growth of 11.8%. In doing so, greater growth is planned for local self-government - in municipalities 20% growth and 4% for cities, as I said. Budget transfers will not be the main source of income to local self-government, as they were not this year. The basic source of income will continue to be assets based on the income tax. A total of 36.7 billion dinars are expected to be revenues next year, which will belong to local self-governments, as well as revenues based on property tax, which are planned at 17 billion dinars. Third in a row are transfers with 15.4 billion dinars. The first two incomes -- income tax and property tax -- will give a total of 48% of all municipality incomes in general. Of course, it's distributed differently. Cities have far higher incomes based on these two taxes, while smaller local self-governments will have far greater income than the transfers they receive from the budget. The payout dynamics are exactly the same as this year. As you know, the budget regularly and in time served its obligations, no later than 25 in the month for the current month. We're not too late once. This has contributed, among other things, to local self-government in the first 11 months of its 7.9 billion dinar accounts, with the largest surplus reached in Belgrade and Novi Sad. Belgrade about five billion, Novi Sad billion dinars for the first 11 months. The rest represents a surplus of other cities and municipalities. That is why it is only fair to redistribute these transfers to smaller municipalities in Serbia in the coming period, in the medium term. Also, this law determines that the rate of participation of municipalities and cities in profit tax, achieved on their territory, is 40%. So, same as this year. The paper in the law, compared to previous versions of the law, is that local self-government is required to provide funds in the field of education in its budget in accordance with Article 143. The law on the basis of the education and education system, as regards obligations which fall under the burden of the unit of local self-government. As you know, the Law establishing a system of education and training of local self-government is required to care for primary and secondary schools. They are also required to take care of the cost of different awards to teachers in schools, as well as to deal with appropriate investment maintenance. The law provides that if the local self-government unit does not provide those funds in accordance with the law, on a proposal from the restoring Ministry of Education and Sports, transfer funds from the municipality budget can be suspended temporarily. This is a member who, together, has been installed by the Minister of Education and I, as Minister of Finance, on a proposal from all representative trade unions of education. So, the education unions insisted on this provision, and it is clear that large cities and municipalities that do not comply regularly do not have any justification for that. If they can raise their salaries 30%, and they don't have the money to pay for schools in municipalities, there's something wrong. We only have understanding for smaller municipalities, which have a more difficult material position. If they have problems, they will be able to address additional appropriations from the budget for these purposes. Also, while we were working on the draft budget, we also received a proposal from the Regional Secretariat for Regulations, Administration and National Minorities, that in the municipalities where bilingualism exists, where documents are made in two languages, there are higher costs. It is estimated that 36 municipalities in Vojvodina require an additional 30 million dinars of funds in a year to cover these costs. In agreement with Mr. Loncar, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, we agreed to provide these 30 million dinars for 36 municipalities in Vojvodina, in order to provide coverage of these costs based on this need which is entirely justified. This will be done by the local self-government budget fund, which is estimated to be around 300m dinars this year, next year, since gambling revenues will go on a continuous basis, and will be even higher. So other than these 5.4 billion dinar funds, municipalities can count on at least 300 million dinars from the budget fund for gambling. Based on these costs for municipalities where bilingualism exists in Vojvodina, 30 million dinars. The rest will be allocated to smaller municipalities, which do not have enough funds for investments, according to criteria set by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. And this law, as well as the laws adopted by this assembly ten days ago, on the budget, enable more and more funds to be used in municipalities and cities for investment, and to use less and less for wages in the administration. It is simply inadmissible that the budget funds of the large-scale municipality are used for the salaries of the administration and that little remains for the investment. We have to make a cut there. This year, on the one hand, we give more to smaller municipalities -- 20%, but we demand, as the Republic government, that rationalization be carried out. After all, there is this restriction that will force the municipal authorities to seriously consider the need to rationalise the administration. If they fail to rationalise, it is clear that salaries will grow far less than in any other sector in the economy or state next year. So there is a choice, which we were otherwise imposed on last year and public enterprises, and this year. Thanks to this, significant rationalisation has been carried out in public enterprises -- 20,000 people are less in the basic activities of public enterprises, precisely because of the 9% wage caps we have adopted. Next year, due to the highest wage growth in local self-government, we will allow for the lowest growth in next year, 9% is a limit, for public enterprises 10.3%, and the highest will be in health care. We promised, together with representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, that the model of the law, something groomed, would be on their behalf and the Ministry of Finance proposed to the Assembly in the first half of the following year. Until then, a step towards fiscal decentralisation will be the adoption of this law on the distribution of transfer funds to cities and municipalities for next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23743	Thank you. The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23744	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a seemingly short, clear and simple law. However, I am sure that most of us MPs express an exceptional interest in the proposal for a law on the deployment of transfer funds and that it also has an impact on the overall functioning of local communities, local congregations, cities and municipalities. I would like to start with several basic indicators that are also highlighted in Mr. Minister's explanation and in the very proposal for the text of the law. Today, we have a situation that total revenues in the budgets of all municipalities in Serbia will be around 112 billion and 600 million dinars. That is approximately, compared to the Republic budget planned for 2006, one quarter. When you look further at the revenues of local communities, then you see that incomes based on profit tax are participating with 36.7 billion dinars, income based on assets of 17 billion and revenues based on transfer funds of 15 billion and 400 million dinars. We have defined this amount of 15.4 billion in the 2006 budget and that is not disputed. When you add these three items together, you see in the total revenues of local communities that it is 69 billion and 100 million and that it represents over 62% of the total income that local congregations and municipalities and cities provide for financing activities in their area. Unfortunately, we still have a situation today that the proposal on the distribution of transfer funds has been delivered to us without extending the criteria we spoke of and when we adopted this law in 2005 and in early 2004 when we also passed this law. All of you, and for the sake of the public, I want to remind myself of a few criteria that actually formed these starting bases, which served as a basis for increasing 19.9% for local communities, without cities, or 4% compared to 2005 for cities. I'm sure you've been able to read these criteria, but here I remind you that basically this proposal covers several criteria, such as the area of the municipality in square kilometers, the number of residents, the number of primary schools, the number of primary schools, the number of secondary schools, the number of secondary schools, children's protection, so the number of children covered by that child protection, physical culture, social protection and entrusted jobs. There are several problems that I have been talking about here even when the previous laws are passed on this subject. It is my belief that this number of criteria and this type of criteria, both in quality and in essence, is not enough to have something that, I am quite sure, represents a requirement for all of us, a balanced regional development of all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because it does not include any other criteria which are and how important for the transfer funds schedule. Transfer funds are participating with 14% in the total revenues of local communities and it is certainly not enough for what these local communities should do in the interests of the population and people living in the area of these municipalities. What criteria, in my opinion, should be covered by such a law, including by the law announced by Mr. Minister, by the law on the financing of local self-government? We must, first of all, keep in mind the general level of development of all municipalities. This general level of development can be established on the basis of two criteria. One is a gross social product per capita that is achieved in the area of a particular municipality, and the other is somewhat closer, national income per capita, which is realised in certain municipalities. We are not all economically developed, and it is quite certain that we have drastic differences in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the size of each municipality. So there is no rule of a large municipality - a high social gross product, i.e. high national income per capita; and vice versa - a small municipality - a small gross social product, a small national income per capita. There are even more frequent reverse cases that large municipalities per population and per area achieve these values in amounts that do not exceed half the Republic average. It is therefore very important to include these criteria in the future law on the financing of local communities, in order to make the law fair, while at the same time developing incentives for all these environments. What else is missing? The number of employees in the area of a municipality speaks of how much tax can be made on the basis of the earnings made by these employees in their businesses. Because, as you know, in this law it is said, 40% of that tax collected in the area of a municipality belongs to the local community. Then it's quite clear that it doesn't matter what the average profit is in the area of a municipality. I can tell you about the Loznica case. If there is an average of 16,500 dinars in Serbia, there are 8200 dinars in Loznica, so only one half of that amount. I'm sure many of you come from environments that have just as low averages. When you apply these 40% of the income tax to such low earnings in the area of the municipality you live in, then you get revenues in the municipal budget that are not enough to meet the needs of these citizens, which, due to reduced income, live very hard and poorly. Then take, say, the number of unemployed in the area of one municipality. I'm going to tell you again the example of Loznica. He's got 11,000 employees and 16,000 unemployed. Unfortunately, since 2000, the number has increased from 10,000 to 16,000 and then these 11,000 who are employed, as a rule in the state administration, in health care, in education, in state institutions, should support these 16,000 unemployed and plus those who are in the status of minors, so children and old, old people and people who live by the rule of agricultural households of the elderly. You have to consider, all of these are suggestions for future law, the state of infrastructure in the area of one municipality. If you have an extremely spacious municipality, then you also have an extremely pronounced problem with handling the infrastructure in the area of the municipality. For me here, the roles of the Ministry of Capital Investment and the Ministry of Economy are very important. Why? Because they must, through their activities, replace objectively with all these municipalities, which cover a vast space with a relatively small number of inhabitants per square kilometre, what is allocated to individual divisions through budgets each year. In this place, correctness works, I must commend Mr. Velju Ilic, Minister of Capital Investment, who understands this problem started many activities in the entire Serbia's space. We are witnessing that almost every part of Serbia, in every municipality, regardless of its size, but primarily bearing in mind the state of roads and local infrastructure, is working and building. Whether to reconstruct the path, whether to build any bridges, etc., all of this is present and deserves praise. But it's not enough, because if you have the Ministry of Economy, or for agriculture, then you have to understand that the vast municipalities, especially those that have mainly agricultural activity, have the need for all possible, starting with Polish roads, to enable them to enter these fields, to process them in a proper and quality way, to provide adequate subsidies, incentives, etc., bearing in mind this real, objective, economic position of the population living in the area of that municipality. The existing criteria damage the state of space. If you had a high school with a certain number of departments, then this way of distribution makes it impossible for you to think about development in terms of opening new high schools, with some new and other interests in relation to existing, or the number of primary schools, or the number of kindergartens. This way of disbursing funds without any doubt is not good. I accept the argument that this is a transitional year in 2006 in which we have to do the criteria, but through the criteria then come to the law, by suggesting one thing here. When that law works, it's not enough to just deliver it in writing. We simply have to do one model, what it will look like by applying the criteria of this new law on the financing of local communities, which we here in the Assembly are going to adopt. And from which other funds, subsidies, incentives, loans, etc. enabling us to replace what the new law on local communities and their funding cannot help these local communities. Now a few sentences about the laws that matter, and they're about this law. We have, we have passed the Law on Public Debt, made it possible for local communities to be in charge, to build facilities and infrastructures, and thus to employ this work-worthy and unemployed population in the area of these municipalities, to build facilities that are of interest and importance to the quality of life of these citizens. But local congregations today have this problem that they cannot effectively and quickly enter these affairs, since they do not have the proper assets on which they could lend a mortgage or a pledge right to use these loans. That's why a law on the property of local self-government is necessary. Not a law that will be proposed by the Permanent Conference of Cities or a group of MPs, but a law that will be proposed by the Government, which will, above all, bear in mind the overall problem under the property of the local community and this so-called regional even development that we advocate. When I mention the word regional even development, then the law on property, and the law on the financing of local communities, must also follow the law on regional development. It must follow, and it seems pointless to me, we must consider this in the package at one session of the Assembly: the property law, the law on the financing of local communities and the law on the even or regional development of these local communities and Serbia as a whole. Only then can we understand how in the future we will finance certain functions and activities of local communities in certain environments, i.e. in all environments and cities across Serbia. One member here has been threatened by local communities that they will be deprived of funds unless they provide the necessary amounts in their budgets to finance certain functions in the field of education. From what I understand, this is about material costs and it is a burden for local communities. Salaries, employee earnings and auxiliary staff are part of the cost financed from the republican budget. But it's not the same story for all the municipalities. It is understood that the city of Belgrade must and can fulfil those obligations as a whole. There are poor municipalities, I think over 30 of them, perhaps at this point and over 50, which will have and how big a problem that sets out funds from its budgets that will allow these so-called material costs to be financed in education. It is not a small threat when the transfer funds are threatened to be denied if the local assembly has not done what it has done under the law and under the agreement of Ministers Dinkic and Vuksanovic as a liability. It is also said here that income from the property is the original revenues of local congregations, but look, 17 billion dinars in a total of 112 billion dinars of public spending generated through local communities belong to the property tax. What does that mean? This tax is not enough, and even worse, in poor municipalities the value of the property is even less than in the rich environments. When you collect a tax on property, which is of little importance or small value, then you have income in the budget, you have a double problem. You belong to the assets, but on the basis of this property, you cannot generate revenue that would compensate for the lack of transfer funds or some other funds that will be channelled for certain activities of local communities. It is a general trend in Serbia and it is a good sign that most local parliaments these days, and as far as December 20th, will bring budgets that will be more developed compared to 2005. They will include those activities concerning the construction of infrastructure and capital facilities. But you must not forget that all of us are planning our local budgets, among other things, are also planning debt-based incomes, not based on the real incomes that we will make in our budget by these three items, profit tax, profit tax participation 40%, property tax and transfer money. When it comes to the property law, I draw attention to the promoters that we will have quite practical problems here. Please, in 1995, for known reasons, it was simply a single legal provision to transfer all property located in the area of certain municipalities to the state, or to the Republic of Serbia. We can't go in the opposite direction now by making one move and saying this is coming back. Why can't we? Because first of all, we have to write down that property, see what that property is, what the value of that property is, who the previous owners are, who this property is essentially owned to, and how that property is financed. I'm undermining the word funded. It is sometimes funded by state resources, sometimes by local community funds, but sometimes by the means of citizens living in the area of a certain local community or municipalities through self-dependence, thus building hundreds of miles of water, sewers, pipelines, heat pipelines, which is not the case with the homes of culture. And with this bill of law that we had in the procedure, so fortunately removed from the emergency procedure, we have foreseen the right of local parliaments to alienate these assets and that property, and this previous question has not been regulated who will be and how they will be compensated and whether citizens who have paid for self-dependence, start from electricity, road, sewerage, plumbing, telephony, will be able to get something else in return. If we can't repay them personally, then we'll be able in the area of a certain local community, say the home of a culture, which nobody now cares about because it's in state property, it's failing, the municipalities don't have in budgets to renovate these homes, the Republic doesn't intend to renovate them, the citizens live next to homes they can't use, roofs fail, rain, etc., and they built it out of self-dependence. Here you have to delicately, complexly get into the whole problem and make a package of laws. Repeated at the very end: the law on the financing of the local community, the law on regional development and the law on the property of local communities. That's the only way we can get the right picture of where we are and where we're going in this direction. And, of course, that everything that is in the laws is defined, when the 2007 budget is worked out, is installed as appropriate budget items in certain sections and therefore possibly neutralise and weaknesses of so-called laws, because there is no ideal solution to this problem. All in all, we will accept this law with this explanation, but in 2006, it is definitely the last year that can be called the transitional year. We have a deadline for local congregations here, and that's all I insist on, I'm not getting into the amount of funds that local congregations have won, because it's not enough for anyone. I'm absolutely sure it's normal for the presidents of cities or municipalities when they made the criteria had good intentions, and when they saw that they screwed up on their own, I apologize for this expression, then they said, no, that's not true, please don't do that, because imagine, as the president of the municipality, I suggested criteria that give me less than I've ever received. That means they're not good promoters, and they can say they're not even authorized proposings, and that's what someone who knows the job should do. And that job is known to the competent ministries, professional people, and this National Assembly must also receive quality suggestions. Since it's time for local parliaments to bring budgets to the 20th, we don't have time to postpone this story from the point of view of adoption, except for some amendments that are likely to be accepted, but we certainly can't allow in the future to have only a linear increase of funds without applying these criteria that I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23745	The word is from the MP Sava Urosevic, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23746	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before this meeting the third draft law on transfer funds to local self-government. The model is the same as last year, but given the trend observed in our country, little has come back to the model of the law that was for 2004 and cited the advantages of such a single model of law compared to 2004, i.e. the first moments of decentralisation of the funding of local self-government, because the funds that are transferred or allocated by share in the income tax are increasing the total transfer funds to local self-governments. In recent years in Serbia, we have a higher salary growth than a social product. It is therefore a good thing that the financing of local self-government is more part of salaries as a basis than the sales tax which was one of the components by 2004 and was a corrective factor in 2004. To support that with numbers. In 2004, local self-government returned practically 4.2% of total salaries paid, or 30% of 14%, which is tax, which is 4.2%. In this year's bill that local self-government returns 40% of citizens' income tax, that's 5.6%. So we already have one increase in numbers, and given the fact that I already pointed out that wages grow faster than domestic products, then we can conclude that this is also one improvement in favour of local self-government. We can see from the data given in the reasons of the law that the funds that come back from the republican level to local self-government are somewhere on average – although I always say that the average is sometimes good, and sometimes not, and we know about the story of grandfather and grandson, and we know how much he can seduce us – is 46.3% of the funds, are realised in the budgets of local self-government, these are funds that come back from the level of the Republic, and that's 14%, so it's about the transfer funds and the difference to 46% is the funds that are related to the percentage of participation in the income tax of citizens. A significant item in the incomes of local self-government is property tax, so I'd like to say something about it too. Just now, a colleague, a previous speaker, said that the tax is not enough. If 14% is the share of the transfer funds, then about 15.5% is the share of the property tax. It is true that it is not sufficiently betrayed, but there are reserves for local self-government and in that position, because it is the original income of local self-government. I am convinced that property at the level of local self-government is not well-recorded enough and there are positive examples of some local self-governments who have self-initiatedly set up a list of assets to increase the base on which the property tax is applied. All in all, what I think is very positive is that this bill is the result of one co-operation between the users of these funds, i.e. the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia, and that this level of funding has arisen as a result of the agreement between the ministry and the representatives of the users of these funds, which is the first time, I think in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, and I am sure in the last three years since this assembly adopted this type of law. What is particularly positive is something that will happen in the future, which Mr. Minister has reported to us, which is that the funds for the transfer to local self-government will be defined by the percentage of participation in the domestic social product and a special law will be passed which will contain the right criteria for the transfer of funds to local self-government. Since I didn't have explicit criteria for how these transfer funds were allocated this time, I tried to make one of my own analysis of the transfer funds relative to the number of inhabitants and it proved to be the largest assets in the population's head to be the most underdeveloped and least-developed municipalities. There are some jumps, but the general trend is good and that's what I insist on and that's what you can certainly say that transfer funds help this uniform regional development. Because poorer municipalities, which collect less income from the source, transfer funds complement the budget. We have situations where in less developed municipalities, the transfer funds amount to 50% of the total budget, while in larger cities, the participation of transfer funds is significantly less in the percentage amount. A very important moment in this law is also the obligation for local self-government to provide funding for budget beneficiaries belonging to them under the law, and, first of all, to think about education, i.e. basic education, and it is good that there is a limited growth of gross wages at the level of local self-government. Salaries, as you all know, will not be able to increase more than 9% in 2006 compared to pay for September 2005. The number of speakers reported and the way this debate goes through in the Assembly shows that this, the third year as we bring it, and the most peaceful year, means that this bill almost brings us to someone, so to call it, a balance between the demands of local self-government, because it is always asking for more funding, and the finance ministry that sees it at an optimal level, so that MPs G17 plus will vote for this law, and I call on other fellow MPs from other parliamentary groups to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23747	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSS, the SPS and the NS and the independent MPs 9+9. The word has a National MP, Milorad Belic, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23748	Ladies and gentlemen, before I try to say something about the proposal for a law on the distribution of transfer funds, let me just look back on something that looks like, and I'm stressing seemingly, it's not very close to this point that's on the agenda, and from what I'm saying, you'll see that it's really in a very close relationship. Almost undetected in the media, including the so-called. To national television, Nis citizens have passed a statement of confidence in Smiljko Kostic. Why do I think this is about what I'm talking about? Two months ago, the MPs of the DS came out of these assembly benches, as I assume they capitulated the MPs and felt they would have the necessary majority to bring down the government and challenge early parliamentary elections, both at the moment and when Serbia and the nation struggled to preserve the integrity of the state and practically our future. This would be nothing by chance, we have heard of this speaker, that the loudest in favour of early elections was not the DS satellites, those representing some 0.0 and some of the electoral bodies, and have just been called on not to enjoy this composition of the negotiating team the trust of the people, that the election will of the people has changed since 2003, since the last parliamentary elections. However, the election will of the people in Nis confirmed that by mixing, a policy of personal benefit, media halabubuk can't achieve anything in this country. The people have described themselves quite a bit over the last 15 years, and he's seen what he's been through. I believe that what happened in Nis is the best indication that both this government and Mr. Smiljko Kostic, as a candidate for New Serbia, enjoy the citizens' trust, and that he showed a referendum where he got more than he won in the election. Why is it just so not an accident, and we just heard commendations on Mr Velimir Ilic's account, as Minister of Capital Investments. Look at that, Serbia. I must say that New Serbia's MPs in this house are the only parliamentary group, who, to knock into a tree, like that commercial, had no earthquakes, nor did she take MPs, nor did she have defects. I really think that's what citizens know to judge, and ultimately, to know who decides their fate. Believe me, this money, no matter how much they are, this amount of transfer funds also comes into what the people in charge of the municipalities and the citizens are looking at. So much for the extreme modest attention that the media gave, and God forbid it was the opposite result, and here in front of the hallway you had the opportunity to see and, of course, for this assembly speaker, and in the media, not to speak. What about this bill? Of course, in order not to repeat myself, it is practically identical, along with a linear increase, to one that is valid both in this year and in local self-government, and to enjoy these modest means. It didn't make sense to submit any amendments. As I recall, in the elections Serbia was one electoral unit, therefore, and you and I are MPs throughout Serbia and we must take care of the citizens' interest from Subotica to Kursumlia, or in my Valjevo, etc. The only way that was possible, practically, to submit the amendment, which is to say, that's my Valjev instead of 138 million, and I'm going to say why, at least round up to 200 million, would be that way. Last year, those slightly more experienced managed to extract funds for their municipalities, but then we had to explain to whom they would take it off. Usually, Belgrade was hit by what, in our people, Serbia for Belgrade's sake is being built, and that is, you will admit, still behind us. I wouldn't say it can be applied now, that proverb. As for Valjev, indeed, and the municipalities that are in the Kolubar region, they have extremely modest budgets. Valjevo has just projected a budget to go over one billion is actually planned somewhere in 2008. For what? We can talk about the abilities of those who were before, about the abilities of those who govern this community today, but the legacy is one that dictates your behavior. The primary sources of the budget know that taxes and we know that contributions are taxes, and unfortunately Valjevo is one of the cities where there are more than 10,000 unemployed, as well as those that are fictitiously kept employed, and for months or even a year do not receive wages. Of course, there's no big investment, so I can put it like this as a minus current current current government. But, you see, about a year ago, somewhere like a swan song by the former and DOS authorities say, "Gorenje" has a big investment in Valjevo and opens up a drive etc. And then a contract was made and the location was assigned. What turned out to be? For that location, it takes more than 30 million to get communal equipment, and one thing remains as the dowry of the current government. Property-legal relations are completely unregulated, nearly half a hectare does not belong to the municipality of Valjevo, belonging to the Serbian Railway. It was one of the manners before DOS, even during DOS, but the hot potatoes that many of you have, since I know that the president has municipalities from different parts of Serbia, is not worth moaning and moaning about what was before, should be adapted to what is now. It is currently forcing the municipal authority and to be in charge of fulfilling certain items. We've heard there's a huge commitment to preschool, primary, secondary education. Of course, we've all voted for it, and that's that member 143. The law on basic education and education, which implies not only those grants in terms of investment, but also professional training, travel expenses, competitions in the Republic, etc. It's all a big commitment to the poor community, and of course, as far as what's left of the previous period is concerned, it seems to me that I can use that term, whatever it seems to be, horny, overworked or overbooked in the community itself. I say, hot potatoes remained, about 300 people were employed, and keeping in mind how many other municipalities had employees in the municipal administration, like Užic, the Kings, that's about 50% more. You come into a thankless situation that, on the one hand, you have to take care of the restrictions and turn yourself on to the leper, and on the other hand, to cause public animosity, so, God, we hired them and now you're firing them. These are all very complicated things, and I think, as a transitional year or years in which we will monitor the application of these starting legal and reform measures, that this is enough, so to say, an argument why New Serbia's MPs will vote in favour of the bill, but which obliges everyone, above all, the people who exercise power in these municipalities, to treat each dinar with extreme savings and honesty. So I'm saying it has to do with this previous Nis referendum story with what I just said. Finally, the Law on the Property of Local Self-Government; I want to believe that the Government has a better proposal which is why it is not included today in the agenda of the emergency procedure, because the fact that big money, in the last ten years -- over a billion and a few euros, as I recall, from this proposal, is the people who are professionally engaged in this process and, of course, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, have established. It is a big problem and it is a big problem that the municipality has on paper, so to say, its property, land, buildings, bars, etc., and according to that property law in state property is still practically unavailable. Finally, I would take advantage of the opportunity, is that the minister is not here, but to remind him of a strong promise on the Finance Committee when adopting the Budget Law, which concerns certain subsidies, namely the Construction and Development Directorate of the Kolubar District affected by the earthquake, where we agreed on how much increase in funds, or reduction, or some real sum in 2006, but that, in accordance with the possibilities, something will be distributed from the budget reserves. For what? Because, according to the existing mode of work, a significant part of the resources in these poor municipalities - Ljigo, Osecina, especially Mionica, is used precisely for infrastructure facilities, social objects, which is why I believe that this paperwork, and the paperwork has passed by the Ministry of Capital Investments, the Ministry of Finance, will have a favourable outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23749	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing surely one of the most important and significant draft laws directly affecting the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A team before every debate and every discussion should be as content, more detail, because here we need to look into each other's eyes and justify what we've done, what we've done so far specifically and what we're going to do in the future. For these reasons, this bill on the transfer of funds from the level of the Serbian budget and the participation of the city of Belgrade, cities and municipalities in income tax is the primary law. He should be guided by bile, detailed, and exhausting polemics. The more we discuss, the more we explain to each other what the problems are. As soon as we look at these problems, we'll be able to solve them. Today, we are discussing a figure of 15.4 billion dinars, which are transferred from the level of the Serbian budget through transfers of funds to local self-government, more specifically cities, the city of Belgrade and municipalities. The public wants to show an unreal picture that the increase in funds relative to local self-government, i.e. municipalities - 19.9 and is rounding up to 20%, and we can accept that, and that the increase in the city of Belgrade and other cities is at a level of four percent. When we take real life and the real situation in Serbia, we must acknowledge the fact that this does not mean absolutely any improvement in the lives of our communities, our municipalities, the cities of Belgrade and cities. Here's why. If we take this as an increase of 19.9 percent compared to previous transfer funds, we have to calculate that inflation with which statistics are already coming out, which is 17.5, 17.6 or 17.8 percent, depending on the sources that show it. If we keep in mind that inflation, realistically demonstrated by statistics, is 17.5, then we have to say that in real life, that's about 25 percent. That's why the finance ministry came out here with some middle value, which is about 20 percent, so it can defend both sides. But I think we need to tell each other the truth here. Also, I have to admit that in all of what this law provides is very problematic, criteria can be both like this and like this, but we have to tell each other that we haven't analysed enough and that someone didn't respect the promise he made. If you remember, the last time we discussed the transfer law and the transfer funds, it was promised that after the first quarterly payment in 2005 we would all sit down, conduct a debate, agree and make some changes compared to the second, third and fourth quarter. There was absolutely nothing of it. I have to remind you that's what the representatives of the D.A. promised us for this pay phone. So someone didn't respect what we agreed on. If we had done so then, surely today would have been less of a problem and today it would be less of a challenge what is all the criterion for the transfer of these funds. If we take it realistically, which is the fact that the basis of this law lies in the Law of Local Self-Government, then in that law we have to look for, in Article 77, Section 2 and Article 92, the reasons we can talk about here. These are the criteria, in those members, of the kaolex specialis designated for this lex generalis. I performed certain statistics and certain calculations and took all variations, and in no possible variant, looking at the provisions of Art. 77 and 92. The law on local self-government, this math doesn't fit. I've consulted experts who can explain something about this, and they don't understand what the basic criterion for the distribution of these funds is either. Finally, we conclude that it is a political criterion, therefore, not an economic criterion. The basis of this proposal is not an economy, it's not a real life in Serbia, it's not the social policy we're talking about here, it's not a health policy, it's not an education policy, it's a classical, dry policy, it's to stay in power as long as possible and not be questioned by the opposition and not removed. I don't think we should talk about this anymore, because the facts will show that today I was right, as I was right, and when we challenged the Law on Local Self-Government, as I was right and as the SRS was right in full when it said that those criteria, as mentioned above, were not adequate. Now you can imagine, if what we've already passed as a legal and lex specialis regulation we didn't respect in all of this. What will happen in the future with Serbia? Realistically, Serbia is not working right now. That's what I have to say in public. I am sorry that local self-government has really been questioned by the electoral laws and the local self-government Act. If we look at that fact and the fact that local self-government is being financed, what are the budgets, how are they planned, it might create a fake picture. I can tell you that no matter how much funds you have here, the position of the SRS is such that we won't object to who liked it more and who liked it less. We generally point to what I said, which is that criteria are not good. The attitude of the public, the attitude of those who live realistically in this country, is that these are very small funds - 15.4 billion for all local communities. It's really too small. On the other hand, I have to say the fact that in Pozega municipality I have kept an account and I have tried to spend every penny in an adequate way and that, according to the purpose of these budgets, I will bring it all to an end. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. I've prepared his paperwork. No one at the level of the Republic of Serbia has come to see how my associates and I schedule a budget, what money is spent, what we spend it on, what we plan to do, etc. Here, I publicly invite you to meet me and talk about it, and today I will provide evidence. In 2004, the budget of the municipality of Pozega was planned for about 205 million dinars. By 9 October 2004, when I came and took office as president of the municipality, 63% of the budget was realised. Of course, by the end of the year it came out to 91 - 92%. Now I'd like to say something about the transfer funds to the municipality of Pozeg in 2005. According to the previous law, we got 39 million, which relative to the sales tax that we had 65 million, is really small. When we add that 10% increase compared to the income on profits, I'm looking at a calculation to make it about 12 to 15 million damages in favour of the Republic and to the harm of the local community. So that's the 2005 funding. Very defeating and very devastating. We didn't get close. If only we had about what we achieved in 2004, I could understand. On the other hand, I'm saying that this proposal increased by 19.9%. It's specifically for the municipality of Požega 47 and a little more millions. I must stress the fact that those who are operationally in charge of the implementation of this budget must be most imagined, first of all, because of the provisions put into this transfer law, which is that we must respect that Article 19. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia that determines salaries in administrations. Here, I'm asking here and I'm publicly calling all the mayors and all the presidents of the municipalities -- are they allowed to tell the workers of the administration what their salaries will be in 2006? An increase of 9% compared to September's earnings paid next month -- October's month, is something we can't justify. Believe me, he hates me to walk out of my office hallway and meet with workers who perform their duties. It's a disaster. We can say it's some previous law, that we've already spoken about it, but that law is directly mentioned here. We are threatened if we find ourselves in some way and provide additional resources, so that workers can't be paid off. Now I'd like to tell you that we're going to have some problems about it. So, everyone in Serbia is aware that inflation is double-digit and inflation will certainly be two digits in the following year. Why do we prejudge that it must be 9% compared to September's salary? There's no excuse, nor will I justify myself to anyone, but that's why we'll all probably be able to change that legal text here and somehow we'll manage to make that provision of Article 19. We're changing the budget law. There's no reason not to show you that I've done it, I'm going to give it to the representatives of the Ministry, and the inflow of funds on the budget of Pozeg Municipality, and the state of the vault, and that I did it along with my closest associates, and that I planned a budget of 176 million dinars, of course, counting the amount of 39 Utransfer from last year. Through two or three rebalances, we went out to 219 million. That's 24% more than the budget planned. But when I turn down that real inflation that's about 25%, it's the same thing. That's why I said Serbia taps into place. We revolve around each other and revolve around ourselves. At this point, I am also prepared to provide evidence that Pozega Municipality, according to all the budget users mentioned in this draft law, has made a 100% commitment, and we have education, five schools, three secondary and two primary schools. There's my evidence. I'm going to hand over the originals, but I'm also going to ask to hand over the Honorable Minister to the CD of Pozeg Municipality in 2005. You can see every business, every dinar where he's gone and what's done. There's also a code here, so you can get into this program and look at all this stuff that I've been talking about. One more thing, I am prepared to place this through certain donors to make it available to every citizen and possibly to a political party. So, daily data update, what, how and in what way. I am doing this precisely because many have challenged members of the SRS who have received the votes of the people to be presidents, which they said would be one way or the other. No, please, my dear gentlemen, I'm handing over these documents and inviting you as dear guests to Požega municipality to see for yourself. When I was talking about the transfer of funds from Pozeg municipality to education and said that I had proof that we had 100% reconciled everything they requested, I was saying not because I was asking for more funds through the amendments, but to ask you and to say that Peter Lekovic Elementary School, which bears the name of the first folk hero, is sneezing and that it would be a huge investment for the Požega municipality in 2006. If you are able and if you take this discussion seriously, help. We will not tolerate the amendment because it is the general position of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23751	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP of the people, Stevica Dedjanski, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23752	Dear fellow MPs, it is necessary today to discuss with much more arguments about this law, given that it is a very important law, especially from the point of view of local self-government. In fact, the transfer funds constitute a significant amount of total assets in the life of each local self-government. We have seen, in the light of this law, that the average of the transfer funds is around 14% of the total assets available to local self-government. We also know that the transfer funds in some local self-government account for 20, 30, 40, and about 50% of the total. It is so much more important that these funds are discussed and the law is generally discussed. Local self-government is very important to people's lives. It is the first and primary level at which citizens are familiar with the functioning of the state and how local self-government functions, essentially, they also define their attitude towards the state they live in. I must begin by saying that the government deserves criticism for not making criteria, and it has promised, because last year, when adopting a similar bill, it was found in the debate that criteria are not appropriate, that it is necessary to approach new criteria and that is not done. If this was established last year, it was quite enough time to create new criteria, to respect the realities in Serbia, the situation in certain municipalities and, of course, to draw up these criteria and to prepare a new bill based on these criteria. This bill doesn't contain it and I think it's bad. Only a linear increase of 20% will retain those irregularities that were observed last year, and objectively the municipalities will put them in a position to cope, if they can manage at all. I'm not saying this for all municipalities, because, of course, some municipalities don't use the funds they get the way they should, because it's mentioned that municipalities will get 19% more transferable funds, the city of Belgrade 4%. Of course, for the needs of Belgrade citizens, it is very little, and for those who manage Belgrade, it is too much than they need, because it is undeniable that the City of Belgrade has huge financial resources for our terms. Here I think of the heads of the Democratic Party, of the mayor, since he has become the supreme master of everything in Belgrade and decides on the spending of funds on his own, and this is done in one way that is absolutely not for the Belgrades, something that we MPs, who are interested in living Belgrade and Belgrade, should condemn. We have been witnessing that in the past few years, practically Belgrade has been divided into municipalities of first and second order. We love to say that there are three rings, central city municipalities, other rings that make up Palilula, Vozdovac, Zvezdavac, Kukarica, New Belgrade and Zemun and so on. The third ring, it's seven suburban municipalities, and it can absolutely be realized that there is a situation in the city that these suburban municipalities have become the municipalities of the second row. If you look at the data, which is used as criteria for the distribution of funds, surface area, population, number of employees, possibly some problems, we have a strange situation that, for example, seven suburban municipalities per area account for 65% of Belgrade's surface area. When it comes to the number of residents, they account for a sixth of the total number of citizens in Belgrade, and when it comes to the volume of their funds compared to the Belgrade city budget, it is only 4%. If it compares more with the fact that the Belgrade city budget is 500m euros, then you can see how much money is available to the mayor and his team, especially how it is spent. Several fellow MPs and I last year and this year we used different occasions to warn that Belgrade's funds are being spent irrationally, that some projects that are megalomanic character, where it cannot be determined how much money is being spent, that it is a classical money laundering, because who would have thought of a reasonable man having a garage in the city centre, which several times "opens", is being prolonged, where you can't even determine how much money is being spent, and otherwise Belgrade has generally become a very narrow city for the number of vehicles that he owns, pollution in the city centre is already large and a garage is being created, as is under the Belgrade City Assembly, where the big crowd seems even bigger anyway, and the ecological situation is making it even worse. The city of Belgrade approved the construction of a business project on Rajic Street, on the edge of Calemegdan, which has a surface area of 48,000 square metres. For example, one football field has a surface area, or dimensions 100 times 60, means eight football fields. The point is a business-hospital facility, where there will again be an enormous amount of everything and everything, it will not be good for Belgrade. I'm saying this because the municipalities, especially these municipalities of the second circle, Zemun, New Belgrade, Chukarica, Zveztar, Rakovica, Palilula, are practically left behind, especially these suburban ones, to manage. While some of these municipalities are able to possibly raise some funds, thanks to some of them being provided in the city center itself, like Palilula, which has a fantasticly large area, but it comes to the city center, because it starts practically on the Zrenjanski road, and here goes to the Federal Assembly, so it can possibly go through business space, renting, and in another way pick up one part of the funds, and these suburban municipalities are left to itself. It has been going on years ago, that suburban municipalities are practically unable, except for those settlements of general costs, are not in a position to create any investment project or to help the city of Belgrade do something about it. Practically about 900 million dinars were left to all suburban municipalities to try to do something about their development, which is absolutely insufficient. During that time in the city centre, I presented the data the other day when it was a strategy to fight corruption, a kilometer of city road costs, according to the Belgrade City Building Land Fund, twom euros. Whether or not the Municipality of Grock, 1,000km of roads, will ever, not at that price, because it is an illusion, to improve the lives of the citizens of the Municipality of Grock, with the means at his disposal. I'm sure he won't. Belgrade, too, is unfortunately an example of some megalomanic ambitions of city leaders and possibly the functioning of the urban mafia, because projects that are not Belgrade's needs are offered, or Belgrade's wishes, but certain interesting and business ambitions of certain people, as the case works, a bridge on Chukarica, which is constantly moving its bearing over how the urban plan is moving, and of course the costs are rising. Few people know that, for example, for the Makish 2 water line, 400,000 euros have been spent on various consulting services already since the loan received for these needs, and how it will only be when the construction begins and the construction according to data that Mom has been late for three years. So, it is necessary within these numbers containing the bill and the resources that are allocated to certain municipalities, I am fully convinced that the City of Belgrade will again retain the inequality it has established years ago, even the United States will formally have a basis, will say that they have received an increase in the funds of only 4% and there is nothing to be done, and nothing will be done again. I mention this because there is an absolute need to create criteria that will apply to all and that these criteria are much wider than they have so far, so that certain municipalities, which are not in a situation, willful political powers in Belgrade, or otherwise, help to get more funding, as much as their citizens deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23753	The word has a folk MP, Stevica Dedjanski, and let the MP Predrag Mijailović-Lune be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the minister, by his established custom, who escaped. I can only add that I hope he's escaped from the country that would help us all establish something and that he won't be coming back soon, too, would be better for him. Maybe he went to wear jeans and some T-shirt to get out here. This law is the continuation of Mr Dinkic and his political volunteerism and will, which he has been conducting for a long period of time. The Transfer Act shall treat part of the funds transferred by the Republic to local self-government and shall complete local budgets in accordance with Article 77(2). The Law on Local Self-Government to Members of the 99th Same Law Article 2. The view says: "The total amount of transfer funds referred to in Article 1 laid down by the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is allocated unanimously to the position of the 1st member, consists of two parts - a part intended to cover the missing assets of part of the paid income due to the change of tax regulations and works distributed according to the following criteria: 1) the number of residents; 2) the number of departments and the number of basic and secondary schools; 3) the number of children covered by the social care of children and the number of social care facilities of children; 4) the status of the environment; 5) the degree of development; 6) the size of the territory of the unit of local self-government. A proportionate portion of the transfer funds referred to in Article 1 shall be paid to units of local self-government once or more during the month." This is the principle of Article 99, and it was true last year, because there was an alignment with the previous tax system law. He is the kind of guy he was so far, because in 2004, municipalities that had higher sales taxes for various reasons received more transfer funds. These municipalities, which now have a commitment to VAT because of their production structure, are significantly more funded by general needs, but nothing is returning to them and they are now significantly losing their ability to finance local needs. However, the very meaning of this law is in that second part. These funds should use funding from public institutions and infrastructures in local self-government according to these criteria, from population to territory size. With this law and indexation, all criteria have been ignored, as we have heard from previous exhibitors. The first part of the law in this year is pointless, because it was a transitional principle, and this second part is completely neglected. It has nothing to do with the criteria that the municipality, such as Vrsac, from which I come, with 22 schools and 7,000 students, has transfer funds such as the municipalities that have five schools and 1,000 students, that the municipality with twice the population and with similar degrees of development has twice as much transfer, because there are local authorities members of G17 plus. I ask the question where are the public criteria for which this distribution was made? Vršac municipality, although not obliged, for the maintenance of these schools and for the maintenance of the health center, is large amounts that are separated, and the transfer funds are more than miserable and neglected. It is clear that, we all agree, the developed regions should finance less developed, but for Dinkic, the minister's will, for which communists, what was once called, the naturalist and the burazer economy, are naive and these are children's plans in relation to what he is doing now. Here is only a criterion that stands better in the eyes of the minister and this is a slap on all municipalities that are well developed, because the state does not want to understand that they also have greater needs and that their development develops and further the budgetary potential of the Republic. So I call on Mr. Minister to give criteria and arguments for this transfer proposal. First of all, we can't ask him because he's not here. I'd be ashamed of him, too, and I'd probably get out of here, which he did, but enough with the lies. They predict us here, they lie, they think no one knows how the situation works. We need to move to G17, then get some funding for our municipalities. Shame on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23755	The word has the People's MP Predrag Mijailovic, and let the MP Tihomir Đuričić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, we have before us a law on the transfer of funds to municipalities and if we analyze it well and look at it and if we take criteria that should be fundamental to me, the number of people, the area of the municipality, as well as the development of the territory or the municipality, we see that this time it is not done evenly and we say justly. If I look at the Zlatibor County, which has always been damaged for the past 15 years, and if 10 municipalities get only 480 million, compared to the likes of Novi Sad, where nothing is bigger than the Zlatibor County per population, and by the territory of Zlatibor County is one four or five times larger, so twice as much has been given Novi Sad. Belgrade got a lot more, if you look at these criteria and took it, the Zlatibor County should get about one billion dinars. These are all things to be considered. It must be taken into account that Belgrade, Novi Sad and these cities, other cities, but primarily these two cities have the largest number of investments, both domestic and foreign. These are all reasons why it must be clearly and quickly accessed what the minister himself has seen, that we must begin to deploy these funds evenly and that it is necessary to do the law on local self-government and the new law on transfer of funds as soon as possible, so that we have clear criteria in the future, and this must be approached very carefully. That's why I think the only thing that's really encouraging in this whole presentation is what's going to happen to the new law. It is certainly also a project by the government of the Republic of Serbia to develop Serbia evenly. I don't mind that Belgrade, Novi Sad have so many transfers, or that they have income and investment, but in future law on local self-government and transfer of funds, which are already being announced for 2007, we need to take every detail more carefully. So if we don't, then we'll only bring Serbia down to Belgrade as regards investment or the number of inhabitants. So once again I say that this time it is not evenly distributed, we have to admit it, it is recognised by the minister and all admit it, but therefore, by realizing this problem, the government and the minister, as far as I understand it, will surely speed up to pass a law on local self-government and the law on transfer of funds. That's why the DSS will certainly vote this time for this bill, but we are warning as MPs from the neighborhood where we come from that we are damaged this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23757	The People's Messenger Tihomir Đuričić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bojan Kekic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported that I am taking part in this debate regarding this law on the allocation of budget funds to local self-government. Of course, for a reason and to express my dissatisfaction, because I am one of the presidents of these municipalities in Serbia, I come from the municipality of Kula, as president of the municipality. When this figure of 49 million 304,000 is part of the budget of the municipality of Kula, which is one-seventh of the total budget, it can be concluded that these are very small funds obtained from the Republic of Serbia, given that the provision here is in this Article 6. Law on education obliged municipalities and local self-government to provide salaries to employees and current costs. Namely, in the municipality of Kula, salaries were paid to all the employees in education, as well as to local self-government in time, and that seems until the 5th of the month, and there was no problem. However, as this member of the law says here - the funds are limited, and I will mention that in the territory of the municipality of Kula there is an initiative for the opening of two high school departments, which absolutely do not exist in the territory of the municipality and tower children travel to a nearby municipality to attend high school. Although there is a high school in Russia's Christur in Russian, and since there are 6,000 Russians there who can attend school, Serbian children are not in a position to listen to this class in Russian language and attend. An initiative has been launched, but this law will simply prevent us from opening and developing schools and school institutions. In fact, the minister here said in his presentation, more work -- more money. It's quite logical, but he didn't say how feasible it was. He has not said at any time how we can achieve this, if the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted at the previous session, has limited the funds for personal incomes by municipalities. I agree with the fact, more work -- more money, who wants to work, but what people need to do that job. So how can you do that, if we're not able to hire or form some new departments that would be in charge of some areas? I don't know how, how to pay these people, the minister never mentioned it. The theory is one thing, and practice is another. If he says that 9% of all things can be paid to employees in the municipality, it means that it's some minimum minimum, how can we form some departments for the development of municipalities, for the development of agriculture, and it doesn't matter what. What a stimulant it is, working well in your community and filling the state register, the state budget, if this is how it returns to the municipalities. We, which was in line with the opportunities of our municipality, have managed to reduce these taxes that the municipality brings in terms of stimulating, opening up new businesses, new companies and businesses, and in this way expressed our good will to enable these people and create the best conditions for them to open up their companies, shops or whatever. What's it worth to us, we open up new companies, we try to open them, we stimulate people to do it, of course, those same people will become taxpayers, and they will fill this budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the municipality of Kula from having no idea. Why would they do that to me? What kind of stimulant is that? I'm saying that those who don't work can get the transfer funds as they will, and that some of us directly benefit from giving up some of our own incomes, which are being charged from these municipal taxes, to stimulate the development of the economy, we don't have any of that, we don't have any use for it. For a year now, I've been president of the municipality, I've received more demands from the government, from the Ministry of Finance, to streamline jobs in public enterprises, and so on in the municipality itself, which, of course, we have done accordingly. But everything is focused on local self-government, literally everything. It's asked local self-government to give up some of its piece of cake in favour of the state, so that the state can implement these reform laws, as you call them, and that doesn't come back to us in any way. Start with a drinker strike, just think of it, because you asked local self-government to cut down on the drinks, to give up the drinks, so they don't strike and attack the government. Why would the municipality do that when you're redeploying funds in this way to local self-government. I will also mention, as I heard, the president of Mr Markovic's Assembly, at a conference of cities and municipalities said something about this law on the return of property to municipalities, and I do not think that Prime Minister Kostunica mentioned it. All the presidents of the municipalities are running for that law to be passed. I call upon them to think carefully when the draft of that law comes that they will vote and what they will do. And for what reason? The law, the president of the assembly said at the conference, stipulates that local self-government will be obliged to return what was taken from people after World War II, or what was denationalised. What does that mean? It's huge resources, because as some data show, it's about 50 billion in question, I don't know how certain local self-governments are going to return the property that was taken away from people after World War II. And there's also a question of where the funds from the sale and privatisation of the company and the company are directed, because if you already thought you were talking about the return of the property and how to prescribe it, you have to talk about what means it's going to be done from. So I'm saying, I don't accept this way of redistributing funds, this is pathetic and pathetic as the City Hall, as one of the middle municipalities, got, one week, very little, given that we're trying, we're giving up our resources through various taxes, and the Republic is absolutely giving us nothing back in return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23759	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bojan Kekic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Božidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23760	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, proposed law on the agenda today, and as it challenges the attention of our MPs, since we have a function and territorial to represent our local environments, but also the representatives of local self-government responsible for meeting, i.e. officials are local budgets. In his discussion, the minister himself said that the criteria by which everything was determined were not adequate, and I would add that they were not enough. On a specific case, my discussion has been directed, and I'm going to talk about a criterion that would have to be introduced, and I'm going to try to explain it, even though I submitted the amendment, which is that, for example, Some 40,000 people are constantly working abroad. The most numerous must be Petrovac at Mlavi with 11,000 inhabitants, Žabari with 5,200, Gradište with 5,200, Malo Crnić with 5,000. All these people, in 90% of cases, live in households in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or one or two generations, are located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, they spend two months a year, or send their hosts some money, increasing spending on the territory, or increasing VAT. For this reason, I advocate that the transfer criteria should include how many people abroad are working on the territory of a municipality. I am sure that in Petrovac 11,214 citizens, given that local self-government there has a database, and one of the certain facts is that local self-government has no legal ability to take from such people, who deserve to have a more developed local structure than it is now, which is much smaller than in some major cities, that in doing so transfer funds, to return to local self-government, and they invest in infrastructure. I've been thinking about what this criterion could be one of the criteria that would relatively satisfy the local environments with such a phenomenon, which is that 1,000 people would be increased by a million dinars. Why for a million dinars? Because we are aware of the fact that these funds are being spent in larger centres, that purchases are also being done in larger centres, for which reason it would be about 5%. But the fact and respecting the time of my fellow SPS colleagues, where they have to say something, I have submitted an amendment to the proposed member of the law, so I will try to explain mathematics as part of the amendment. And what is most important, aware of the fact that this is going to be very difficult to apply, could be replaced from the current reserve by these municipalities in 2006, and this could enter as a mandatory criterion for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23761	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23762	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on the distribution of transfer funds. This is about a very important law regarding the position of local self-government. The allocation, in the SRS' view, was not carried out according to the appropriate criteria provided for in Articles 77 and 99. Law on local self-government. I'll just list some: population number, number of secondary and primary schools, degree of development, size of territory and environmental status. Dear People's MPs, please pay attention to this last - environmental status. I've just come from the city of Pancheva, where the amount of 212 million dinars has been allocated, and the town of Panchevo, where I come from, is exposed to eco-terror, in the form of silent and systematic killing of my fellow citizens. Panchevo has rightly been called the black ecological point, which has immigrated fear into every house, every street and soul of my fellow citizens. The percentage of pollution in Panchev is increasing and more dangerous, and I would say unbearable. I wonder if Panchevo will experience the fate of a Majdanpek, so the citizens under that terror and fear of sickness and death will begin packing their suitcases and leaving. I wonder where, where. It is high time the government of the Republic of Serbia wondered what was in the way, our lives and lives of our descendants or contaminants poisoning us under the auspices of that same government. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to allocate funds much greater than it has set aside for the threatened city of Panchevo. Dear Madam Vice President, I am taking this opportunity to ask a parliamentary question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically the Ministry of Capital Investments. The question is: where is the money that the Japanese government has singled out as a donation to build apartments for wartime military disableds and members of their families? I want the Government, or the Competent Ministry, to provide me with a report, or a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23763	Thank you. I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the debate on the first item of the agenda - the draft law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade in profit tax in 2006. The People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic has the word, and then the People's Messengers Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mrs. Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23765	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is under discussion on the proposal for a law on transfer funds. This law is of great importance for the functioning of local self-government, and also indirectly and directly for the quality of life and the work of our citizens. The government and resolution ministries have seen inequality in the transfer of funds from the republican budget heading towards local self-government units. In this regard, they are taking measures to reduce this inequality, i.e. to bring about the unification of these funds coming from the Republic budget for trusted jobs in our local self-government. The measures, which should make more significant shifts in this regard, are reforms that should give their positive consequences for citizens only in 2007, and what is being prepared for the next calendar and budget year, this is proposed in this legislation that we are discussing today. In this regard, the government proposed that cities increase their transfer funds by about four per cent in the following year and 19.9 per cent in municipalities. These transfers to municipalities, increasing by next year, are increasing linearly. As a number of years ago, and also in this year, it was observed, as the minister has repeatedly pointed out, that a significant reduction in transfer funds has been observed in certain municipalities, by this linear increase, regardless of 20 per cent for next year, and the municipalities will remain with a lack of funds to function their basic activities. These are mainly municipalities that are small, poor, undeveloped and have few opportunities for their own incomes, where not enough funds are realised, or where the expected and planned funds based on the income tax are not realised, so that these municipalities will have problems with functioning in the following year. I come from a municipality that's going to have problems like this next year, and she's had problems like this this year. It is the municipality of Bolec, located in eastern Serbia, in Timoko province. My municipality is, unfortunately, traditionally undeveloped, multinational, with great space, one of the most discreet municipalities in Serbia. What does that mean? This means that there is a more significant local road network to be maintained, and we are faced, as are all municipalities of such rank, with a very detached infrastructure, above all I mean water supply and roads; 75 percent of the population of my municipality lives in rural settlements. So it is of great importance for the lives of the citizens of my municipality to maintain these roads, so that citizens can reach the seat of the municipality, meet their needs that they need to meet, that children from these rural areas come to schools and meet their other needs. These funds that we receive from the transfer will only be enough to settle the material costs in those bodies, schools, social work centres, kindergartens and employees' salaries in the municipal administration. Since investment, or maintenance of infrastructure, we cannot do anything from these funds, so to speak, regardless of the great efforts and shifts we have made in this year. For these reasons, and the minister is currently absent, I would like to ask those present from the Ministry, if he comes to the session, to convey this question to me. If he doesn't come, it'll be a parliamentary question. I would like the minister to give us an answer whether the competent ministry for next year for such municipalities, such as mine, is preparing some measures to help overcome difficulties in this period by 2007, in the area of financing local self-government. Probably someone would ask a question, and I'd ask myself if I were you, what do we do in that sense to cut costs or increase our own incomes? I'll tell you that our own incomes, and surely the situation with other similar municipalities, are very modest. For this year they are planned, and they are realistically planned, on some 13 million dinars. In the first ten months, we have achieved a total of seven million, although the collection of these revenues has increased by maybe 15-20 per cent this year. So we're taking certain measures. The shifts are visible in this regard, but from these modest means, we cannot ensure the financing of this infrastructure that is necessary for the lives of our citizens. Also, income tax funding is not realised in the planned income, as the tendency to reduce employment remains present. One of our main objectives for improving local economic development is the development of small and small entrepreneurship, which is only in the beginning. Of course, it's a condition for local infrastructure development. For these reasons, and given that citizens will ask, and the competent authorities, as well as the committees at the next session, when we adopt the budget for the following year, for me to answer what is being done in this regard for such municipalities, I would ask, unless the minister is present, to get it in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23766	Thank you, Mrs Dragojlović. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. He's not here right now. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, and the Messenger of the people Goran Ilic. One notice, we've been consulting here, today we're going to be working until 1800 hours, considering how far we get those points that are on the agenda, which means, I'm talking about the assessment, that we're probably going to have the next joint debate open and how far the debate gets by 1800 hours, so the sequel will be on Monday. So tomorrow won't work. Thank you for understanding, Mr. Petronievich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23767	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in the income tax in 2006 is necessary for one single reason, as all municipalities in Serbia are waiting for this law to adopt their budgets. It's something that's a fact. Secondly, which is also a fact, the basic characteristic of this law is exactly the same as the law of last year, and this is a lack of clear criteria for the distribution of transfer funds, so that the injustices that were then passed on to this law. The lack of criteria leads to the fact that the debate on this law comes down to two parts: one is a debate on criteria, different criteria are introduced; the other is a single debate - whether someone is small and someone is very, so people come out, for quite a reason, and they say that for their end, their municipality is that little. I believe it is, and then take it off from someone else, because they think it's a lot, which I don't believe in. I just don't know if it's much or little, just for the very reasons that you miss those criteria. Belgrade is often mentioned here. I'm from Belgrade, and I want to make my position very clear. If we look at Belgrade for who is running power, and Nenad Bogdanovic, who owns Belgrade, half a million euros of budget and another hundred million more over building land, would probably expect me to say - well, cut it down, but I won't do it, for the simple reason that these are funds belonging to Belgrade and Belgrade. What I want to tell the Serbian government, as it starts to look like these criteria to Belgrade, that anyone can look like it just doesn't look like the government in Belgrade. There are no real criteria in Belgrade, but there are those that apply. In Belgrade, there is a centre where we are now and all somehow look at Belgrade through what is normal, because the mayor invests everything he invests, invests in that center, makes megalomaniac projects, makes bridges that are not needed, and does not make those he needs, etc. Simply, Belgrade is viewed that way. I have to tell you, it's only 10% of Belgrade. Belgrade also has a second zone, which also belongs to city tissue, so-called The coastal zone. The entire settlements, with hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, a Danube wreath across the Danube; Zemun, not only as the town's core, but also the entire settlements around Zemun; Chukarica with all the towns around it (Zeleznik, Sremčica, Moštnica); the pedestal area, Resnik, Ripanj and not to list further, Mr. Zarko Obradović spoke of seven suburban municipalities as the third ring. But there is one fact: in this area, of 65% of Belgrade's territory, two-thirds of Belgrade's territory, one-sixth of the population, only one-fifth of the municipality stands out. Belgrade also has rich, poor and threatened municipalities, as there are in Serbia. Poor: Baraiah and Sopot, among the most underdeveloped; threatened: Lazarus, Obrenovac, Grock. Lazarec is usually remembered for its record coal production or when a large hawari of rodents occur on spears. Few people who view Lazarec as the most endangered area, with an extreme contaminant, in which, next to coal, everything was destroyed. When I say that, there are other criteria. In Belgrade, there are also criteria for similar and inadequate municipalities, those on which Bogdanovic's friends are in power and those on which they are not. And it depends on what funding these municipalities will be. Therefore, when all of this is considered, there are criteria that are not produced at all in criteria, and there are no real ones. That's why all the debates are being held. That's the problem that makes Belgrade look at itself in one way. In the absence of these criteria, counterpart Todorovic said that it is necessary to regulate local self-government not only from the point of view of funding, but also competence, property and regional development. I want to add one more, and I'm going to end it, there's a need to pass a law on the capital, a commitment that's been going on since 2002. The unresolved problems with Belgrade and the unresolved problems within Belgrade have led to these misunderstandings. That's why I end up this way: the law needs to be passed, but I don't know if there's a business possibility that the Assembly's conclusion is that we're never going to adopt this law in this way again. Let the criteria be done immediately, let them be prepared by next year, let them be so, let them be taken from the rich more, or let them be given less to the rich. Let the poor be given more, but enough is enough so that those who develop faster do not stop in development, and we also do not allow poor communities to become even poorer. Let that be the conclusion, politics, let the employee's funds be reduced, and the investment funds increase. When I say shrink, I don't mean in a simple, vulgar sense. I know that after 2000 DOS hired thousands of his friends, party friends. I'm not for getting fired or getting paid, but it's got to be stopped, and the investments can't stop. All in all when looked at, I think it is necessary to pass this law, but also a whole series of criteria, other laws, start from the whole, from the law on local self-government, because we now have local self-government in Serbia so that people are just dealing with themselves, change each other, discuss each other's referendums, etc. However, there is also five-octobaric violence in Surcin again, as it has been, etc. So the law does, but no more of this law, no clear criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23768	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic - not there; the People's Messenger Goran Ilic - is not there right now either. The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Angelkovic, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the law that we said last year, Mr Dinkic said it - adopt it now like this, I am aware that this is wrong, that the criteria are not good, and next year we will make the criteria far more just. We're here now and they're the same criteria again. Therefore, there is again a fraud in the act, in a series of frauds by Mr Dinkic of this people and this assembly, a fraud for which I hope, when he leaves power, one hundred years will go to prison. This is a classic example of manipulation, the interests of the group and the interests of individuals. There's a state here in the last place, and this country is being permanently destroyed. What is obtained through such a transfer of funds, which is made according to political belongings or sympathys, rather than by the real desire to make the country progress with it, to make the development of certain environments more just? It is achieved that soon we will probably have only three cities in Serbia and we will have nothing more. It will all come together in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, and smaller cities or villages will completely devastate and disappear. We have a classic example of population migration from the border to the central part of Serbia, where literally the cities that exist are reduced to the fall of not only the birthright, but the total number of residents that are going on there. What's most interesting is that certain municipalities that were initially treated by this transfer were punished. What happened in kickinda? By coming to power last year at this time, we have done a rationalization, not waiting for Mr Dinkic or the Ministry of Finance to do so. We have done a rationalization, in the first month reduced 10% of municipal administrations and public enterprises, reduced salaries in public enterprises and municipal administrations, reduced additions to boards, introduced savings at all levels, from fuel consumption, telephones and all other things, made maximum savings, and acted domestically. Now it happens that such a municipality, which has done everything to reduce taxes, administrative and communal, is all trying to activate every single penny of God to go into production and development, is now being punished because since September, we will count on what percentage of the increase for public enterprises and the municipal administration will be. So, that robbery is definitely continuing in kickinda. What's a disaster, it's a privatisation, for which we've asked the Ministry of Finance several times to give us information as far as it's bound, by law, of 5% to return to local self-government. We searched a few times, but we never got that information. Last month, we received 260 dinars from the Ministry of Finance for the Privatisation of the Kidindic Municipality from the Department of Finance, which was practically brought to an end. The robbery continues as the finance ministry at its price destroys not only "Naftagas", but also all municipalities that sometimes have some bonuses of mining rent. The price of oil, which I remind you of, is 50% higher than all Serbia, the gas is several times lower than the price of oil on the world market, and it is now being calculated by multiplying the price of oil by the amount of oil that is being allocated, and 2% of it goes to the municipality's mining rent. Is there an end to it, someone saying -- wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, I know that maybe a man thinks that everything he does is very good, but in the field and in life it's not his fantasy, his fiction, life is something else. Therefore, what is unnecessary to talk about further, this in no country could go on like this. This is our money Mr Dinkic gives us. He doesn't need to give us anything. We would be most fortunate to make a decision right now that the Kickindi don't need any money, but just to get him out and we'll probably have far more financial effects than this transfer of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23770	MP Zoran Angelkovic is not here. It is the same list, the MPs asked within the same parliamentary group to change the order. This means that the People's Messenger Hranislav Peric has the word, so the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Rade, then the Messenger of the People, Zoran Krasic, and the Messenger of the People, Miroslav Mircic, are no longer on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23771	I was last on the list we got, and that's why I'm asking you what lists you're working on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23772	Please don't throw it away. Not only is it uncultural, it's also forbidden. Here you go, Mr. Perry, I'll give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23773	Usually when something is shared, there's always trouble, and even when it's shared, there's an obvious possibility that it's not even justly distributed. This looks a little bit like that folk-- a lot of kids a little bit of eggs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here at this pay phone, many have mentioned undeveloped municipalities, and that's for the sake of order, so it turns out that we're talking, so let the undeveloped remain undeveloped again. In this house, we adopt European laws and want to go to Europe, and we have 33 municipalities in Serbia that have the status of undeveloped municipalities. I suggest that everything be done first and help these municipalities get out of underdeveloped communities, and then create criteria for how many people will get transfer funds. In the present situation, undeveloped municipalities won't be able to help even the criteria, no matter how they may be. When you're poor, there are no criteria that can help you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only ask you to support one of my amendments that would provide little money for all undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. What I'm trying to say is that the undeveloped agricultural communities, with the rural population, are underdeveloped. Many are moving to nearby towns, so our villages remain empty, and some villages have disappeared from the mountainous and mountainous areas. With this kind of politics, we'll kill the village, and without a rich village, there's no rich city. The most difficult situation is the undeveloped municipalities near larger cities, such as Merošina, Doljevac and Gajin Han, which are only 20km from Nis. Workers from our municipalities work in companies in Nis, generate income, and money goes to the budget of the city of Nis. And they spent their profits in shops in Nis, where taxes go back to the Nis city budget. The transport of workers from the village to Nis is carried out by a carrier from Nis, so that these assets and duties go towards the budget, so that municipalities such as Merošina, Doljevac, Gajin Han, do not have much of what are near the city, and such is the situation with all undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. So I suggest we take immediate action, not just talk about it. I have submitted some amendments in particular, so when we come to the amendments, I will explain this more closely, and I would ask all MPs in parliament to pay attention when it comes to underdeveloped municipalities, to press and vote for such amendments that will correct the little injustice that has been done in the distribution of funds. I also want to say that there are a lot of problems in these underdeveloped municipalities, that's what the predecessors talked about, so they mentioned that there are no roads, no conditions, etc. We have more and more that citizens from the village are moving to cities and if we go through this distribution, if we reward the developed ones again, and the underdeveloped remain to have the same status as they do now, I'm afraid everyone will gather and come into town.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23774	Thank you, Mr. Perry. I need to give you an explanation. You're right, your name was last on the list of registered ones, but because some MPs were not present, and as long as the lists are not exhausted where there are registered for and against the seas alternately. That's why this order is disturbed. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, then the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today Minister Dinkic has tried to organize some kind of chapradian in which he spoke about everything and everything, just not about what's on the agenda, not about this law and not about these transfer funds distributed to municipalities and cities. He spoke of the return of property to local self-governments in an unconstitutional attempt that you decided today not to go into the agenda in an emergency procedure, but apparently the minister hadn't prepared himself for it, but he had a promise to talk about it, so he was mostly on the subject here and talking and I even thought that these ladies, his associates, had mistakenly planted some other paper on him, so man didn't really know what he needed to talk about today. He talked about what he was planning, what laws he was planning next year to propose to the Assembly to change. I don't just know where he gets such confidence that he'll be the one to propose some laws next year, but about that, we'll see what's waiting for him. Minister Dinkic spoke of decentralisation of the tax system, about opening up at the level of local self-government of some tax administration offices, which of course has nothing to do with decentralisation. What he was saying would be deconcentration, because there's no autonomy in the IRS. There's a subordination there, and that's how it has to be. So, like many times before, the minister tried to deceive the public with some kind of his stories, as if those people who follow this assembly do not have their brains and do not use their brains, but Minister Dinkic will give them these every time their brains are washed out. So then he says -- he recommends to the municipalities that these funds they receive, these transfer funds, not to spend on wages, but to plan them for investments. Imagine what a demagogue lie that is. Well, as much money as it's supposed to be, it's not enough to pay, let alone investment. That's exactly what my colleagues in the SRS were talking about, who are the presidents of the municipalities. At all, this problem of decentralisation, the problem of identifying funds at local self-government levels, we, of course, never speak individually of these funds that the government provides for municipalities and cities, because of course no one has an argument, nor can it say that some funds are reduced to one municipality to increase the other municipality. That's why we only speak in principle. First, the amount of 15.4 billion dinars, passed on to municipalities and cities for 2006, according to the SRS, is insufficient for a normal functioning of local self-government. What's happened before is continuing. In the distribution of these funds, there are no municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija, but there are still funds for municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija all classified in the Coordination Centre, and we all know what bad experiences are with spending money at the Co-ordination Centre, at least at the time Nebojsa Covic was there; apparently similar work, so I almost told Mladjan Dinkic instead of Nebojsa Covic. So, it would have been better if the minister had talked a little bit here, when he was already talking about transferring funds to local self-government and the property of the local self-government he allegedly plans to transfer to them, and that problem that is present in most municipalities in Serbia, which is the result of the poor Law on Local Self-Government, which we Serbian radicals were talking about at the time when the law was passed. Today, you don't know who the ruling majority is, or who is proposing the municipal council, or who's voting it. A papaziani was created, and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government apparently has no solution and there are no answers to questions and to solve problems that are present today throughout Serbia. Today I don't know what day it is that Minister Loncar doesn't advertise to resolve the issue of the Surcin municipality. There's still a group of criminals who stole two offices. Imagine, they made stamps, or fakes, just wondering who made them stamps. They wrote some sort of solution to get the president of the municipality, the municipal council, the chiefs, the chiefs. They sealed this with some fake forged seal and all that Minister Loncar has and it is not enough for him to take appropriate measures, and on November 26th, it expired when he had to impose a forced administration into the Surcin municipality. I've been asking that as a business question here twice during the last session and I repeat it now. I call on Public Minister Lončar, I urge the public of Vojislav Kostunica to order his minister to resolve the issue in the municipality of Surcin, to introduce a forced administration there, that the citizens of Surcin do not suffer, because they do not know who to turn to, do not know who they are, or these people who are normally and legally elected and formed the municipal administration, they are trying to function, but in very difficult conditions. I will only comment on two members of this transfer law, Articles 4 and 5. Article 4, which states that the transfer funds of Article 3 of this Law, which are the essentials of this Law, is the minister responsible for finance affairs, in the text below, the minister, or Mladjan Dinkic, transfers to the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade, to account for the payment of current transfers from other levels of government over the period from 15th to 25th of the month for the current month, amounting to 1/12 of the amount set out in Article 3 of this Act. Chapter 2: "If the implementation of the funds referred to in Article 1 threatens to be implemented by the Constitution and by special laws laid down by the Republic, the Minister may temporarily reduce, or suspend, the funds referred to in Article 1 of this Article and inform the Government immediately, in accordance with Article 7(4). The law on the budget system, etc." What does this position 2 mean? It means that Minister Mladjan Dinkic with these means will behave as he has shown in practice, that he will define which of those funds you will vote here to get, when he will get them, whether he will get them. He can at any moment determine that the conditions laid down in this Article 2 have been met that budgeting has compromised the execution of another law, even as he says here in the Constitution, I just don't know what it will do for him to enforce the Constitution, but who knows what he meant. I guess he thinks it's more sound when he writes the Constitution and the law and then what can we expect? Gentlemen, my dear fellow presidents of the municipalities of the SRS, do not count on these funds, but rely on your pecs and your pecs, as the People's Proverbs says, to find out for yourself, be assured that Mladjan Dinkić will not grant you these funds. That's why they want those who, I don't know whether they're ruling the G17 or some close party, there will certainly be defined these assets, and that's the essence of both this law and this member. Article 5 is a reminder of what we disputed with Minister Dinkic here when he spoke about the budget, and that member says - the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade can plan in 2006 the total funds needed to pay employees' salaries, financed from their budgets in accordance with and in accordance with Article 19. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If you forget and if the Serbian public has forgotten, that 19th member says they are paid in local self-governments next year can increase maximum by 9%, and you can see how much inflation is already in this year and what awaits us next year. Definitely, unfortunately, double-digit inflation. There are all economists who are dominant in Serbia, even in Europe, who agree with the fact, and local self-government and state budget users will only be able to raise salaries by 9%. But there's more to it than that, some able-bodied president of the municipality can fire half their employees and raise their salaries by 50%. This is what this budget law provides and what is actually contained in this Article 5. Mladjan Dinkic and the government of Vojislava Kostunica are thus trying to force the presidents of municipalities around Serbia to give people cancellations, as if there were so few unemployed and so many split cancellations as it has been in Serbia since 2000, so now it should happen in local self-governments. And worst of all, this is going to produce fantastic abuses. No obligation, no deadline, no percentage, but simply, the goodwill of some president of the municipality, he thinks he'll raise his salary to the employees, but in order to do so he has to fire 5, 10 or 30% of his employees. How the municipality of the administration will function, how the citizens will do what they are supposed to do, much the concern of Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for what they really are are the life problems of Serbian citizens. Once again, the presidents of municipalities who do not want to share cancellations, which they do not have to do, they will have to explain to their municipal administration employees that only 9% have been raised in this municipality, and in the one where the president of the municipality fired 30% of them were raised by 39%. So another law proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which creates the possibility of abuse, in this case through Article 4 of the abuse of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and through Article 5 of the municipality's president. This is a very bad law, first of all, because it provides for very little resources for local self-government, for municipalities and cities, and for the city of Belgrade, and then for these possible abuses. Imagine the abuses that will take place in the city of Belgrade in the use of the funds foreseen for Belgrade when Bogdanovic and Bojan Stanojevic get their hands on it, so when they hire best man Bojan Stanojevic for some more asphalting, to wash more money, little is what they do in Nemanja Street in Belgrade. So, ladies and gentlemen, we Serbian radicals will not vote for this, because in no way do we want to participate in the abuses of the use of people's money, and what Mladjan Dinkic shares here, and you will accept, these are the people's money divided according to the will of Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23776	Mr. Angelkovic, since you were on the list after Mrs. Radeta, you have now arrived, so first Mr. Angelkovic, Mr. Krasic, and then Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23777	I'd like to thank you, Mr. President, and I apologize for having to do some other errands yet, and I'd like to say a few sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23778	Mr. Mircic, please don't throw it away, I've already warned you twice about throwing it away. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic, be kind, I'll give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23779	I wouldn't, of course, enter the figures mentioned in this law on the transfer of funds to local self-government, it's always a difficult question, because every municipality is a small amount of funding no matter how much you give. Here's the more question, we discussed last year on the Finance Committee and until today's day it's not resolved, the rules, the way the funds for the transfer to municipalities are determined, i.e. For local self-government. So as long as we're going to go to this system to raise funds to local self-government by some system, whether it's 15%, 20% compared to last year, it's all without any rules. He who is closer to the cashier, who is closer to the ministry, who is closer to the minister than the power ratio in local self-government, gets more, and whoever is further, he will get less. You're going to tell me that there are some rules when it comes to the initial position, but it's clear that we didn't get a report here how many municipalities received during the year from the reserve budgets so that it's also the basis. It is clear that last year a major shift was made when it came to some municipalities, regardless of the criteria, and now those who were privileged last year and who got much more, I mean last year, now with this increase 19.6% they are even more privileged than they were in earlier years. Now I wouldn't even be saying this, I have to be honest, I wouldn't answer a word, if I hadn't accepted as an individual last year, and we as an SPS didn't accept that we were voting on this law on condition that Mr Dinkic, the finance minister, who said by 31 March of the current year, would have proposed a law that lays down some criteria, rules on funding, or the transfer funds of the Republic. Clearly, it is not a problem to set criteria, I also know from these discussions that we had that the Conference of Cities proposed these criteria, but it is not for the Conference to propose these criteria, but for the Ministry of Finance to propose these criteria and for us in the Assembly to decide on it. And the criteria must be clear, so the number of inhabitants, per capita, if we can say so, the number of kilometers of local roads, the number of inhabitants up to 15 years, more specifically the number of schools, the number of kindergartens and national incomes. When we talk about national income, it is the second part that is very important, because it is necessary that we adopt a law on regional development. If we do not adopt a law on regional development, we, therefore, think of what we adopted last week, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, will in the right sense not provide regional development. And we need this law on the financing of the local community, as Mr Dinkic called it in the opening statement, and the regional development law is compatible, simply to keep in mind that we will develop Serbia evenly. If that is not available, then the underdeveloped will be increasingly underdeveloped, and these developed so-called, because no one has been developed in Serbia, they will not progress as they should. The third thing I'm saying is, taking care of the time that is extremely important to us, it's this law on the return of property to local self-government. I must say, we voted against putting the proposed law on the agenda, not because we are against restoring property to local self-government, on the contrary, we are to return, but it is impossible to return before we get a good and quality law in the Assembly, which the government should propose, and it must contain, and it should contain a final account, a list of the assets that the Republic has at its disposal. So without that, there is no final account in the company, without that list of assets at its disposal, it is impossible to repay that property. When we say return of property, we have to separate some things, what is it and what objects are built with local self-dependence. What was built by a local self-help, why don't we give the local community the right to have these facilities, the homes of culture, the homes of health and the like, those made by local self-dependence. Also, it must separate what is done by detachment from the state budget, because it cannot be handed over to the municipality of a lake and dam built by the dominant means of the Republic, it can be that part, 20, 30, or 40%, built by local self-government, it can be a shareholder society, but it can't be everything. Therefore, I think it is necessary for me to be here for 31 March in the next few months, but in 2006, because in 2005, it is not, that we in Parliament get these three laws, a law on even regional development, a law on the return of property to the municipal local self-government and the law on the transfer funds of the Republic, in which way these funds will be allocated. In the SPS, we expect this law, we will work together on it, but we want the Government to come to the proposal by one studio paper of these three laws, and, of course, any disagreement on this budget would lead these local self-governments to such a situation that they can't adopt their budgets on 20 December, which would be bad, and therefore we vote on this current proposal, but we ask that it not be again, be March 31st, but may it be March 31st, 2006. I thank the president for letting me speak for two minutes more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23780	Thank you, you will easily reciprocate by continuing to hold a session. It only takes a step back, it's a good direction, but it's not a good direction. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Goran Ilic appeared, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23781	I'm not going to start with what Mr. Angelkovic said. I understand Mr. Angelkovic, he was not allowed to use the right Serbian words, but to interpret, he said Dinkic had deceived him because Dinkic said that for this year, or for 2006, a single criterion would be made, which should objectively determine how many of these transfer funds the Republic needs to focus on each of these municipalities. And to be objective, before the transfer funds are directed, first of all, to cover the so-called. Trusted jobs that have been handed over to local self-government. This is not the first time, of course, what Mr. Angelkovic observed. We are constantly exposed to the epochal proposals of the law, and their epochality and exclusion last for about two or three months, because later comes the amendment and addition of that law. In those 200 laws signed by Markovic, 50% are likely amendments and amendments and additions to certain laws. At first, I'd have to state a very precise position of the SRS. We have not submitted any amendments to this bill, which is not typical of the SRS as the only opposition party in the National Assembly, because this law, with another regulation, belongs to that group where we do not want to intervene. It is primarily the Government Act, the Ministry Act, which is the first group, because we believe that whoever has the majority is authorized to regulate the form of his organization, how he will exercise power. This is the second law. If we don't intervene in this law because, if we intervene with some amendment, that would mean that in Article 3. We propose the bill to increase the amount of funds in some position, but at the same time, to one of the positions to reduce the amount of funds. We couldn't use something like that at this point, we couldn't find adequate arguments and criteria, and then every amendment of ours would be interpreted, we'd submit an amendment, and we'd ask for funds to be increased there in those municipalities where they're radicals in power, and we'd ask for funds to be reduced where some of the parties that make up power are in power. That's not what we want to do. Several presidents of municipalities, who are also MPs of the SRS, have pointed to the problem. I would just quote Mr. Blazic, who said, here I am authorized on behalf of Kickinda to say, delete all these funds just let Dinkic resign. The Kikinda municipality does not want any money from the Republika Srpska budget, only that Dinkic is no longer seen as finance minister. It's about as much as this in Nis, we vote to remain a Smiler, even though we know he was in prison and punished, just so that the Democrats don't come to power. So, according to the system of minor evil. The issue of this law is being looked at, and I must tell you, he has his seal on account of promises made by Dinkic at the end of last year or at the beginning of this year that he will sort it all out in relation to some other years when a similar regulation was passed. The problem is, we're not defined by local self-government. When this assembly was deceived by Nebojsa Covic, with those two laws on local self-government and local elections, he did not move within the frameworks of the constitution foreseen for local self-government, and we have practically formally-legally this one-stage local self-government, quite defined powers and competences, with indications that all jobs can be transferred. And then we have a situation where other regulations don't follow it to the end, and in the end, when all these problems come down to money, then we come up with a bill like this, where only problems and shortcomings are being identified and, rightly, some people point out that some of the municipalities are privileged. Because if you take any of the criteria from the existing ones, you will see that these criteria were not decisive when determining the amount of funds transferred to municipalities in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In order not to go back to that theory, I'm leaving that part possibly to return some variant of the law on the property of local self-government, where we're going to explain and explain our amendments to this very bad proposal. It is so bad that you realize that you need to withdraw, not only did you not agree to go through an emergency procedure in this agenda, but there are so many shortcomings that you have to withdraw and go with something else, which would be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But to return to the limits of this framework that exists and it is defined by the Budgetary System Act, the 2006 Budget Law and the corresponding memorandum that follows this policy. What is characteristic of this bill? The bill, according to reason, recognises a very poor income structure and expenditure of local self-government. On one case and to prove it, it especially happened after 2000, when the government of Zoran Djindjic carried out a real centralisation of public finances. If the previous government had done it, we would have been bombed today, too, if you knew. They executed an absolute centralization of the finance. If you don't mind, gentlemen, take the bill and just pay attention to the text on the other side of the argument. You will see that on the basis of the income tax that remains local self-government and on the basis of the property tax, the local self-government of its budget provides 48% of the funds. If 14% is added to that, as an average percentage based on these transfer funds, above all on Article 3. The bill, then comes to a total of 62%. So 62% of the total income of local self-government, that's the average, is the means that practically provides for the Republic. Calculate yourself, 38% remain for the classic original revenues of local self-management, which are not restricted by regulations, are limited by the Budget System Act in principle and are, in a way, limited by the Memorandum of Budgetary Policy. This structure suggests that you are leading two separate paths, mutually opposite, and that you represent all of us that this is European, epochal and exclusive. They don't say it's professional anymore, since we proved they got their diplomas in that gutter next to the National Theatre. You have no right to call for local self-government, because this centralisation never existed in Serbia. Now, let's get this straight, I'm not challenging you, I'm just telling you the facts that I'm trying to bring your song and your story closer to the citizens so they know what it means when you coward, it's not that. That's what you inherited from these yellow ones. Is it possible to find a solution in the existing legal system? When I say that to the legal system, I mean the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Local Elections, the existing Law on the Budgetary System and the existing budget law solutions. It's impossible. Since it is impossible to find it legally, we do not want to participate in this story and to submit amendments. So I remind you again of what Mr. Blazic said, Kikinda says - take all this money you've given us, just move Dinkic. Let me remind you, in the same way it was discussed in 2002 and 2003 for Bozidar Djelic. Of course, he's gone. It's gone, it's long gone, it's mentioned, it hasn't returned, it's dawned on us. But it's been dark since expert Dinkic started running these things. If at the end of last year it was found that it was applied to the criteria, and they exist in the Budgetary System Act, I do not enter into the quality of these criteria, it was wrong, and it was wrong here, it was recognised for this speaker by the minister last year when a similar law was adopted and when he promised that everything would change, we are now coming into a situation to say - we took what was scheduled for 2005 and we only had two interventions: the first one - that the growth of funds for 2006, when it comes to cities, four percent, and when it comes to municipalities - 19.9 percent. You said it was a rapper. If you apply these two percent to cities and municipalities, you'll see this isn't applied properly either. And you kept what you realized wasn't good, because that's the base based on which you applied these percentages and came up with the data for 2006. Just to remind you what inflation is in 2005, you know that. If you want to preserve the substance, if you want to preserve your interventions at the same level as they were, then the ordinary logic says - increase by that percentage of inflation and you have solved the total funds that are planned for the transfer. That's 15.4 billion dinars, I think. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the public spending of that part of local self-government in Serbia will be 112 billion dinars in 2006. So that's where we don't want to keep you company in these changes. We are telling citizens of all places in the Republic of Serbia that what you may be doing in the amendment debate is representing some amendment for my village to get more, for my city to get more, for my municipality to get more, it is a simple transparent prank against those voters and it should not be taken into account, because if you do not have a good foundation, of course the roof must be bad and, of course, it is only a matter of the moment when that roof will fall. I believe that Mr Dinkic, when he said this was his last law, was really his last law, not because he was going to pass some new law that would regulate it, but that he would be the last time to do anything when it comes to government work. It will be, it will be, it will be, it will be. I told you I'd end up with the Democratic Party's bankruptcy, so they're gone. You just choose, and you'll see how you get through. Let's move on, the one who proposed this law, let's say he doesn't know anything about the Constitution, the right one, the economy, but he doesn't respect anything. Excuse me, how could you write in Article 4 what's in paragraph 2? How? Where did you find the basis to write something like that? Explain to me, please, who is the founder of the school. With whom do the collective contract be concluded, the unions of education? Do they conclude a collective agreement with local self-government? As far as I know, they don't. According to those three trade unions, when the people roll the streets, they reach the government, then the minister of education, then the finance minister, and the Prime Minister won't accept them, they conclude a collective contract. What does a collective contract have to do with a collective agreement concluded between the government, or through some ministry, and a union of educators with local self-government? What does that have to do with anything? Who pays the salary to the educators? Government. Then why are you accusing local self-government and punishing the system - if you don't do it, you'll be denied money for something else and a third. If local self-government wasn't, and you heard it, there were a lot of community presidents who said they were paying it off, that it wasn't any problem and why you threatened people. From these pairs, transfer funds are funded by trusted businesses, first of all. These are originally state affairs, which are entrusted to one of the authorities of local self-government in the first degree because of more efficient work and organisation. Why are you threatening? Why are you deprived of the funds? How can you deny funds to someone who has not signed a collective contract, which is only for one part of the material cost? The collective contract does not regulate the material costs of business. Even so, who knows what Lalovic wrote after you forged that law. You may be applying some unpublished text. Anything is possible with you. You falsified that law. If you falsified it and it's in forgeries, then publish that falsified text. How can a foreign contractor be a local self-government? Here's the president of the municipalities, did you sign any collective agreements with teachers and teachers? You're not. Dinkic can do anything, he doesn't like the Constitutional Court, I don't apply the decision; the Supreme Court, I don't apply the decision; the police haven't arrested, I'm not applying, I'm pushing away, and now the poor guy's running away, he's waiting for Carla del Ponte, she can't do it without him. I guess they ended up sitting in the government, holding a press conference, taking pictures, coming back and having him hear something here, or he's gonna run back into our jeans. You bring confusion and contention from the municipality to the municipality. We will not be in the debate to show you why this municipality, with so many and so many thousands of inhabitants, with so many schools, kindergartens, health institutions, etc., has been given three times as many municipalities with more population, higher numbers of schools, higher numbers of health institutions, etc. We're not going down to the level to talk to you like that. We want in principle, and since laws like this are passed, there used to be transfer funds, some times were - the participation of municipalities, until Nebojsa Covic deceived you by the new Law on Local Self-Government, which you all claim is wrong, that it is bad and that you insist on it, you will not change it. Gentlemen, you've made a plot here. I am precisely recognising here the instrument that you provide large funds for future elections. You see exactly where an abnormal amount of funds was given compared to a similar municipality, you'll see that the difference in funds is 50-150 percent. Furthermore, you are adhering to some independent MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so you give municipalities from their territory four times more than you would give any other municipality that is about the same or similar to any of the indicators you may have used. I think you got yourself a bad job. Of course, you'll vote all of that. I have no intention of distracting you from that. No, I encourage you to take as much action as possible, to vote this bill as possible and to fall, among other things, on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23782	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23783	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill that is ungrateful, in principle, and for whoever proposes it, and especially for someone who, by some deeper analysis, would be in a position to reduce the transfer funds that are intended for one municipality in order to increase the transfer funds to another municipality. This has always been and remained a way for a local populist policy to be implemented in the assembly debate, how some MPs to stand out from this pay phone, by seeking to increase the funds of their municipality, and then regularly, as a duty officer, the minister, who is known, otherwise, as a man who does not tell the truth, is a continuity when it comes to that man, and then he says, "I agree, but tell me which municipality to take away." It is the method and method of work applied by this minister, whether as governor or as finance minister. And today, in the interpretation of the opening statement, he presented a series of false information. Not to say what is repeatedly by the SRS, for reminders, mentioned. Last year, when the debate on this law was being held, he promised that it would no longer be on these criteria, so we see for ourselves, as the Serbian would say, he agreed. We can say he didn't keep his promises, but it's not an adequate term, it's a rich language, and especially for a person an adequate expression. So he lied. Secondly, he said it was a real increase in funds when it comes to the transfer funds entrusted to municipalities. Where's the truth? The truth is only in the nominal value he expressed, but a real increase so-called. You can't see the trust funds anywhere. It is seen in municipalities, approximately, that there is an increase, not as much as the minister said. When it comes to cities, there has been a real reduction in the funds that have been entrusted. At first glance, it's debateable, we can discuss how much inflation is recognised compared to real, how much the minister will finally admit that inflation, whether it's double-digit, whether 12 or 17%, but the essence is next. One of the criteria that makes this kind of asset, e.g. cities, it is to maintain existing infrastructure when it comes to education, health care, especially when it comes to pre-school institutions. The criteria also include the level of development and equipment of these institutions. What's the minister doing now? The minister consciously reduces the funds allocated to the cities. It's the only thing you can see clearly from this bill. This story of a real increase in funds in the case of cities shows that it is not based on the truth, or is not based on this document. It turns out again that the minister is knowingly deluding, which would say he's lying. When it comes to municipalities, there are earlier fixed criteria on the basis of which the funds are allocated. One of them is the total number of inhabitants, the area on which the municipality is spread, the development of infrastructure, the number of employees in education, the number of health employees, the number of employees who are, for example, in preschool institutions. When you look at the number of inhabitants, if you take a simple analogy, that there is a more developed infrastructure, that the number of employees is higher, that the level of infrastructure is much higher, you will see that there is a special criterion, which basically has that the minister would still lie, but the criterion that results in the following: that where they are not party thinkers, where they are not the same ideological followers, there was taken the criteria of the Minister's will, or rather, will. What kind of consequences it's going to cause, he's not interested in it. Why? Because it counts that these municipalities, whether they want to or not, will be able to beg his highness, Serbia's largest liar, Minister Dinkic. Why? Because the maintenance of schools, preschools and health institutions will be at stake. If inflation is now officially recognised by some members of the government 17%, this is a projected allocation of funds that implies that inflation will be much greater than the minister projected during the assignment. The question is, where will this inflation stop? It's a real loss. What's the point? The essence that for this money each municipality must provide material resources or conditions for the maintenance of infrastructure. The price of these funds is rising, and the funds that are allocated to the municipality, based on monthly payments, are seriously falling on them and will come into a situation, whether they want to or not, to beg the minister. When the minister prays, it is understood that there is always one political condition, which is characteristic, among other things, for the minister. Wherever it appears on Serbia's territory, if the president starts talking about raising funds, about supporting an investment, he says -- he can, but start a party, give me members, so I'll see, not G17, but some of his electricity. Don't think I'm making it up, some G17 know it well. If they want to confirm, we will be grateful to them, not us Serbian radicals, but Serbian citizens to see what the criterion is. This is the essence based on Minister Dinkic's transfer funds and the allocation of these transfer funds to individual municipalities and cities. What's our perspective, what's our future? Clear - there will be bankruptcy of municipalities and cities, while the minister will act as a master who will decide, conditionally speaking, on life and death. It's the worst situation. This isn't the first minister to work like this. Many have worked before him, but fortunately they were not full - time. I think that such happiness will again cheer the citizens of Serbia and that this will not be a full mandate either. Let's leave the character and the minister's misdemeanor, see how realistic it is when it comes to the distribution of these funds. It says: the criteria of undeveloped municipalities. There are criteria where he could in some way give priority to those municipalities that have special treatment, for several reasons, devasted municipalities. There are a number of reasons why many municipalities should have special treatment when it comes to transfer funds. What criteria did he apply here? Where he needed to fulfill his idea, to achieve the goal, to political approval, whether his coalition partners or his party colleagues, there he used the criteria, most likely with the reason that they were underdeveloped municipalities. Where the opposite party interests are, where they are not ideologically defined as a minister, there he said: wait for the law on the return of property. Here comes the famous minister who made a big mistake from this pay phone. Why am I telling you you're the biggest liar? At least it would be normal for you to come out and apologize to the person you called from this pay phone, defending the Budget Law or defending that Corruption Act, which was already the law, to come out and apologize, not to use and abuse some information that is in the domain of banking secrets, and then abuse them by thinking you're going to divert the discussion. It's good, whenever you're welcome. What is evident and the fact is that we Serbian radicals have nothing against what eventually and larger funds have been allocated to certain municipalities. We're not a political party that's going to use that fact to say -- you know, Minister, you were wrong. These municipalities need to be allocated funds, but they must not be denied funds to other municipalities. No one can be impressed when they look at this paper to see exactly where the minister was generous, especially when it comes to municipalities where Serbian radicals or municipalities are located where political parties are outside the coalition authorities. There's a clear criterion, there's not much to think about, or that you think there's another reason. He saw exactly whether he or his associates were tasked with closely following it, but you can see it. It wouldn't, after all, be any damage to the operation of the SRS, but when you look at the territory of Vojvodina, then you directly damaged 14 or 20 municipalities in Vojvodina. You can't just put a sign of equality between a political party that holds power and the interests of citizens of the municipality. It's a disaster and it leads to destruction. We are always about the fact that the larger the transfer funds are allocated to municipalities, but what's the fact that when you look at the needs when it comes to the entrusted affairs of certain municipalities that the government has entrusted them with, they haven't changed. Their level, their shape hasn't changed, but the funds allocated to do these jobs have been reduced. We are not saying that it should be increased by some rule, but what is the logic, as the minister then explains, says -- they take the criteria that, on the basis of the scale and level of jobs performed by municipalities as trusted jobs, they are allocated these funds. Neither the volume nor the level is reduced nor increased, but the resources are reduced. So that criterion also serves, conditionally speaking, as an excuse for all the untruths it makes. Someone here said well, instead of talking about this law, I guess they planted another file on him, so he started some story that had nothing to do with this law. This law directly affects the fate of municipalities, and fortunately these are not the most significant means. They have original incomes. In most municipalities, what the people would say will come out of this crisis. But this law, apart from what we Serbian radicals are talking about, aside from some strange criteria and other than the Ministry of Finance's intention to condition the municipalities in the most direct way today and tomorrow, shows what kind of policy the Ministry will run and when it comes to original incomes. Why? Because already in Article 6 of the law, which it proposes, in the second position, it foresees something that is not in accordance with any law, that it will react if a collective contract by local self-government is not respected. What does local self-government have to do with a collective contract? What reason is there to announce already in this law that the minister will react when it comes to the original revenues. Because if he allows himself such a thing, who's gonna stop him from going down tomorrow and putting his hand in the halls of municipalities, especially when we have this central vault. Then we can only pray to God or look at cards or anything else, to guess when Mladjan Dinkic, a famous robber, a villain and a liar, will have mercy on the municipalities of money. What, did I find a mild expression for that?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23784	Find, Mr. Mircic, a more appropriate term.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23785	And they're too mild. There are even more appropriate expressions, but this is not a place and a way to use them. He's just up the street, you're right, co-worker. He is for the street and it's a shame to have him on the street. Why? Because there's more and more expressions of his will. He took the right, for reasons unknown to us, to determine the fate of this Serbia, and when it comes to municipalities, and when it comes to the Republic, and when it comes to the full financial functioning and control of Serbia. No one's ever taken that right as much as he has before. But if we don't stop him now, with a clear warning to the citizens of Serbia, using this opportunity when the debate is on the allocation of funds to municipalities and cities, the question is when will a man like this be prevented? Keep your mouth shut, but you'll be too late, believe me, it'll be too late. Here's an example of the lesson, so the suns who, like you from the NGOs, went to a political organization, were all saints, burned and burned, lived as a parasite on one party's infrastructure, were literally all-powerful, all-powerful, and so were you now, colleagues and colleagues, yawning from the bench, their colleagues yakking, but it wasn't worth it. Events and situations simply imposed a solution that thieves and criminals must go to jail. Why? No matter what political party they belonged to, no matter how or how they participate in power, they are famous and recognizable by their actions. These actions, thieving and crime, directly harm Serbia's citizens and we cannot discuss improving the work and functioning of municipalities and cities until thieves and criminals file an account. We're talking about tycoons, bribery, and in front of us is a government member who's been breaking in, breaking in with long pipes, putting a sock on his head. What do you do, clap your socks or your head? We can get both of you, it's not a problem, but you have a minister who's a member of your party. You must simply correct the work and way of doing this ministry. Why? Because, according to some of the SRS counterparts, this will reflect clearly on the functioning of local self-government already next year. Those who think they've received enough funds, we're warning them now that they're wrong. These are only trust funds, transfer funds for trusted tasks carried out by the municipality. And the question is how will those original revenues come true. Why? Because they are directly in function or dependent on economic development, because they are directly in function and depending on how much traffic is carried out on the municipality and in what extent, as the people would say, is being torn up, what you have to sell, what you have to buy. It's gonna sell foreign goods, but there's no money to buy. It's full of receipts, so-called. Incomes, but how will it be charged when people are growing more and more, or an increasing number is those who are without pay. Where's the cause? It's not the cause of the president of the municipality, it's not the cause or reason in the possible composition and structure of the local parliament, it's the ministry. There's a cause at the Ministry. If you question the functioning of municipalities, don't get carried away with the idea and the idea that peace will be in Serbia. There won't be one. Any dissatisfaction, especially at the local level, that stems primarily from the fact that living conditions in a municipality are not normal or not adequate, is a real danger of causing unrest and dissatisfaction in Serbia. But finally, let's see how the minister forgot even those municipalities where national minorities live. If only he'd taken the same criteria, no, but he'd been making discrimination. And he did it selectively. How is it that municipalities where representatives of its political party or more specifically its currents, members of national minorities, make up the majority, receive more funds than individual municipalities in Vojvodina. So let's take a look at Vojvodina. You see exactly the difference between municipalities. So, it's not enough for him to do this, it's discrimination in the municipalities of Serbia, it's even good for this, that within the municipalities where and how sensitive the issue is when it comes to security and security, both ultimately and in international relations, and it abuses it. How? You cannot explain that in the municipality of Subotica there is less developed infrastructure than in other municipalities. You can't explain that in a municipality with more population, with more schools, it takes less money than in municipalities where it's less represented and where it's less developed. We can't talk about it. We can if you defend political attitudes, but by defending political views, you stand aside from a man who, whether you want it or not, must one day account and answer. He won't have a chance to talk to the media, not from this pay phone, to tell fairy tales, to defend himself, but to have to speak to the competent institutions, the competent authorities, to say what he did and how he did. This is the least of the problems when it comes to the overall criminal work and the work of the minister. This is the least of it. Why? Because the municipalities, thanks to local authorities and local leadership, will somehow be able to survive. They won't be able to maintain the infrastructure, they won't be able to develop it, but they will survive. There were worse times, worse conditions, so the municipalities remained, but in these worse conditions and worse times, there was neither him nor his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23786	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23787	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Mr. Chairman, who is with this kind of street dictionary and who knows best about Parliament and will decide, but it is your duty to give notices to speakers and colleagues who serve such a dictionary. That's one. Two, yes, we have gone from NGOs to a political party, and the least they have the right to give us is those who went from DB to a political party, so I ask you to keep that in mind the next time you address this pay phone. Chairman, since I assume there will still be things like this for the street during the day, to make warnings, to treat the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23788	I asked Mr. Mircic to find more appropriate words. Therefore, I try to be cultural, and when I chair, and each of my cultures corresponds to Article 104 - nation MPs, they are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Therefore, I call for all of us to respect each other, and since this is not in a closed space, the people judge how much they respect each other. Mr. Mircic answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23789	It wasn't you, my dear young colleague, just an NGO, you were also one of a series of organizations that worked in a network of intelligence foreign services. That's funny to you, but don't get sick. There's documentation, there's evidence, where the leaders of your organizations appear in the past, before the five-octobar revolution, in the city of Budapest, in Hungary, so that they can receive the abbey neatly by the U.S. intelligence service. You want some more. As for those who came out of DB, DB means home service and compared to what you've been doing, it's less evil than working for foreign intelligence. As far as the SRS is concerned, here's an example. From the beginning of this call, we held a meeting, a closed session of the Security Committee in the BIA building. Seventeen MPs were present. Mr. Pejcic isn't here, my colleague Pejcic isn't here, we've been given the material, strictly confidential, with a warning to return the material. When we examine him as board members, let's get him back. Of the 17, only 16 were returned, one disappeared. Imagine where he was found. I'm with a member of the G17. I'm not saying that he's personally inclined to steal, spy, share classified information, but he's in such an environment. Maybe you forced him to do it, maybe the environmental impact had a consequence of him reaching out and stealing it. Why did he need it? I don't know. This is true, and what you say, the stories of the language that are recommended and the way you speak from this pay phone, you have to convince most of Serbia not to tell you about your minister what is original and popular. These are the nice words we convey, and if you hear the real, the original, the juicy, it would be good for you to pass on. Why? Because it would be a good time, because it's already begun to destroy your party, it already has its own electricity that's opposed to Labus, and it's not very nice for you to hear, but at least don't talk about it in the halls, because we're doing whatever we hear, remember, we'll take it out of this pay phone. There are no secrets when it comes to the functioning of parliament. Do not come near us and sneak up on us, individuals in the elevator, to tell me the information, as it is in Novi Sad, in the Payment Service, named the man who was Dinkic's wing. I don't care who the wing is. As far as I'm concerned, we'd best serve as a replacement for another organ, but wait until then.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23790	According to Business, deputy head of the parliamentary club, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23791	I also want to advertise Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because I really don't think it makes any sense or need to use these expressions when we talk to each other and when we talk to the citizens of Serbia. That's what we're bound to do for at least two reasons. The first is that we represent Serbian citizens, so based on the expressions and words used here, some might think that Serbian citizens are at that level of expression, which is certainly not true. Nicely educated citizens of Serbia, whether they are children of five or six years of age, do not use such expressions, and I guarantee it, both as a mother, and as someone who works with children, and as a citizen of Serbia. So, well-trained people in Serbia don't use words like that, we're their team, and we have to respect that. The second reason is that the publicly spoken word has its weight and another reason is that we have a certain impact on the citizens of Serbia and on the children of Serbia from this place, and I ask you to keep this in mind when you talk about this speaker to make a difference between what words are appropriate and which are not suitable for public address. As far as I'm concerned, they're inappropriate and street jargon and we're fighting for Serbia where this won't even be a street jargon. I want to quote you some other thoughts of the great people. For example, Jean Jacques Russo says this - swearing and ugly words are the arguments of those who are wrong. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: Who said that? Jean Jacques Russo, I've already read it. Karel Chapek said this way -- imagine what kind of silence would come from people just talking about what they know. I would ask you to talk about what we know, without insinuating what anyone has hidden, without paranoid ideas and thoughts, because it's really not appropriate for this place. In the end, La Brier said this - it's a real pain in the ass when a man doesn't have enough spirit to talk, and not enough brains to keep quiet. I invite you to talk about smart things and in a smart way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23792	I thank Parliamentarian Stojanovic-Plasic. I hope that we just passed the law on the SANU dictionary, everyone will be able to buy it, so whoever knows how to use it, it would be good to use it, and who doesn't know what to do, what we're gonna do, his problem again, so much about it. Let's move on, the word has a People's MP, Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23793	The Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is the local self-government, as all important meetings in Europe and the world today conclude, the development bearer and international co-operation and new projects and programmes, and as such in Serbia must be transformed, reformed and modernised. This government has started it by applying the Law on Local Self-Government, but we still have a lot of work to do along the way. When we talk about the law on transfer funds to local self-government, the minister himself said he expects this problem to be better solved on an absolutely rational basis when a law on the financing of local self-government is passed. Therefore, we are in a transit period when we talk about this problem, because if you remember last year, when we talked about transfers, so I have made an amendment that the transfer funds for Nis, from where I come from, are increasing, are promised to discuss it sometime in the spring. We did not solve the problem this way during the spring, and later, when this law was passed, that is, when his draft was written, local self-government at the city level, I am talking about four large Serbian cities, they only got four percent more and certainly the story of how much money was provided in this way, much more complicated. It is necessary to define these criteria in detail. Obviously, this could not have been the case and thus defined this legislative proposal, since there was likely a lot of difficulty in defining these criteria clearly. And e.g. These funds are less than what the budget memorandum envisioned, then they were talked about 9%, are smaller than projected inflation. That means the cities will get less money. Of course, it's not quite encouraging news for the cities, so for my own, and I don't want to, and this year I haven't invested amendments in this sense that these funds are being transferred to Nis, as it was done to Kragujevac to a greater extent last year, but I think we need to approach this problem in a studio way and hold to Mr. Minister's word that the law on the financing of local self-government, along with the laws we talked about here, is the property of local self-government and regional development, will finally define the place of local self-government and through this aspect. Local self-government today is burdened with many problems, and we all know that, and we all bear responsibility for that. There is no party parliament that is not in power in a municipality. I hope we agree that this influence of partocracy is really too great at the local level. There's talk of rationalizing local self-government. As for the number of employees, I completely agree and this process has begun, too, with the solutions that this government has adopted, but it seems to me that it needs to be very studioy, because it is clear that there are too many people there. This bureaucracy is significantly multiplicated in terms of needs, but the composition of people working in these services can indeed be corrected, by bringing professional, young and educated people, who will have the initiative to bring local self-governments to the level we need. That's really not a phrase. We also have in Nis extraordinary young people waiting for work, while, of course, we need to ensure that those who already work and who no longer have enough energy and this degree of education, and the kind of education, are modernizing local self-government, that they simply abandon their jobs in a very dignified way. So it's no threat, it's supposed to be a solution that's going to be good for everyone and it's possible to find it. The streamlining programme has already been launched, but I repeat, many parties have hired people in local self-government, which additionally burdens local budgets, while failing to take sufficient care of expertise. It's up to us to bring that criterion to the most important level. As far as the DSS is concerned, she has no dilemma that it will be one of the basic criteria. This law also provides for a restriction in salaries, I agree, that control should be done in more detail. If you look a little bit at local self-government, you'll see a paradox where the presidents of the municipality have more salaries than mayors in the same cities. So, we simply have to remove these illogicalities, and I really expect all of these laws to put local self-government at the heart of Serbia's social life, because as Europeans today understand local self-government, it is simply the bearer of development, the bearer of international co-operation, the project bearer, the forecasts, the definitions, the articulations, the concepts, the way in which a particular region reaches appropriate development. This really can't be done by the central government, because she doesn't know these problems and she doesn't need to know them the way people in the local government know them. If we reduce the influence of partocrats, if we bring capable, educated and young people, we will also bring local self-government where it should be, and that will be good for Serbia in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23794	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) We move on to a common principle search of 2-5rd item of the agenda:– PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE PREFERENCE OF UNPAYED PENSIONS AND REFERENCE OF PUBLICATIONS AND PORSE OF THE PUBLICATIONS IN THE PUBLICAL DebT, SOCIAL PROTECTION AND FINANCIAL SUPPORTS WITH DECOM I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 94, the joint principle of law on the proposals of the agenda under points 2, 3, 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours. I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 36 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and Independent MPs 9 plus 9 - 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPO MPs, two SDP independent MPs and five independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93rd item 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees under outstanding pensions and fines, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of unpaid pensions and fines, the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection and Social Security of Citizens and the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support to the Family with Children. Do the proposing representatives, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23795	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has spoken of better times, and it is clear that better times for pensioners are coming. They've already arrived this year. After 10 years, pension payments began in November in the current month for the previous month. Now, with these amendments and the additions to the law, the state is beginning to settle the debts that some previous governments have made, not by pacifying regular commitments to the pensioners after 15 years. The total state intends to pay 49 billion dinars over the next few years, and how much is the interest debt. Namely, debt for one and a half pensions to the PIO staff fund, as well as debt for 20.5 outstanding pensions to the PIO farmers' fund at this time totals 43.5 billion dinars. So 20 billion dinars are owed to pensioners of PIO employees, and farmers are owed 23.4 billion dinars, which is a total of 43.5 billion dinars. When we calculate the interest that we have proposed by this 8.5% yearly law, by the end of the payment that we have foreseen, a total of about 49 billion dinars will be paid out of the budget in the next period. Many probably did not believe that this debt would ever be compensated. However, the government has managed to create a budget surplus and the purpose of the budget surplus is to provide funds to settle some of the debts inherited from the past. The pensioners are certainly at the top of their priorities. We proposed several months ago a model of law, passed by the Assembly, to issue bonds that would settle this debt. However, there have been different opinions, and by some MPs, especially the Pensioners' Association. The pensioners demanded that the debt be paid in cash instead of in bonds. These laws are now allowing commitments to be paid in cash. As for the liabilities to PIO employees, the entire state owes 23.5 billion dinars, and maybe I did a permutation when I had a preliminary exposure. So, pensioners to the PIO fund employees of 23.5 billion dinars, with interest is a commitment of 25.5 billion dinars. Under this bill, the total amount of unmistakable liabilities will be charged at 8.5%, starting from the date of the first payment in December of this year, until the final payment in July 2008. In other words, payment of debt to pensioners starts on December 24th at the latest, so in a few weeks this year. All pensioners in Serbia, with 1,240,000 of them, can count on their regular November pension, i.e. the second part of November's pension, to receive another quarter of the current pension as the start of this old debt. So, in the previous law, it was planned to start paying off next year. We, however, have now organised the scheme differently. The payment will start a month early, so December 24th this year. It continues in July 2006 at the same amount, then in February 2007, in February 2008, and ends in July 2008. A higher dispersion has been made, as one payment requires eight billion dinars. If half the pension would suddenly be paid off, it would take eight billion dinars, and that would be a pretty pump-up of money in circulation. That's why we've divided it into six pieces, so four billion each, along with interest, as they move on, will be paid to the pensioners. So from this total debt, I said, it's 25.5 billion with interest, one sixth in these six periods that I've mentioned. Four billion dinars will be paid out specifically on December 24th this year, which is exactly enough to add 1,240,000 pensioners to their regular pension of one quarter of the current pension. In other words, if someone has a pension of 20,000 dinars, they will also receive an allowance of 5,000 dinars on December 24th, with their regular pension of 20,000 dinars. If someone has 10,000 dinars, they will receive 2.5 thousand dinars with their 10,000-dollar pension, so that anyone receiving a pension in Serbia can easily calculate how much money the postman will bring to him, or how much he will raise in the bank on December 24th. I repeat, there will be no payment in bonds, but in cash. As far as farmers are concerned, I'd like to say that the original plan was to start paying off the farmers' debts next year. Not pensions, pensions will be paid regularly, but debts based on farm pensions. However, the increase in agricultural pensions this year was 59% for the first 11 months. I don't mean to say, farm pensions are low, but the agricultural pension paid in November was 59% higher than the pension paid to farmers in December 2004. Therefore, the growth of agricultural pensions in the first 11 months, after a rapid increase in November, is 59% and 44%, respectively. The agricultural pension is actually 44% higher today than it was in December a year ago. As a result, given that the transfer, which is needed to regularly settle 12 pensions for farmers in the following year, is increased as much as 64% higher than it was in the budget for this year, then there was no room in the budget for the debt to start next year. In the coming years, the transfer for agricultural pensions is 64% higher than it was this year, but there is no financial space to start returning pensions from next year to farmers, as this growth has now been quite high and there are no resources to fund. On the other hand, we must also take care of other overall economic policy objectives. We have provided, as you know, for the first draft of the law stands today, because this law is in force until this assembly changes the existing law, that agricultural pensions are settled from 2006 to 2010. We haven't changed the final year of reconciliation, we've even cut the deadline, so instead of four years, it'll be three years, but the beginning of reconciliation is in 2007, with the fact that from the day of adoption of the law to the first payment, interest flows from 8.5% a year. So, on this major debt to farmers, which amounts to 20 billion dinars, interest starts immediately this year to be calculated by the moment of the first payment and is calculated until the last payment to the rest of the debt, so that payments to farmers will start in 2007 and be made in 2008, 2009 and will end in 2010 at a rate of one quarter of the total debt, with this law providing for a concrete month in which payment will be determined on the basis of a special sublegal act, in line with the liquid possibilities of the budget and budget implementation plan. So, in 2007, the first payment begins, given that we now, at this point, 59 percent more agricultural pensions than they were at the beginning of the year. As for the pensions of the largest number of citizens, therefore, the insurance company of the PIO staff, and I already mentioned that 1,240,000, the average pension in November was not high, amounting to 12,341 dinar. But compared to the average pension of December last year, so a year ago, which was 10,083 dinars, that's a nominal 22 per cent growth. So, the pensions paid in November this year are 22% higher than pensions paid a year ago. Given that inflation was 15.2 per cent in the first 11 months, real pension growth has so far been 7% in the first 11 months of this year. It's something above the growth of our country's gross domestic product, because we estimate we'll end up a year with six percent growth. So, pensions, despite being low, however, thanks to the government's measures, thanks to the laws adopted by this assembly, grew in real seven percent, nominally 22 percent, real growth was seven percent. In farmers, agricultural pensions are 44 percent more realistically, nominally 59 percent higher. Surely that we would all like pensions to be even bigger, but what is certain is that the most vulnerable pensioners are protected, it will certainly be more said by Mr Lalovic, a law adopted by this assembly, as the minimum pension is raised from next year. So I think this way some kind of justice is being served. On the one hand, we cut unnecessary expenditures, created a surplus; first we use surpluses to settle our debt to pensioners, which we inherited from previous governments. Also, the second way we're going to use it, I already said, we're going to cut taxes and pay contributions. I am sure most MPs in the National Assembly will support the bill. I invite you to vote for them. This time, I don't want to look back on the objections of those who are primitive, who are bastards and who have given themselves the right to judge themselves. History will judge us all. Unlike some who have an unclean conscience, my conscience is completely clean. I'm not afraid of any court, since I know what I was doing. And those who have made these debts, which we now settle, should be ashamed of them, let alone take their right to use the words they have spoken. But with bastards and primitive people, I don't fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23796	There's no warning, when you're toleranced to one, you have to be with the other, and everyone takes care of the viewers and their own electoral body what they're going to use. I said, I hope that soon the dictionary we adopted will come out, everyone will read it, and I hope that it will be applied and used, so that it doesn't be that we just adopted it. We adopted him in parliament, the 200th law was. Mr. Markovic, I understand you'd like a word with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23797	Chairman, when we've already adopted everything you've said we've adopted, that we should stick to everything you've said we should stick to, then I ask you to discipline the ministers who came here to explain the law, not to lecture the MPs. In particular, the minister must not say what Minister Dinkic said. They just came out of the parliamentary group of Minister Dinkic to tell us the thoughts and sayings of great people. Great! You didn't remember to mention another great man whose works were translated into six languages. It's Branko Ćopić and I'll have one of his sayings, exactly half of the sayings, today, from this pay phone, I say. He said, "I know you... "
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23798	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go. The advantage always comes first to the Rules of Procedure, so whenever the minister asks for a word, then the announced speaker, then the replica. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23799	Mr. Markovic, you weren't there, so you're probably not in the process with all the details. This isn't a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23800	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, I get it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23801	The replica was an insult, and I'm a well-mannered man and I have no intention of insulting anyone. I'd like to point you to Articles 101 and 104. No one here has silk ears and is immune to the use of any word. However, it is not good when one representing the state in the National Assembly, where there is no Bogoljub Karic, finds Bogoljub Karic. That's why I told you, so it's not an insult. I understood very precisely what Mr Dinkic meant. He meant Bogoljub Karic, Boris Tadic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Bozidar Djelic. But it's not good for him to tell us, because we share that opinion with him. We share an opinion with Mr Dinkic that it's about people like that. That, Mr Dinkic, is freely available on a TV show, in written submissions, even in criminal application against Bogoljub Karic, and Bogoljub Tadic, and it fits nicely, but it would not be good for someone to misread that you have addressed the MPs, and as I notice here, however, there are a few more members of the parties of the government, to call them that. If you call them that, know that they support you, that only they will vote for your law. If they vote for your law, it's practically the same society. It's not nice to do that. I understand, it is difficult to explain a bill on amendments and additions to a law that was passed a month ago, perhaps less, in this National Assembly. I understand your nervousness completely. But you must, you represent the state, these MPs represent the citizens, the people. They can be tolerated in some way if they exaggerate using words. You're a representative of the government. You have to explain what the subject is, so that you have nothing to do with your pledoaia about these two bill proposals to respond to. I understand that you are unhappy that Bogoljub Karic has not been arrested yet. Believe me, I'm unhappy. Maybe I'm even more dissatisfied than you are. Now, you see, you've been arrested by Anta Gotovina, who kept on this island probably those money of yours that you transferred there. The Cyprus thing probably ended up on those islands, and Ante Gotovina kept your money. You see, you're not offended, and that's the hardest insult there is. But I don't want to offend you again. I know it's hard for you to explain this bill. In the wrong place, you used some expressions, so you confused the public a little that this applies to these MPs sitting behind you, and we all know and share your opinion, because you said that about Bogoljub Karic, Boris Tadic, Cedu Jovanovic, your friend Nenad Chanka, Bozidar Djelic, and that I do not order that interest group, which stands in those positions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23802	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23803	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Angelkovic, you are, by chance, in the role of the chairman, I see that he is avoiding Mr. Markovic coming here, because it is a party colleague, you should have warned the minister, who, I am absolutely convinced, will never be a national representative, elected by the people, on any list, I think, a MP, yes, unlike us, he has to behave differently here, that he respects every MP of the people and that he must be silent and patient with everything that the representative of the people from the pay phone tells him. Mr. Minister, what you've done today on two occasions is inappropriate, and it's consistent with the provisions of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because the attitude of the first member says that the speaker must and is obliged to speak only about what is on the agenda. In the morning, explaining the law on the transfer of funds from the republican budget to units of local self-government, you completely confused the concepts. You're futuristic in some enthusiasm, I don't know where you're talking about some laws that you're going to pass, how it's going to be 2007, 2008. Who's asking you how it's going to be in 2007? Another month, two, three, how long all these blackmails will take with Kostunica and with the collapse of this government, we are going to go to an extraordinary parliamentary election. There's nothing for you to ask what's going to happen in 2007. If you are already responding to what the MPs are telling you, and they are the only ones, unlike you, you are somehow gathered here, there are 126, and 125 of you, so buy each other, so make transfers, scrape sometimes up to 129 - 130 to vote, the MP who comes out, and especially when it comes to Mr Milorad Mircic, who represents one of the largest SRS strongholds, and thank God we are strong everywhere, from southern Serbia to Novi Sad and Subotica, when he tells you everything he has told you, and what he told you - that you are a thief, a thief, I don't even know what else, he says as a representative of the people. There's another very important thing about Mr. Mircic. Now that he's on his way to Vojvodina, he's going to a big place, where the citizens are looking forward to it, in the number of thousands and more, because as we won the Tower in the extraordinary local elections, we expect the same thing in Palanca at the end of this month, he just asked me to tell you something. He's the chairman of the Assembly's Defence and Security Committee. As such, and above all, as a loyal servant of this congregation, for from the first time he is called by a messenger of the people, for all that he says he bears complete responsibility. Who better in Serbia than the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, which is one of the most formed people, will know what you are if it is not a colleague of Mircic's. It's absolutely true everything he said. You can only regret that you're such a man and that you've done all these unholy jobs. Leave it to the citizens of Serbia and those who wait for a colleague of Mircic, together with the rest of the radicals, to come tonight and turn to the SRS tribune, to welcome everything we do to expose more than the devastating moves and moves of the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23804	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23805	Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Here, I almost didn't have to, since I was going to suggest, Mr. Chairman, that the receiver and the bastard, who is also a criminal and a thief, should not sit in this room. It's a good thing he came out, he saved you from intervention in the Rules of Procedure. The fact that Mladjan Dinkic said that his conscience is peaceful is obviously, if he can't hear what the MPs tell him, of course, we Serbian radicals are telling the truth, and what hurts someone... Laugh, laugh, you won't be long, it's a problem that you have to deal with yourself. The fact that Mladjan Dinkic broke into the National Bank with a sock on his head, you can deny as much as you want. You know well that there are photos, that there are videos, that there are witnesses, that there are criminal charges. You know everything and you know it is. (Vladimir Humane, from the place: where have you been? You were behind him, you were just so poor, so tiny, so weak, so you didn't see, they didn't catch you in the chamber. If you think you're gonna confuse me, you're so screwed. So, the best feature about Mladjan Dinkic, in addition to what we Serbian radicals are saying, and we say that the thief, that he is a criminal, that he robbed the People's Bank in the most harsh way, that one day, and that will be very soon, surely and guaranteed to answer to the authorities, that he will go to long prison, that if he does not go to the institution recommended by Velja Ilic and Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23806	It remains for me once again to ask all those who are discussing here, and representatives of the citizens and representatives of the government, to take care of the dictionary, of the Serbian dictionary, and not of the Serbian Croatian, after we changed the law. When we read the dictionary, we'll see if they're all written in the dictionary. I'm asking you to be there to keep an eye on what you're about to say. Don't tell me who's going to say a word next. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: I have a proposal for the Rules of Procedure. He can't, Mr. Krassic. You don't have to suggest anything, to listen to Minister Lalovic. I think that's the smartest thing. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: You didn't give me the word in the Rules of Procedure? You accepted that. There's time. Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23807	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to brief you on the proposal to amend the two laws that have been submitted to the National Assembly for adoption. The first law I'm going to say is a proposal to amend the Social Protection Act. I want you to know why we're proposing to amend that law now. By the way, let me tell you that recently, at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we adopted a document - a strategy for reforming the social protection system in Serbia, which, as a result of the implementation of that strategy in the government, should give one comprehensive law of a reformed social protection system in Serbia for one or three years. During that period, by implementing this strategy, we will check individual solutions and ideas from this strategy and eventually come up with a comprehensive reformed social protection system and with one in general new law. The reason why we are proposing amendments to this law so quickly and urgently is the need and desire to significantly improve the material position of civilian people with disabilities, and those with 100% disability. Namely, what we have found, which is in the system and which lasts for at least 50 years, is an unusual relationship between receiving in the field of martial protection and receiving so-called. civilian people with disabilities. It's a big difference. One of these differences was present or is present in the right to receive other people's care and help. In fact, when it comes to the exercise of the right to other people's care and assistance, we now have in the system the next solution - that those who exercise that right in other people's care and aid to social protection regulations have one amount of that income, and those who exercise that right through a pension-inhabited fund have another amount of that income. Very unusual. There is a third level of that income, and that's in the martial-involvement sector. So it's essentially about the same problem, people who are 100% disabled, and have several different levels of rights to other people's care and help. The first step that we're doing, that's the proposal for these changes that you have ahead of you, is to first equalize when it comes to civilian people with disabilities, 100% people with disabilities, to equalize the amount of rights they're achieving on the basis of other people's care and help. This will practically mean that by adopting this law, we decide that these benefits based on other people's care and help increase from 60% to 160% for this group of civilian people with disabilities, so 100% people with disabilities. It's an essential amendment to this law that lies ahead of you. The application of the law, which is the law's solution, is due to begin on July 1st of the following year. We will most likely go with one amendment when it comes to harmonising and setting that amount, since the original idea was to start on January 1st, and then the basis for calculating that amount would be the average profit of 2005, however, since it will begin to be applied from 1 July 2006, then we will go with one change to make the basis of the average earnings in the first five months of 2006, so that in this sense we will not be damaged for so many of the ones we talk about. What size is that going to be? That will be 0.7 of the average earnings of the previous year. You can figure out what that is. To know what we're talking about, now you have foreign care and help statements, depending on how they're using it, somewhere between 2,000 and 4,000, about that level. By adopting this law, we will bring them into a situation, these disabled, that group, that their income from other people's care and help will be real about 12,000 dinars. So I'm saying that the increase from 60% to 160%, depending on what basis it's done. Of course what I'm talking about, these amendments to the Social Security Act, is one fire measure. We want to help these people immediately, and as I said, in the next period through the reform of the social protection system that will take place for a few years, we will naturally go towards equating, as far as possible, the position in the fighting disability and civil protection. Of course, that is never possible until the end, but I expect that we will significantly improve other things during that period. Another important thing when we talk about amending this law is a solution to which we remove certain restrictions when it comes to the number of children who can be accepted in the foster family. Now we have a solution that limits that number. We are now abolishing this restriction, because in practice it has proved that it is simply not smart, it is not wise, simply because there are families and people who are ready and more children to adopt into foster care and why by force of God, by force of law, would limit it when there is a whole mechanism that actually takes care of who can be a foster parent. So it just didn't make sense that solution, and we're using this amendment to get rid of that problem. This is the essence of amending the Social Protection Act, and as I said, the basic reason is to significantly improve the position of civilian 100% people with disabilities. The second bill of law that lies before you is a proposal to amend the Law on Financial Support for the Family. What are the motives and reasons for amending that law, and first I'd say what we're actually changing in it. You know that in time, when the Law on Financial Support for the Family was passed, the idea was that the state would take measures that could take to reverse in Serbia the white plague process that affected most of Serbia. That may, in my opinion, be Serbia's long-term and biggest problem. All that we are doing here, we are talking in this assembly, in each subsequent assembly, can be a five-rate and non-essential thing if this trend of white plague continues in Serbia, which, unfortunately, can, by natural process, solve both unemployment and all other problems, because there will be no people. I mean, unfortunately, the map of Serbia, when we talk about the white plague, has only two locations where we don't have a white plague. One is southern Serbia, Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedja, another location where we do not have a white plague is actually Raška area, that part there, and of course Kosovo and Metohija. Outside these two parts in central Serbia alone, which is really ironic and terribly difficult, the municipalities of Grocka and Mali Zvornik do not have white plague from the rest of central Serbia. It's about one really terrible problem, the long-term biggest problem of ours. As part of considering such a situation, such circumstances, such a trend, we should consider one more thing. Since these are the processes of great inerts, when they go down and you take the best and the smartest measures, it takes a lot of time to reverse the process. If this miracle were to happen in 2006, and unfortunately not, that the average family in Serbia has more than two children, if that were to happen, it would take us about 10 years to stop the process of the white plague that is now going on, and only then to move forward to have more of us. So it's a very serious problem, and about that, it's been passed in time by the Financial Support Act of the Family, the results are what they are, and I wouldn't be talking about it more widely. What's our idea is that, first of all, we suggest that a parental supplement be introduced for the first child. The motive and reason why it wasn't when the law was passed, why it wasn't foreseen, was some argument why we don't need it, but we want a second, a third and a fourth. It's of course a matter of one country's population policy, we go to the fourth child, not over the fourth child, it's a wanted family. However, there were various arguments about it. Life was running differently. Many municipalities in Serbia have, therefore, made their decisions in the local community to specifically determine the compensation for the first child. In Vojvodina most municipalities etc. We felt that, given all of this together, we should predict the addition for both the first child and the bill should have a parental supplement for the first child. The second problem that comes to us, and we're trying to solve it with this bill, is the fact that the parental supplement that is now being paid, is paid once, immediately after the birth of the child, for the second, third and fourth children. In fact, these funds that are not insignificant to Serbia, for our environment, where the average profit is 18,000 net, and the parental allowance for the fourth child is 180,000, so it is for our country in this situation of serious means, our experience shows that this parental supplement in this amount has not actually hit the bottom line, it has not hit the goal of which it was introduced. That such a one - time payment was not actually used essentially in the child’s interest, which was the primary goal, but some others had achieved the needs. Given these real knowledge we are proposing here, in a law that is before you, that a parental supplement for the second, third and fourth children is paid in 24 wars in two years, each month a certain war, so for example. For a fourth child, this month's war would be about 7,500 dinars at this point in time of parenting. So the whole idea is, in fact, that in the best interest of the child, it's in the function of the child, not in the function of something else. So it's a change that's also important. The next thing that is very important here in amending this law is to prevent a serious abuse that took place in Serbia thanks to a certain solution in this law. It's not the law. It's our fault. What exactly is this about? When we talk about maternity benefits, the solution in this law that is now in force is that the maternity care has the right to compensation in the amount of income it would make to work. This formulation, which sounds very nice, is very noble, is a good formulation, has led in practice to decommissioning in the private sector, as a rule, especially with smaller privates, because it is harder in this remaining social and state sector to do. What exactly is going on in practice? They receive a certain maternity leave 15 days before her deadline and then set that person a salary of 100,000 to 150,000 dinars. And then, since he knows this privateer, he read the law, that as soon as he comes to receive compensation, he immediately comes to the burden of the budget, on the burden of the state, and he gives the kobajagi 150,000 to her, and then the state has to pay 150,000 dinars all the time when the maternity benefits are paid. Since even during the payment of that fee, there is also a permanent rule that it will receive a fee at the rate of the earnings it would make, then the next brilliant finding of that team goes: then they take it and now they increase that salary at the workplace, as its imaginary workplace, and then it goes on into the stratospheres, because they know that the state must pay the fee according to this solution in that amount. Of course, it's clear to everyone, it doesn't have to be very smart, what is it really about? It's a mass abuse, where a team that recognized it as a possibility, practically applying such solutions legally, puts a lot of money in their pocket. Practically these women, and the foster parents in their function, have been manipulated. They probably get a little bit, they put a much bigger part in their pocket. Now, since it may seem to be an individual case, what I'm saying is that the phenomenon is so widespread that it's hundreds of millions of dinars that are being drained from the budget on that basis, thanks to the behavior of that number of people, which unfortunately is not small. Given that this is happening in life, we are in the bill of law that has been proposed before you a certain solution to prevent abuses, which are mass abuses, and in order, of course, that the foster parents would receive and their benefits that they should receive. So that's just one relationship, that's one situation we have to keep in mind when we talk about these issues. What's still here is change, I'm talking about major changes, change is a way of synchronising. Namely, all these incomes are now in line when it comes to child benefits, maternity benefits, when it comes to parental supplements, per month according to the cost of living. Now we're introducing the entire system here and now, and in that previous law and the third law, it's going to be two times a year, as you know it was in the pension that we adopted here. It's just a change. The cost of living remains, but the coordination is twice a year, April and October, it's a change. What's more, I think it's important for me to say two things more small, but for people who receive these funds, these are huge things, they may sound to some that they're small, which is that, by changing this law, we've practically liberalized the conditions for the exercise of rights under this law. So I'm talking about these three rights, child support, fees and parental allowance. So we liberalized that those revenues that these people make under the Social Protection Act will not enter the censorship, now in the future, when we adopt this. Because it was a really absurd situation, I'm in a difficult social situation, I get under the Social Protection Act a certain amount of funding from the state, but it gets me into a censorship that makes it impossible for me to exercise some other right under the same law. So that's where we liberalized this solution, and another thing we suggested is that we also liberalise when it comes to mountainous and mountainous areas, it's usually infertile land. There is a country of poorer quality, in order to make it easier for people to exercise these rights, we have raised an asset price for the exercise of rights under this law from one to two hectares within the framework of the household, which is a kind of help and liberalisation when it comes to the exercise of these rights. That would be basic solutions in the law, and maybe just to mention, if we knew the order of size we're talking about. The parenting allowance for the second child today is 75,993,00 dinars, for the third 136,780,00 dinars, for the fourth child 182,374,00 dinars, these are the amounts of now a parental allowance, and we, as I said, are now paying them within 24 months in equal wars. What is more important is to say when we talk about the social policy of the Serbian state and this government, namely, when we talk about the amounts, that we know what sizes we're talking about. The family that gets a fourth child, unfortunately, is a small number of such families in Serbia, it would, according to these solutions that are adopted here, receive a parental allowance for two years each month, and then, as a rule, these are families of weaker assets based on a child's allowance, it's permanent, but I'm saying in these two years when this is applied another 7,000, and that's 14,500 per month the state pays two years when a fourth child is born. When a third child is born, it's slightly smaller, but still very significant, it's about 11,000. That Serb family that has a three-year-old child has 11,000 of the state secured, I'm simply talking about orderly size so that citizens know what they're talking about. What's more important is when we have to look at the social policy in general and what we're doing, we have a category of material security of the family, the so-called MOP, so that a family with three children in Serbia who receives a MOP, who receives a parental supplement and who receives a child's allowance, because whoever receives a MOP, and because it's poor, such a family with three children gets more than 20,000 a month from the state. It's about a strong social policy that's being conducted. I think that's good, and we intend to continue with that kind of social policy. I hope that MPs in this assembly, given what I said and the need to continue strong social policy, will support the amendments to this law, because they are actually in a position to create a more socially fair society and I think this is particularly important in the transition period, which will be painful, most painful for a few more years, until Serbia reaches the green branch. I think that a strong social policy is very important in that period, and that is why I call on Members to support these amendments in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23808	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called, while the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, called. Since it is 17.45, Mr Nedeljkovic and Mr Busetic reported, we will give word to the Rules of Procedure and I fear there will be no time after.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23809	Mr. President, you were not present, and I must inform you and warn you and call formally and legally to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Formal-legal it is Article 104 and Article 28. Now let me explain. While you were away, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in his opening statement, as a representative of the proposings on two public debt laws, ended with several sentences of insult and offensive words, with the goal of demeaning the National Assembly, to cooperate with some journalists, Gilas, Tadic and others, who care about the humiliation of the National Assembly. I personally call upon you, you are obliged to maintain integrity, dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I would like to inform you that Minister Mladjan Dinkic has made chaos in this building. What did he do? He said quite frankly that the MPs were bastards. Now let me tell you what he did that way. You remember when the Pharisees of Jesus Christ delivered, he doesn't remember you reading anything, he's not on the Internet, unfortunately, I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23810	I warn you, I'm really not that old.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23811	I've called upon your knowledge, for you I absolutely know that you know what I'm talking about. Pilate to decide, he offered the Jews the so-called bastard, who is the killer of children, and Jesus Christ, and he said, "Definite yourselves, one of them I will leave in life, the other will suffer." Unfortunately, they've defined themselves as the bastard, and that's when the bastard's name was left for the worst thing there is on the globe of the Earth. In this way, Mladjan Dinkic made it clear that he did not respect the National Assembly, and in this sense I propose in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, given that Mr. Angelkovic, who was the chairman at that time, probably could not have thought that in the final word Mladjan Dinkic would say that we are aware that the violation of the Rules of Procedure was done in the day of the vote. The second proposal, Mr. President, that you write a letter to the government of the Republic of Serbia and point to the inappropriate behaviour of Mladjan Dinkic. He purposely said that to create a situation like this and then unscheduledly exit, for he is not interested in the National Assembly at all. It's his tried-out manner that's been promoting for months when it's been representing the government in the National Assembly. Or, Mr. President, inform the Administrative Board that we adopt a decision to ban Mladjan Dinkic from entering the National Assembly building. He quite deserved such a relationship of representatives in this congregation. So it's not a question of education, that's what I have to tell you. I could kind of understand that he answered someone in a replica, but it wasn't a replica, it was an opening statement where the government was advertised and promoted. I do not believe that the government decided at the session that Mladjan Dinkic, when representing the government on these two draft laws, had authorized him to say that the MPs were bastards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23812	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23813	I'm sure they didn't give him the authority. You who suspect he didn't say that, take a stenogram and read it. Mr. President, I don't want any answer, I don't want to potentiate this question. I've made three or four suggestions, and it's up to you to apply the proposal. I remind you once again, you are required to protect the dignity of this National Assembly, of this body and of these MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-08-0.u23814	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I know you're not looking for an answer, but clearly, the assembly will plead in voting day, that's what you've certainly been looking for for for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so no prior search. Certainly, please, this is a notice on the course of the session, when the President, according to the Rules of Procedure, replaces one of the vice presidents and runs the session, at which point he is in charge. I'll check the stenogram on what's been said. Also, I ask all those who represent the legislators that and how, I hope we are unanimous here, we take care of the address. We should also take care of the metaphors we give. I certainly respect the translation of both Danicic and Karadzic, I know who Varava or the bastard is in another sense, but I remind you that they were not two accused, but three. Please simply consider the facts every time, be kind, and certainly this congregation by the way it works is best defended from every kind of attack. That's why I'm informing you, according to what we agreed this afternoon, because of the importance of the law, we're going to continue to work, and that's the best defense anyway, and I'm going to see a stenogram, like all of you, if anything else is hurt, Monday at 10.00 p.m., December 12th. I know, I'm sorry, since Mr. Nedeljkovic first answered, there's not enough time, Mr. Busetic, it's only till six, Mr. Nedeljkovic first answered, so you, and it's not correct to give him a chance once and not once. So, the authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Nedeljkovic, and the authorised representative of the SPS, Mr Busetic, I thought that was clear. Thank you all. We'll continue Monday at 10.00 hours.
