ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13666	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 116 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Ivica Dačić, Zarko Obradović and Milovan Markovic, and Brance Stojanovic will be late. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Regulation on the Regulation of the Republic of Serbia and of the Banks on the basis of the internal credits, loans (resuming in particular) I remind you that the National Assembly has suspended the work in the course of the review of the amendment to Article 1. A bill submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (Employer Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated and did so Thursday, at the end of the session, the president of Mr Markovic's Assembly. First, article 100 was broken, because such findings about speakers who had long spoken, that it was a kind of therapy, did not really stand, and it was a shame for all MPs in the National Assembly, especially since the president of the National Assembly said such a thing. This is not the first time you have repeated the position that the greatest contribution of the MPs who can make here in the National Assembly is to give up the discussion. In this way, the essence of democracy is also shown, in the way you understand it, which is that here only laws should be passed without any debate and that in this way the essence of parliamentaryism should be fully devised. Then, in violation of Article 28. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 96(4) has also been broken, which states that the MP is obliged to specify the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which he considers to be injured, to quote and explain what the infringement consists of, with the ability to speak for a maximum period of three minutes. You went to the end of the debate Thursday, you called for this provision of the Rules of Procedure, but instead of three minutes, you spoke for more than five and a half minutes, even though you were warned about it. At the very least, it's completely unprincipled of you to brutally violate and trample the Rules of Procedure, especially since this isn't the first time. It has already happened to you before that you have been talking for more than six minutes about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You obviously think that when you make an injury that's important and that others should listen to it, and when other MPs do, it must be less important then, so you don't choose the means to interrupt them and take away their word. I must also warn you of the fact that when you, as president of the National Assembly, who is in charge of taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, violate that Rules of Procedure, that this injury is much more serious than when anyone else does. That's why I'm asking you to plead precisely, and these are very simple things, you've said more than five and a half minutes, and that can be checked in the stenographic notes, whether that's how you hurt the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13668	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Krasic. I'll explain, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13669	It is the same provisions that Mr. Nemanja Sarovic was invited to, but, Mr. President, I must warn you of something that is a bad practice in this National Assembly. This has happened over the past few years – the maltenes of all abuses of the Rules of Procedure took place at 17.45 p.m. You came out on Thursday as a national envoy to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, you did not specify a member, you went out after a discussion of the lady who is a member of your parliamentary group and you did not indicate what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was, what she hurt in her discussion, except that those 400 laws were an epochal result of the work of the National Assembly. Then you gave us a lecture, and if you were already the president of the National Assembly and you had the need to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure for the speaker who did it, you were obliged to warn as the president of the National Assembly, and you were distracted from the very place where you were sitting. It is not good for the development of parliamentaryism and relations in the National Assembly to abuse in such a way the seat of the National Assembly president, that 10 minutes before the National Assembly's work for that day, you go out and give such a broad lecture, that you do not see who you are objecting to. The president of the National Assembly objectes to the National Assembly – please, this is unrecorded. If you have findings of any injury, then from where you sit, use the MP's authority to warn you, draw attention, not to go out for a pay phone and give lectures to all of us, without us knowing at all what injury it is. By the logic of the matter, it probably refers to the injury committed by the speaker who spoke before you. If so, then I cannot advertise from this place the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that he did Nemanja Sarovic. You would not simply give me a word, because it would be the greatest abuse of the Rules of Procedure; as there is some practice here: behold, I am the bearer of this amendment, and how now would it be that any MP who comes out of it is me, especially if I am called by MPs from my MP group. You are simply promoting something that is not the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. You've hurt a whole series of provisions. Of course, I don't need your explanation or any apology, but since it's an obvious injury, I'm asking that in the day of voting, the National Assembly be made aware of whether or not you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13670	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? No, you'll get the amendment, right? I owe you an explanation in the Rules of Procedure. I accept Mr. Krasic's suggestion. He does not ask for clarification, but for the congregation to declare itself. The assembly will declare itself in the voting day. And the clarification to you is yes, I have called upon a member who speaks of injury to dignity. I did not resent those who have been speaking for longer, on the contrary, I commended it and said it was a good parliamentary practice and I reminded myself of the cases of this parliamentary practice earlier. What was a matter of dignity is the fact that we have been discussing here for hours about an amendment that requires that a member who speaks of what is the subject of the law be abolished. Since the discussion did not go to explain why this member should be abolished, but rather went to something else, I felt that this injured the dignity of the Assembly because it did not treat the subject of the debate, but it uses beyond what is important for the efficiency of the Assembly of a kind of political obstruction, which is legitimately right and I commended it, but unfortunately brings us into a situation that we simply ignore the fact that the Assembly must be overly governed by the laws. That's all, that's my explanation, and if you're not satisfied, of course, the Assembly will also be made clear on that in the voting day. The word is Mr. Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13671	You are once again insulting the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. President. You're convincing us that you were talking about something that you didn't talk about at the end of the previous day of the session. In no word did you warn the speakers not to talk about the amendment. It's not in the stenographic notes. You mocked the MPs, tried to be funny, and you were reckless. First you said you understood that someone was talking out of nothing, and someone was reading from paper, and here you thought that those who came out of the amendment were talking out of nothing, meant out of their head. Next, Mr. Markovic, you asked us to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and you allowed the debate to take place all day without a government representative, without a minister who was supposed to defend his views and views of the government in the debate on the law. Unrecorded. At a time when much worse presidents of the National Assembly than you led the sessions could not have held a session if there was no minister. Even when DOS was strongest in March 2001, it was said that Minister Djelic was late from France by plane, the fog was at the airport, the session was interrupted until the minister to defend the law appeared. What hurts me most about all of this is that you compared the length of the debate, which you are now talking about so affirmatively, actually insulted the representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Alexander Vukic. You said: "... with all the right political obstruction and it is a great pleasure for me to have skilled speakers, such as Mr. Paroski, who spoke several hours in this assembly a few years ago, or as one MP is today, but please, let's be kind, refer to all of us. "Then you said what should be entered into the history of the National Assembly: "The congregation is not therapy. If someone is not allowed at home to speak, of course he must, most normally, please let me finish my presentation, the most normal thing is that he has the right to seek a place to speak. “The congregation is not therapy, so you refer these words to the people who spoke, and you conclude that they do not let them speak to him at home, so he took advantage of the speaker of the congregation. Now, Mr. Markovic, if you have truly convinced yourself that the Assembly is not therapy, resign as National Assembly President, because the Assembly obviously cannot help you. If you have asked for help here at the seat of the National Assembly President, you have now seen that this cannot be done in the National Assembly, resign from leading this congregation to be treated.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13672	I think it's quite clear, but I owe you an explanation. You read the stenographic notes and of course you don't see a speech break in them. So, first I praise the part of the discussion, which I chaired, and if I had any objections, I would make that remark, and then I say, "Let me finish, and I'm going to go to the grade of the afternoon work that I didn't do, and that's why I haven't been able to intervene." It is an objection made by Mr Krasic, as I cannot answer for the fact that the chairman, Mr. Mihailovic, did not take the floor away from someone who overstepped three minutes. If you're not satisfied, of course, we'll also have to say this in voting day. The word is Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13673	Mr. Markovic, you have just violated the provisions of Article 96(5), which say the president of the National Assembly is obliged to, after pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by some MPs to explain. You don't know what time you didn't do it. First of all, you have introduced a practice that never existed, that you suddenly respond to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, which are referred to by five, six MPs. So, cumulatively. You have no right to do that. The Rules of Procedure are decident here and says the President of the National Assembly is obliged to make an explanation afterwards. So you can't judge whether you're going to wait for five, six, or ten MPs to point to various violations of the Rules of Procedure, nor can you assume that they will point to the same thing, so that you wait and choose when you're going to give an explanation. Second of all, you've tried to bypass the very essence of a story again. I asked you again, very simple and precise – you said five and a half minutes, did you violate the Rules of Procedure, or did you not? Please give me a direct answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13674	According to that article, I've given you some clarification, as I can directly answer your question. In case I spoke effectively for more than three minutes, I certainly injured the Rules of Procedure and is the chairman's office, I just informed Mr. Mihailovic to point out that. I really don't have the knowledge that I've spoken effectively for more than three minutes. On the contrary, it is from these quotes that I say in the meantime – please allow me to finish. So that's not an effective speech, but if I did, I certainly hurt the Rules of Procedure, and in that case I will certainly take appropriate measures. That's not the problem. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Krasic's amendment aims to stop the surging ideas of Mladjan Dinkic from financial spheres. Haven't we had enough comments about alleged experts since DOS time? At that time, an open struggle of opinion was led and Mladjan Dinkic came out as a loser. With strange social movements, and we know who is doing this, it is making our lives worse again and by proposing this law to regulate the relations of the Republic of Serbia and the banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans. And all of his previous proposals have come under condemnation from the wider public and citizens of Serbia, but I would not comment now, because it is within the scope of this assembly. The same man cheated on us then, and that's what he wants right now. The workers of all our banks know what it's all about. It's about fraud of international circumstances. The important thing is that he and his group G17 plus settle down, settle down and benefit themselves at the level of expert actions, and that's pampering with bank accounts, mutilating financial flows, so that they, of course, know how to clear these cloudy flows, and that's supposed to make us feel better. It's not better, it's worse and worse. The Serbian Radical Party opposes a different treatment of the Republic of Serbia regarding its claims in a bankruptcy proceedings against banks compared to other bank creditors in bankruptcy. I guess the rules of bankruptcy against banks were known to those who negotiated with the Paris and London Club credentials. Why are we asking to delete this member? Alexander Vukic, in his historic-financial address in this area, gave the picture and the general public notice that these gentlemen from that group G17 plus, who robs the people, must no longer make such moves that lead us to economic slavery. They work as if after them no one should be alive on this planet anymore. I know that on the first plane, if we have planes, they'll escape to their islands. They know citizens and what islands they are and how much of our money is on those islands. The people should not allow them to board those planes, and we, as opposition MPs, will fight here in parliament against such laws and such ideas. Where's $4.5 billion from Cyprus, where's their six billion from the Hungarian border, and where are all the other financial donors who promised and promised the people that money? I remember well how Dinkic went public with famous schemes, when he dealt with opponents from DOS; I remember his comments about the current coalition – that they are not able and ready to implement reforms and there are no reforms in Serbia. They're probably listening to this today, and I'm talking to them in the interest of all citizens, because this man and the current government can't go on. Dinkic played everything and acted according to his behaviour, which is a fraud. That's a lot of media help, he probably pays them well, 'cause he's acting like a big boss. Another one of his scams was a month ago. Remember how he raised his wages to the MPs and employees of the National Assembly. It was a manipulative farce around which the people were to fight, to draw attention to the problem, and to open the gates of The Hague and direct the generals, without reaction from the people. It was a successful dribble, and then immediately a new venture from the financial kitchen of experts – wages should be reduced, I mean MPs and employees in the National Assembly, because the budget was supposed to be dissipated; it was pure manipulation. He's still acting the way he did when he walked into this house with that big black bag or bag, I don't remember. Our people comment that in history we have not had a worse, more hateful and dangerous man in the political hierarchy that ran Serbia's finances, but we hope it won't be for much longer. The place is waiting for him where he deserved it. He's chasing the poor girl from the flea market, and in the crates he moved and took those money over. I think it's over for him, because that's what the coalition people are thinking that they're supposed to support him. (President: Time. We'll see if they vote for this bill. There are many comments related to the National Savings Bank, which has been voluntarily established, where G17 plus was given the right to service the largest share of foreign exchange savings of 3.5 billion euros. And that story has its own story, and that's to make those experts eat up our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13676	Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had an example on the last day of the Assembly meeting to establish ourselves as an advisory body before the eyes of the entire public and us MPs Mr Markovic, President of the Assembly. Mr. Markovic, I must tell you that you need to share your advice with this interested group of yours, which is G17 plus, that you need to hold round tables and circles, in order to unite and not have so many factions and different opinions, especially about the division of prey over the last year. Namely, who listened carefully to the exposés Mr. Vukic has filed... It would be good for you to extract at least one part of the economic and monetary policy from this exposé, and apply it in practice, so that you can clear your cheeks to leave this assembly in the future. Unfortunately, those of you who say we need therapy should be the treatment and example of Mr. Vukic's exposé, in order for individuals among you to be cured. When it comes to this legislative project, we have had the opportunity to pass laws in the area of economic and monetary policy in the last year, which are only related to certain taxes, for certain purposes. We simply pass laws on a daily basis that impose on the citizens of Serbia. We didn't have a chance here to talk about any single law that is a developmental character, which would improve economic and economic opportunities in Serbia. Unfortunately, you're just looking to fill the budget, like you're flying somewhere in the air, like you're not living with the citizens of Serbia and you don't see how they live, how they choke, how the workers you sell factories every day and lose their jobs. One of the speakers, your representatives, the other day, almost military-style, said of this speaker – today is better, we have reduced our debt to abroad, we have increased our employment, there are no more deficits, etc. I must tell the gentleman openly - you who sold cements, brewers, olives, sugars, all those business entities that could function, who worked during the sanctions, you left the ink behind. That's what the citizens of Serbia feel best. What else do you have to sell? It's mineral water and even spring water, which I see today, you want to exploit. You'll only leave the air behind for generations, if you don't and try to pack it somehow. When it comes to Dinkic, I believe that even a small child knows who it's about. And small children who may be in the first grade know that this is about the uncle who fought both sellers and consumers, the one who fiscalized Serbia's entire citizenship. In October 5th, that man, the quasirevolution, was one of the first warriors and the fist of the time, entered with a phantom on his head, with automatic rifles and hackers in the NBJ, robbed the vaults without any handover of the competent commission and authorities. Does this man talk about morality, do you trust him? I think it's hard to convince anyone. We know he was in conflict with the original DOS, which he supported. We remember the duel between the ′′ God of dericosis", as they called it, and Dinkic, and in fact it was a big con for the citizens of Serbia. The goal was only to lure citizens of Serbia to make something better, to remove the ′′God's dericosis" to bring the "fiscal" Dinkic. I think the citizens of Serbia know well that who is treating them during this difficult period for them. I believe there will be no interest group in this House like G17 plus in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13678	The People's MP Branislav Jankovic has the word, so the MP of the people is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the proposal for a law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and the banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans, Mr Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment to Article 1. In that sense, the SRS simply cannot trust a man who needs to pass on these reforms, which is current Minister Mladjan Dinkic. We are aware that he is responsible for the closure of four major state banks, without an analysis of the state of these banks. He is responsible for introducing foreign banks into the market of the Republic of Serbia, without restrictions on the so-called Greenfield projects, where Austrian and German banks are allowed without any restrictions to purchase Serbia's savings. He is responsible for allowing these banks to export the foreign exchange savings collected in such a way to their central accounts and to buy Serbian economy and rob Serbian citizens with huge profits at different interest rates. He is responsible for the establishment of a National Savings Bank, with the help of the National Bank of Serbia foreign reserves, which are placed by the Euroaxis Bank. He is responsible for the private handling of the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves. He is responsible for the illegal availability of state assets in the event of the use of the office's business space for accounting and payment. He is responsible for granting privileged status to the National Savings Bank in the event of payment of the old foreign currency savings. He is responsible for conducting monetary policy in a way that directly destroys Serbia's economy. He is responsible for destroying the balance of domestic banks until the full occupation of foreign banks. He is responsible for conducting a policy on the unrealistic course of dinars, where he, not the market, determines the daily growth of interest; killing Serbia's economy through the banking sector, and thus also the best Serbian firms, due to the criteria of the National Bank of Serbia in the domain of supervisory supervision, are calling themselves a poor plasma; closing domestic and now foreign banks, which are not at his will, and without clear and precise criteria, which completely destroys the investment environment. He is responsible for the deliberate and organised destruction of Serbian insurance companies. He is responsible for the lack of clarification of the Cyprus affair, reporting on how and how billions of dollars have disappeared in Cyprus. In the end, he will remain remembered as a man who in five years has systematically managed to destroy Serbia's financial system, the domestic banks, to enable foreign banks, even those that are nowhere in banking almanacs, to come and collect money from Serbian citizens, and then he and his friends become owners of Serbia with the same money. The question of Serbian radicals is: who owns Euroaxis Bank or who owns the National Savings Bank? Let the National Bank of Serbia explain why it keeps foreign exchange reserves in the bank. Since not all Serbian citizens are bankers and economic experts, they do not even dream of the depth of the iris in which Mladjan Dinkic, as well as those he represents, pushed them out of his personal interests. In the end, I would say, last night in Castle, Mladjan Dinkic informed Serbian citizens that they were living better, but that they did not know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13680	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Stefan Zankov, so let's go in turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13681	First of all, Mr. Chairman, I must say that you once again deceived the National Assembly when you said you had no knowledge that you spoke for more than three minutes. They also speak clearly of the stenographic notes. First you were warned by the chairman, who told you: "You've overstepped time, you're bringing an end. You kept talking. After a certain time, he says – votes from the hall: time. You answered the easy: ′′Time is always′′, and then showed, in a very clear and direct way, a complete ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, although you are president of the National Assembly for more than a year, you said:”I speak three minutes and 56 seconds, and I have the right, as you know, five minutes. ′′ After that, once again you have been warned by the chairman and said: “Please, you have the right for three minutes. "But that wasn't enough for you either, and you continued brutally to violate the Rules of Procedure and continue to speak. That is why I ask that once again, and given these facts, please state whether or not you have violated the Rules of Procedure. If I have to, of course, give you these stenographic notes too. As far as the amendments to this law are concerned, there is a question of what to say more about Mladjan Dinkic, what to say about a man who must not go before the MPs of this National Assembly, and eight more laws have been passed. The question arises as to how he will come at all, whether he will be allowed to come, what kind of legitimacy he has, what kind of legitimacy any law he proposes to this National Assembly has, if he takes into account the disrespect he constantly shows to all of us, according to all MPs, regardless of the parliamentary group. A lot of this, of course, is said of Mladjan Dinkic, about the lawlessness characterized by his work from the first moment he began to deal with politics, if that can be called at all. He went into politics with a sock on his head and an automatic rifle on his shoulder. He became famous on October 6th, when he entered the National Bank; when he took over, contrary to the law, he performed that function for several months and you called him governor everywhere, although he was formally elected to the governor much later. I think a lot is also said about the damage that Mladjan Dinkic has done to our economy and the state in total, without talking about the four banks' fired workers, although the damage that has been done to our economic system is certainly incomparably greater. A lot has been said about the establishment of a National Savings Bank, about the deception of Serbian citizens. I will remind you that then the National Savings Bank was presented as state property, that Mladjan Dinkic himself went there first to invest in the cameras, I no longer remember whether there were 50 or 100 euros, and that in that way, as a public official, as governor of the National Bank, I can assure the citizens that it was a state job. Finally, it turned out, of course, that the bank is owned by its partners Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, that it is another fraud, as was the fraud with Euroaxis bank, Galenika and many other companies that Mladjan Dinkic has gone through. Should we also talk about conducting monetary policy in a way that directly damages and directly destroys our economy? Do we need to talk about a marketing stable rate of dinars, which makes exports completely impossible? Do we need to talk about the latest moves, the destruction of JAT, a national airline that has for more than 70 years gained a remarkable reputation in the world and because its planes were safe and because they provided regular departures? Do you think it's really an accident that Young Dinkic's associates are currently establishing a private airline? Is it by any chance that when JAT workers demand a salary increase, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic says clearly and decadently – no, there is no money in the budget, workers should not receive salaries because they spent less than a year of all planned funds. That's why I'm asking Young Dinkic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... How is it possible... And I'll use my time that way, Mr. Chairman, as you taught us. Here, I'm done, another five or six minutes, I won't, for sure. Finish it, please. ) Is it possible for workers, i.e. they are not workers, but are strikers, who are brought in from Tunisia, have enough money and to pay for a 50-euro daily, and to pay an hour's work of 35 euros, and to pay for accommodation in a luxury hotel and each of them individually costs JAT more than 9,000 euros per month? Where did that money come from? Was it better to have our citizens and our workers, who had succeeded, despite the sanctions and all the other accidents that JAT and other firms had guessed, to keep those planes going? (President: six minutes, Mr. Sarovic, please finish. ) Here, I am finishing up, but, Mr. Chairman, I have to point out one more thing, that Mr. Dinkic is the best person to say and the fact that no one from the ruling coalition wants to say any word of defense on his behalf, knowing how much work is pre-determined, not even his party colleagues. And those rare ones who are... (President: Thank you, 6.5 minutes. )......................................................................................................... They weren't allowed to look us in the eye, but they were reading from any paper, also knowing that it wasn't true and not believing in what they were saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13682	Thank you. I remind you that the word has a folk MP Stefan Zankov, and the following are: Stevica Dedjanski, Nenad Mitrovica, Dragoslav Milkovic, and Milos Disic. I remind you this is about the amendment, not the finance minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13683	Serbian Radical Party MPs will vote against the bill, which, on behalf of the proposing, represents, in this case, incumbent Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Simply, someone who has, on several occasions since 2000, deceived all Serbian citizens has lost everyone, and above all, moral credibility to represent or propose something to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is also that Minister Dinkic has recently repeatedly threatened the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through which it has passed, because it is protected, at all costs, by the assembly majority. Minister Dinkic even allowed himself to leave this debate, and managed to prevent, absolutely against the Rules of Procedure, the Serbian Radical Party's initiative to move ahead on the agenda of this session. Essentially, Mladjan Dinkic has been responsible for many bad things that have happened in Serbia since 2000. First, he's responsible for destroying the country's banking system, so we've come to a situation where all the savings of citizens pick up foreign banks, get out of the country, make money on interest differences. He's responsible, because he picked up everything that the citizens did during that bad period, according to him, to save for the black days, and then, in that way, he increased the total foreign reserve. That is also what the current governor Jelasic said, as foreign reserves grow, a data that is constantly praised. That's what the citizens collected for the black days, and now they're selling, to survive, according to a course that's absolutely not real. Mladjan Dinkic also spoke of the many billions Serbia will receive when Milosevic falls; first those five-six billion from the west waiting at the Hungarian border, which turned out to be a simple lie. Another simple lie about billions is the money found in Cyprus; he allegedly found it, and then he kept quiet and didn't talk about it. Now it turns out that he's got that money, but for some reason, he's out there somewhere, and he's deliberately keeping quiet about it. Mladjan Dinkic also cheated on citizens when forming the National Savings Bank, which was supposed to be a state bank, to cross into the hands of Hamovic, Lazarevic and others in a voluntary way. The worst of all, however, was what had to happen first so that he could do everything he did to the citizens and the state of Serbia afterwards. It is that with automatic rifles and a sock on his head enters the NBJ on 6 October, he self-proclaims himself governor and in that status performs the duties of governors, practically, for several months, until the official appointment. What depicts the personality and work of Mladjan Dinkic, however, is a commercial, which speaks of it all, and I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia, not to forget, like this for the end. Within a year – he says (it was said in 2000) – a new car, for two years abroad schooling, and for three years an apartment. The situation is today, after five years as Mladjan Dinkic is in power, whether as governor, whether as finance minister, but always in power, exactly the opposite: children cannot be educated because of prices and in the country, a new car and apartment are thoughts directory for Serbian citizens, who are increasingly difficult to cover basic life costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13684	National MP Stevica Dedjanski, then National MP Nenad Mitrovica, Dragoslav Milkovic, Milos Disic, Milovan Radovanovic, Sava Urosevic, this is the order, so Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Krasic's amendment indicates, in fact, the true nature of Mr Mladjan Dinkic and his actions. I need to read some data that's devastating. So, Serbian citizens must know that after the country's write-off of the debt to the Paris and London Club, these are the results of Mladjan Dinkic, the debt is increasing again and today again amounts to $14 billion. During 2004, it's exact data, we're in charge of another $2,400,000. Has anyone ever asked the citizens what they think of these assignments? The most interesting thing is that only in December of last year we were in charge of $713 million. With the money from the new borrowing, we managed to repay somehow the entire debt that was $600 million for 2004, but in 2005, it comes to $1,540,000,000, of which the principal is 1,070,000,000, and the interest itself based on the debt of $472 million, so it will be interesting to see how it will be paid. If it somehow manages to pay off new debts, the question is what will happen in 2006 and 2007 and what will we pay for it. Also, these tiny, passing parties feel instinctive that they will no longer have the opportunity to distract the people, so, take as much credit as possible. It is currently the policy of Mladjan Dinkic and this government. It all comes down to it – steal as much as you can, for you will never be in such an opportunity again. They know that, too, they know that responsibility wasn't even for those who did it, and that's how they behave. I can tell you more only by defeating the data for this year – the growth in production in January of this year is only 0.5%, and this is the best proof that reforms do not exist and that it is just marketing these conceited ministers. The rise in the foreign trade deficit to record $7,430,000,000 and the rise in inflation of 30% annually, these are the results that our country has currently achieved. In the first two months inflation has already reached 4%. I'll give some information for the citizens of Serbia. From February 2004 to February 2005, inflation was about 8%, 9%, 10%. I pulled some prices just to see how much inflation was: a kilo of juniper meat was collected from 206 to 315 dinars, pork from 197 to 329. How much is that? Is that the single-digit inflation they were talking about? Not to mention, it cost 43% gas, diesel 35% and coal 50%. These are the results of the current government policy, especially Minister Mladjan Dinkic. I would like to remind you that two decades ago, a study was done on the situation in underdeveloped countries. It was then announced that three quarters of money coming into the country in the form of loans, which is now happening to us, is returning to the developed world as the private capital of political oligarchy and its tycoon. That's what Mr. Nemanja Sarovic was just saying. We know who's destroying JAT, who's behind it, who's opening up new airlines, who's protecting who's here, so it's no wonder whoever's opening JAT proposes Dinkic for the next governor, for the next prime minister. Also, and I'm not going to explain anymore, and I think this data is pretty devastating. I can only finish the presentation with a message that Serbia really doesn't have time to wait anymore. And the problem is that citizens don't want to go after con men who disguise themselves in fine suits, they want to radically better, and they're gonna get it for sure this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13686	One more apology. National MP Nenad Mitrovica. Mr. Cvetanović, I'm sorry. So Nenad Mitrović, Dragoslav Milkovic, Milos Dišić, Goran Cvetanovic, Sava Urosevic, Bore Kutić, Hranislav Perić, Dragan Colić, Branislav Rankić, Mita Avramov. That's so far the speakers have been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for amendment to Article 1. The bill on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign credits, i.e. loans, submitted by Zoran Krasic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. This amendment requires that Article 1. The bill is deleted. We have an example here that this is another bill based on political motives, not on real action that should have the proposed law. At the same time, the full occupation of the financial sector, the fiscal and monetary policies of the state of Serbia, as well as abuse, and the robbery of such resources by the Serbian state, is the main political activity of Mladjan Dinkic. Also, the closure of four major state banks, without analysis of the state of these banks, without any competent assessment of the state of demand for these banks in Cyprus and New York, has begun to collapse the domestic banking system. The protests of thousands of employees who were out of work did not help, as Dinkic had a clear warrant and carried him out to the end. Foreign banks were introduced into Serbia's market, where it is allowed to export German and Austrian banks without any restrictions on the purchase of savings in Serbia and allowed these banks to export their foreign exchange savings to their central banks' accounts and to buy Serbian economy and rob Serbian citizens with huge profits at different rates. We of the SRS believe that all decisions and all the bill proposals made and proposed by Mladjan Dinkic are directly directed against the citizens of Serbia, and so is this bill at the expense of Serbian citizens. I urge you to vote on the amendment proposed by Mr Zoran Krasic in front of the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13688	Dragoslav Milkovic has the word, so Milos Disic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, even today the minister is not present, deliberately fleeing, because he feels responsible. Ahead of the 24 September 2000 election, G17 plus, then as an expert group, promises to return Serb national money stolen from Cyprus and promises Serbia's quick rebirth. The arrival of DOS to power in 2000 also brought the best "experts" to the economy and banking abroad. Mladjan Dinkic, with armed personnel, broke into the National Bank on 5 October 2000, where the robbery occurred. In December 2000, Dinkic had an archive and all important information about our money that was exported to Cyprus and promises to return it. Dinkic took the obligation to lead crime, which was meant to be run by police and judicial authorities. Dinkic goes to Cyprus with his team, but does not report his work to state authorities, what happened, where Serbian money was stolen, because so far no one has asked for a report on it. The work of the London firm FIA helped Dinkic. So the responsibility for the fate of Serbian couples in Cyprus lies with Mladjan Dinkic. I have a few questions, but the minister isn't here if he's watching let him hear them. What about eight companies owned by Serbia's state in Cyprus? Where are four billion dollars from Serbia? Why are four state banks closed: Beobanka, Belgrade Banka, Investbanka and Jugobanka? Why did the National Savings Bank open after those banks were shut down? Where's the records of the money out of Serbia? Returning people's Serbian money to the country would lead to the country's economic rebirth, and today no one in Serbia raises the issue of money returns. Where's all this ending?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13690	The People's Messenger Milos Disic has the word, and let the MP Goran Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the one who needs to tell us to the MPs what the law is on the agenda and what law it is not, unfortunately, here. This amendment should be adopted for a number of reasons, but let's take the lead. What about the law itself? Nothing, a great shame, a shame for Serbian citizens to rob Serbia and Serbian citizens in such a way, and put the law on the agenda in front of this assembly. Shame, a heavy shame, instead of seeing their backs, in Serbia's Central Prison, they walk free with Serbia today and tell us stories and stories about how good this law is and why it should be adopted. Serbian citizens are used to something like this. We from the Serbian Radical Party can tell them that this disgrace and shame will not last long and that Serbia and Serbian citizens' dignity can only bring the SRS. You'll hear everything, I think Mr. Mircic said a lot of reasons in his presentation, and we don't need to repeat them here, but let's just ask them -- what about the four banks that were liquidated, because there was no reason, what about a billion and 600 million debt "Sartida" to whom it was written off and who's going to bear the costs? (President: Please, no throwing.) ) We MPs invited Mr Dinkic to do his job, but he did not pay attention to such a thing. When it was the budget refund law, I offered to come to the Indji municipality and do his job, to send an inspection to prevent the robbery, but unfortunately, he didn't respond. Why wouldn't a crow's eye not take out, as our people say, one who robs the state has no reason to protect others from being robbed. These are all the reasons why Mr Dinkic should resign, which is why this amendment should be adopted, and it should end well behind the Central Prison of Serbia lock, and in doing so the SRS will help him with the air, he should not worry about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13692	The People's Messenger Goran Cvetanović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Sava Urosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are well known for having a good and quality amendment then indeed all MPs defend it, and one such amendment is exactly the one that is before us. With that amendment, we want a lot of things to be clear. First of all, as Mr. Mladjan Dinkic made foreign exchange reserves for commercial banks at Standard Bank in London, he made a income difference, worth $2m a year. How is it possible that the deposited foreign currency of the National Bank in Vexim Bank, and now it's the Euroaxis Bank of Moscow? Were there any doubts about the disappearance of gold, silver from the vault, or were they unfounded? What about the bills that were printed in London, and then it turned out that there was no adequate printing done? What about the donation from the French government of 399,000 euros, received by Mr Dinkic? Mr Dinkic is primarily known for his Furious Incursion, along with a group of armed persons, on October 5th 2000 in afternoon classes at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the then Boulevard of the Revolution, and today, Bulevar of the King Alexander, where the archives of money are made in Cyprus. The persons who were then represented as people from the crisis headquarters, armed with guns, were personally led by Mr Dinkic. He's usually people who were present without ID and told them that they had to keep all the archives and buildings that were there, so where the complete documentation is in the National Bank. To this day we don't know what was done with that archive. Mr Dinkic has good connections around the world, primarily has good connections with London; Britain is his most interesting destination, especially the FIA agency from London. It provides intelligence services to governments, companies or individuals, collecting evidence from organised crime, so it is no wonder Mr Dinkic has good connections with them. The FIA has only asked somewhere from 500,000 to a million English pounds to compensate for Mr Minić, as a representative of FIA, to do adequate things for Mr Dinkic. There's no big compensation for that. The NBJ only paid £100,000 at the start. Later, in four months, FIA representatives spent only £300,000, only on hotel bills and airline tickets spent £150,000. In the experts' analysis, since G17 plus is known for these analyses, there were two alternatives, two reasons for all of this. The first is that Mr Dinkic and his team do not want to trace the money, because they do not want anyone, as a third party, to participate in it, primarily because of their vanity, and there is a high probability that it is due to ignorance, or that all glory for the discovery of the missing billions remains to itself. Another conclusion imposed on Serbian lawmakers and citizens is that his team has completely other intentions, and these intentions are certainly not the return of money to Serbia, and that it is precisely for such activities that no witnesses are wanted or needed. The fact is, there is really no theoretical chance for those couples to return, because no single dollar has been returned to Serbia. After taking over the governor's chair, Mr Dinkic grabbed, along with his associates, only the right to deal with these investigations. In early 2000, he refused any professional assistance from anyone. He was sure he could do it all by himself. I wouldn't mind if he realized it. Mr Dinkic found the documentation, as a front of the company, and above all "Antexola", removed it from the eyes of the public, and the companies that handled billions of dollars of our money left it to the Cypriots to continue managing them because they are more capable than we are. He launched a procedure to liquidate four banks in Belgrade, against the law, by preventing their recovery. These banks, i.e. the ownership of SDK, transferred ownership to the National Savings Bank, which they then converted into private ownership of close business partners. Requests for liquidating banks have turned into debts that Serbian citizens have to pay in the future. Mr Dinkic has not notified anyone of the investigations in Cyprus until today. These reports, signed by his team members, to this day, are hidden from the public. I'll remind you in the end that, by Article 22. The NBJ law, Mr Dinkic was obliged to submit a report in the area of his activities to the Serbian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13694	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sava Urosevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Bora Kutic, and then Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13695	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to the discussions of previous colleagues, which were also in favour of this law and also against this law. All arguments made in these discussions are motivated by the benefit of the citizens. They're both like this and like that. They can argue, they can confirm, but I'll make two arguments. The first is that, after the closure of four major Serbian banks, only in Serbian banking, as part of the Serbian economy, has increased employment. Today, more people work in Serbian banking than at a time when the backbone of the banking system was made up of four large banks. The second argument is something the citizens did. At a time when the backbone of the banking system consisted of four large banks saving citizens was negligible. Today, when we have a new banking system, which is set on new foundations, savings in Serbian banks are a billion and 400 million, which is the best proof that the move with four banks shut down and liquidated is fully successful and that it leads to the recovery of Serbian banking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13696	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bora Kutić has the word, and the Messenger of the people is Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Zoran Krasic, on behalf of the SRS, has submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on regulation of the relations of the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy, etc. As a lawyer, a criminal, I can tell you that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was obliged and obliged first to report what he found in the NBS on 6 October, to know what was found and what was the funds in Cyprus. It is most likely that there has been information that the vast resources of our businesses in Cyprus are. Such a report has not been filed. We can also conclude that Mladjan Dinkic, on October 6th, I speak as a criminal, committed a crime of robbery and was to file criminal charges for a crime. I don't know why it wasn't done. If the SRS wins the next election, we will certainly examine all facts regarding the October 6th events. I don't think this bill would have been necessary if those funds had been found in Cyprus and were returned to the state to help our troubled economy. I just want to talk about what I have some relevant facts about in front of me, and surely the facts are what happened on October 6th. There are also elements of organized crime. I think the MPs should think twice about accepting Mr. Zoran Krasic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13698	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric. He's giving up. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, so the MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13699	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is one thing that Mladjan Dinkic has done. He helped one Serbian citizen, not all Serbian citizens did the favor, and that only citizen to whom he did well was his grandmother. E, he couldn't leave her without a pension, so he took care of his grandmother; and how, in power, the finance minister, and he was just about to let the members of his family not be taken care of. It is undeniable that no one else to Mladjan Dinkic is responsible for the financial situation and for numerous anti-constitutional and illegal actions. He didn't need a state institution to declare him governor of the NBS. Mladjan Dinkic enters the bank in a specific way, as none of Serbia's citizens enter. The question arises – who destroyed the financial system? Who closed four major state banks? Who introduced foreign banks into Serbia's market and allowed them to purchase foreign currency savings in Serbia? Who took all the key positions in financial institutions and public enterprises? What is the connection between Mladjan Dinkic and Serbian-Montenegrin Mafia's best man, Vojin Lazarevic? It's an interesting relationship. Their wives are hanging out, yeah. (response commentary from the O.R. ) In the banking sector only the personal criteria of Mladjan Dinkic in the area of bank control apply. Who favors Delta Bank, and that's very discreet and interesting. Who determines the daily course of the dinar – the market or Mladjan Dinkić? Certainly Mladjan Dinkic. Who destroys Serbia's economy through the banking sector? Who created the biggest interesting lobby Delta – Dinkic and Vuk Hamovic. Who humiliated the citizens of Serbia by developing a denunciative activity and reward of 500 dinars? Article 1 of this proposal must be deleted, and the SRS and Serbian citizens will be removed from the political scene of Mladjan Dinkic. In particular, the people were offended by the notion that the future should not and should not be stolen without Labus and Junior.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13700	Here's a word from MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13701	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 1. The draft law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign credits, i.e. loans, reads - Article 1 is deleted, and makes sense that practically the whole law, or members who follow, becomes unthinkable this way because the SRS parliamentary group is against this law. I'll give you an example of what the Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation did when it comes to the ′′Borska Banka′′. It was not declared bankruptcy, nor liquidation, but a restitution was declared. Of course, no one has ever informed the citizens of Bora, nor has the employee of what degree the bank's recovery has reached, but simply, the bank has been quietly liquidated. Now an attractive business space is sold into the devoid of coalition partners at the local level, and the relations that ′′Borska Banka′′ had towards some other, especially foreign, creditors will be taken over by the Republic of Serbia; that is, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia should pay one of the coalition partners at the local level that will reach a very attractive business space. Therefore, an amendment to Article 1 has been tabled in order to fully reflect this law, as Article 2 is also practically referred to as Article 1 of this Law. I find it interesting that the presentation of the authorised representative of Mr. Vukic's Serbian Radical Party, and even today's explanation of these amendments, does not want to listen to Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. I think there's two reasons for that. The first may be the vanity of Mr. Minister, or his lack of desire to hear someone thinks something bad about the policy he leads and the ministry he leads in the way he leads. That's the first thing anyone in public function has to do. He should not have allowed the National Assembly to work today and the MPs to criticise him without him hearing it. The second reason, which is far more dangerous in the National Assembly, is that it is practically insubordination of the National Assembly. We are in a situation today for the second or third time, and perhaps more so, when it comes to the Minister of Finance, that if the MPs adopt something, which happened last year by adopting a number of amendments to one law, he does not accept it and after two weeks return the law to the Assembly for readmission. Practically, the Assembly today acts as a government service, which is inadmissible, and the Assembly, or 126 or slightly more MPs, must pass laws in the form the government proposes, thus completely losing the sense of the legislative part of the government. I think this attitude towards the National Assembly and to the MPs by the finance minister is practically unbearable from the aspect of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. But what I can still say is that everything Mr. Aleksandar Vukic said in his presentation about the functioning of the Ministry of Finance, about the functioning of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, whose governor was Mladjan Dinkic, is true. This is confirmed by citizens who feel that something suspicious is being done with the money of the citizens of this country, that no one can understand why the financial system of the Republic of Serbia is being destroyed in such a brutal way, why all business activities are being destroyed and why there is a desire for the finance minister to, say, close at least 18 different small businesses or shops daily in Serbia. This simply puts all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in a position to feel insecure, primarily economically, and this leads to a very quick need to enter some new elections, as this has become unbearable. I hope, or I'm sure in these new elections, we'll get quality authority, whose bearer will be the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13702	The word of the messenger of the people is Mita Abram; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have seen for yourself how much air support there is regarding Mr Krasic's amendment, which requires that full Article 1 be abolished. That this member is not a good speech and Mr Dinkic, the finance minister, who entered politics, we know how and how. When group G17 plus was formed, they said they would never participate in the elections, that there would be no political party, and that they would always look to help any government that would ask them for any help. But we all know what happened on October 5, 2000; there were more speeches here as the gentleman became governor, the self-proclaimed governor. No one put him in that place. Then they started a party with which they went on a political scene, and they said they'd never do it. It is said in our people – who is lying and stealing, and it is evident that there are many facts about Mr Dinkic, who has embezzled four billion, is not known where they are. He went to Cyprus to find them, found them, and didn't bring them. We don't just know where he passed them. In his exposé, MP Aleksandar Vukic exhibited here for two hours all the misdemeanors that the minister did, and he had little time, so this time that we have is also very short to say everything he has done, or what he has not done, and he has done for himself, for his own personal interest, for his own party. Wherever the G17 plus party is in power, in some municipality, it feels like their experts, they haven't done anything right. There are such problems everywhere. It is said, "What kind of boss is this?" He simply conveys his ideas to his other associates here in the Assembly, even at the local level. Mladjan Dinkic is not pleased that he has destroyed so many banks and that he has a desire to destroy more, but has dared to interfere with the JAT, where mechanics who are unhappy with their salary strike today strike. They were here today in front of the republican parliament, bringing in other Tunisian experts to JAT, and it was discovered in the end that they weren't experts, that they couldn't fix any aircraft. I don't know what reason they brought them in. They simply want to destroy it, or privatize it. First it's worth it, then it's bought for as cheap as possible. I don't think the London and Paris Club are involved, because they are the main associates of Minister Dinkic. For that reason, once again, I underline that this member should be abolished as a whole. I think that would be good for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And one day when the SRS comes to power, and it's not far away, the people of Serbia will see who's fenced in crime, who's been robbing people's money, where he's been carrying them, where he's dragged them away, and we'll know that we'll punish all the participants in the robbery of people's couples in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13704	The People's MP Ivan Zivadinović has the word, and let MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13705	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you once again that we MPs from G17 plus support this technical law that came from the Ministry of Finance and that we will not support Mr. Krasic's amendment for any number of reasons. We have been not talking about the amendment and the law for several hours now, but we are dealing with the problems of Mladjan Dinkic and we are constantly suffering attacks directed towards the G17 Plus parliamentary group and Mladjan Dinkic. What we have to say, and we have repeated it many times, although some people are not worth talking about, Mladjan Dinkic is not fully understood in weapons. Mladjan Dinkic is understood in a pen, in a computer, in a guitar, in an economy, in many other nice things. He never dealt with weapons, not even in the army he didn't see guns or guns, but he was working on some mortar. It should be said in this home that by the time Mladjan Dinkic arrived in the NBS Serbia had written only black pages of history, which we will not cancel, because they should serve as a reminder of our future, pages of history that did not serve us honour. Since the arrival of Mladjan Dinkic and our people have begun to print some brighter pages of history. We hope there will be more. Until the arrival of Mladjan Dinkic in NBJ, and then at NBS, this was (a 100,00 dinar bill) just a piece of paper. With his signature, this has become a bill, and that's the first time in 60 years it's worth in this country and in the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you, in the future, to treat both the President and the Vice-Presidents of the G17 plus, but also the MPs of the G17 plus, because we deserve it, as worthy and responsible MPs and people doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13706	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13707	Since you're guardians of the character and the work of Mladjan Dinkic and you say he doesn't know about weapons, ask him if he knows about CDs, and what it means to him by the pseudonym "Avram nesparić", and how much money he took on that basis and how the "Grand Production" got rich out of it. How is it that she, who was caught in smuggling, chooses an apartment that goes as a reward that the Ministry of Finance gives to the poor? I respect everyone the people have chosen. On the other hand, you MPs G17 plus deserve our respect. And you're a part of the people, so you don't have to question at all whether we respect you because you're MPs. Yes, we respect you. Do we respect you for defending Mladjan Dinkic? No, we don't respect you. Defend what no one in Serbia should defend: huge robberies, measuring tens of millions of euros, destroying everything alive in Serbia. Did you find the coincidence of destroying JAT and raising the Delta airline that Mladjan Dinkic took pictures of when she was selling the bank? For one feather VAT is seven pairs, ten pairs, three dinars, it doesn't matter. What's VAT for a bank sale? Does the state have any of that? If there's nothing to it, if our citizen sold his foreign bank to a foreign banker, what's the picture of the finance minister? Why is the picture taken by the finance minister when two foreigners exchange banks between themselves and when the state has no dinars and when that capital comes in as foreign capital to ruin our JAT, to build its own airline? It's normal for you. Someone convinced you it was perfectly normal. You don't care how the National Savings Bank was created. You are not interested in the fact that Mladjan Dinkic kept $50m in Moscow uninterrupted, in a bank that Jelasic wrote was suspicious and asked him to withdraw that placement and put it in a solid bank, the money the energy mafia traded with electricity. You know how tenders are scheduled to buy electricity. The state did not guarantee that it would pay for that electricity and no one participated except Hamovic and Lazarevic, who already had 50 million state money every day in their account. You don't care about that. You say - we are the political party that voted the post in parliament. I agree. You say everything was black until the arrival of Mladjan Dinkic. And what's been white since he got here? I heard one MP say earlier that there are now a billion and three hundred or four million euros in savings in our banks. In which, what is the name of this Serbian bank that holds the savings? (President: Time. ) No, but you brought foreign banks' exposures, they exchanged stamps for the euro. Mladjan Dinkic favoured the security of savings in those banks. Our savings on very low interest are in those banks. Our money returns on high interest to our citizens and our economy, or our money serves to buy our economy. (President: Time. ) You’re praising it and you’ll find some justification for it. I'll tell you. Labus is going to run off to some... (President: Mr. Nikolic, four minutes. Please finish. ) Mr Markovic, when you contacted the Business at the end of the last day last week you said you were advertising a member of 100th and when the chairman warned you that you had exceeded time for 3.46 minutes, you said – I have a right five minutes. That's your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. (President: Yes, but since I have been warned more than once today that I have to stick to time, be kind and finish. ) This is your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. When Predrag Markovic speaks, he can spend five minutes, and Tomislav Nikolic can speak for three minutes. And I understand that. Here, just in two sentences to tell you where anyone will go. Maybe that's what you're interested in. (President: I know that. Then nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13708	My job is to have accurate information, as you know. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13709	Mr. Zivadinovic has come forward about the amendment. I appreciate that. He came out and said he wouldn't support the amendment. However, I volunteered for the replica because it was used as an argument – Mladjan Dinkic, the second time Mladjan Dinkic, and the third time Mladjan Dinkic. The basic argument why he will not vote for the amendment is Mladjan Dinkic. I have to get my discussion back, because I don't really care if someone disrespects my amendment that is essential. I also have to warn Mr. Zivadinovic and Mr. Albianic, although I am surprised that he is not defending Dinkic today, but well, it is a new tactic, to warn one thing: before this law, a report had to come, that experts with papers, evidence and data convinced us that this law was necessary. That's not what happened. Mladjan Dinkic came out, told a five- or six-minute story that Labus wrote about him reading, picking himself up and leaving. The point of the amendment is, above all, to draw attention to the MPs so that they know what regulates the law. If you pass that law, then it means that reckless debt write-off, co-operation with the London and Paris Club, also directed by the G17 plus, has its own secret deal. The secret deal involves shutting down Serbian banking, throwing people out on the street, forming a National Savings Bank. Prepare, there will soon be another part of the book "Democratic Robbery of Serbia", where there will be talks on the National Savings and how money has been moved from Cyprus. I guess you, as the red book in China means what Mao Ce Tung's, should hold the economy of destruction. There your idea leader Dinkic wrote – money was taken to the sacks. He went, searched, found the paperwork, removed the paperwork. Apparently, the money's gone. The money went to exotic islands. Now they appear in the privatisation process through selected companies. Therefore, this country must not adopt this law and all claims must go into the state's claim to the economy, in order to be a guarantee of return, allegedly, of some credits. If that money had been paid back, as Dinkic and DOS promised, no bank would have gone bankrupt. The Belgrade Bank would be the most successful bank in the country. We're listening to him last night because last Monday he shouldn't have come on a TV show with Borko Vukic. Yesterday, on a set-up TV show, he's giving us some lectures, some experts, experts. What experts, what experts. Where are $4.3 billion from Cyprus? He wrote, he gave evidence that they existed. Where are the people of the state security, the police who went looking, where is Velimir Ilic, where is this Batic, who doesn't say where the money is? All roads lead to Mladjan Dinic. Besides, your Vesna Barac... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... She filed criminal charges for the National Savings Bank. Where are these ministers, where is the republican public prosecutor, why doesn't it open up and resolve it? And don't lecture us here, because time in Serbia counts on study and study. Since it's supposed to be a study, everything can be accepted now. When the study is adopted, it'll be better. What's gonna get better? The money's gone, you grabbed the money, you grabbed the JAT, who knows where you're gonna end up with those planes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13710	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I really ask all MPs to respect Mr Krasic's request, thank you. He is the author of the amendment, and you heard, he feels like an insult whenever someone comes out for the amendment and talks about Mr Dinkic. Please don't do this. You wanted a replica? It can't be a replica, it was a replica of your exposure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Wrongly interpreted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13711	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to that 100th member you all call upon. With all due respect, Mr. Nikolic and Krasic, as great masters of the parliamentary trade, I owe the answer to the question, since Mr. Nikolic first asked the question, and then he concluded in five or six minutes some more things. Does Mladjan Dinkic know how to drive? Of course. He recorded a disc in 2000, with one group of musicians, as propaganda material in the DOS campaign; and then he recorded some other stuff with his music friends, and I hope it stays that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13712	Replica, and this was according to the Rules of Procedure, right on the line, Mr. Nikolic. He's personally called. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13713	I didn't ask if he understood how to record disks. I asked, and I asked you to ask him if he knew about disc smuggling. Did he stop the action of the police and the Tax Administration in which hundreds of thousands of CDs were discovered? Did the action take part in ′′Avram besparic′′, which has long since been a freeman, but its nickname? Did the man responsible for the tax investigation refuse to obey Dinkic's order sent to him by Ilic? That's the kind of drive I was thinking about. The story of the famous ′′Grand′′ recording the CD and printing it here in a thousand copies, with Bulgaria importing 300-400 thousand copies, so that there is no VAT, no income for the state and that it is sold on black and that ′′Avram besparic's part in it. That's the kind of CD I was thinking about. Don't push me too hard, I'm preparing it for court. Maybe now you can cover those tracks, but there's so much I have left that no one can wash it anymore. Just make sure you get rid of it, make sure you stay away, you're an honest and honest man, that's what I saw here in the congregation. Make sure you stay out of it. Ask him first, let him give you evidence, so come out here with evidence to defend him. The fact that he's the vice president of the party or the president doesn't matter at all. You have seen how Labus answered at least two difficult questions – ask Dinkic, ask Dinkic. You know, when I take part in some show and they tell me something about Zoran Krasic, I answer right away. If I have to say-- ask him that, that means I can't say what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13714	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, said one of the predecessors, a member of the G17 Plus party, that that 100 dinar bill was valued when Mladjan Dinkic was signed on it. And I'm telling you, for that bill you can buy one pack of cigarettes. When this man in the picture, the Serbian hero, runs this country, then that bill will really be worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, words are used, Mladjan Dinkic is a guarantee and an argument, and we are only looking for evidence, analysis, studies, and we are asking for someone to tell us why we should support this law. We're really asking for the first term to be deleted. Here's why we still have to tell you why we don't trust any law signed by Labus, and it's defended by Dinkic. This is an expert magazine -- road and traffic number 3, September-December 2004, where a study was conducted on the justification of Belgrade-Pozega concessions. Only at that concession, on that road section, is the concessionary during which he uses the road to earn a net billion and 500m euros, and you know that we have three shares, everything else is Serbia's robbery. The concession decision was signed by Labus, the concept is represented by Dinkic; Serbian radicals will never support any proposal that comes from the two because they are currently working on Serbia's robbery. When you said that Dinkic understood the discs and that he even recorded one disk, I watched this disk, which is – a small robbery by the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13716	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13717	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very important to say that not only the G17 Plus parliamentary group, but the entire government's majority will vote in favour of the proposed law and will not vote in favour of the proposed amendment. I will remind you that the laws are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and on behalf of the Government, we were reported by Mr Mladjan Dinkic on this law. The law is of a technical nature, but an interesting discussion has opened up and I can tell you that in 2000 and October 5th is a historic turning point in the life of the Serbian state. We have turned from the totalitarian regime into a democratic but not only democratically spoken by the term and way of functioning in the Assembly, but also because in Serbia, reforms, changes in the system and the renewal and consolidation of institutions in the state, among many institutions, are essentially in the banking system. It is very important that we stay out of the cause and consequences. Someone from this country did in the previous period, before 5 October, amounted to money, that's the point. Now some others want to ask why we couldn't get that money back. Someone in this country had previously destroyed Serbian banks and the four banks we are talking about owed 8 billion marks. And if workers in the state of Serbia work 18 months to give their money, that pay for the recovery of these banks, that's not possible. We know that today a citizen normally enters a bank, normally he can raise his salary from a bank account, not thinking that tomorrow there will be no such money. I guess we shouldn't remember what it looked like when you had to change your salary today, because tomorrow won't be worth anything at all, not just five marks. So, in the right sense, there was a real reform of the banking system. Today there are more employees, today savings are 1.500,000 euros. That's the facts. Today you can raise the money at the ATM, which was once unimaginable. But not only that, not just the banking system, this is where the reforms started in all areas of social life and what is the essence, it's that we really are on the verge of getting a positive assessment of the feasibility study. So this country has set out a European path; by changing the system of reforms we will meet in the family of European countries. Citizens should be told that for them it means that they will essentially live better, that the salaries will be higher, that we will get money to help infrastructure and raise institutions, to raise agriculture and villages. I will only remind you that ten EU member countries receive 40 billion euros in aid from 2004 to 2006. These are concrete things to raise infrastructure and institutions themselves in these countries. Unfortunately, we've been late for many years. For 15 years, we have been late for changes that have been going on tirelessly in the countries of Eastern Europe. But by our quick work, of course, we will succeed in achieving what was ruined in the previous period. We are here to raise the system properly, we are here because Europe has given us a hand; from the External Relations Directorate, we are in the Association Directorate today. It's a clear signal that they want to cooperate with us. We want to go with them too, that's how it's gonna be. Following a positive assessment, accession and stabilisation negotiations are taking place, which means wind in the back for Serbia's state, for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13718	The word has a People's MP... Replica, Zoran Krasic. Did you mention that? Then you better call a member of the Rules of Procedure if you're misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13719	Mr. Chairman, are you going to interpret this as a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure I leave it to you. According to this new practice for these years, everything is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and probably that Article 100 meets the need for the President of the Assembly not to call you out why you gave me your word. Please, the previous speaker didn't mention a single word about the amendment. The text of the amendment was thus downplayed, and the text of the amendment reads: "Article 1 is deleted.". We heard here an epic about how humane it is when someone with socks and scorpions walks into the NBJ and allegedly seduces order. We heard again about Mladjan Dinkic, who is successful, for whatever he gets, it's a success. He is in charge of all things: and for a stable currency, and for JAT, and for the railways, and for the railways, and for the roads, and for the wages, and for the kindergartens, and for the release, and for the employment, and, as we have seen, for the smuggling of the discs. It's not covered by my amendment. My amendment does not concern this beautiful journey to the European future, which Mr Albianic was very emotional about, but without any facts, here explained almost five minutes. I do not allow false information to be made out of my amendment. There's a lot of untrue data here. If these experts knew little and looked at the final account of the European Central Bank and compared the financial market and, in general, the EU's public finances, which they weigh, I have nothing against that requirement, then I must warn them that France and Germany have had a budget deficit above 3% of the social product for several years, past all EU rules. Don't talk to us about European standards. Come on, stand up for German and French standards. You don't want to talk about it. You're throwing fog in here. You count the time before the Study and after the Study, to Christ and after Christ. Do not belittle the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You see for yourself, after you are the only lines to the lottery. They're only relying on some luck, if they can get something. The job was executed, everything else was tight, there's nowhere to live. Word is -- everything has to be lit up to make something new, and the amendment concerns money, 4.5 billion, 4.300,000, which were in Cyprus. What you didn't return, as you promised, is how professionally you described in your book "Economy of Destruction", which is your parole, it's your red booklet. Keep what you promised. If everything before you was black, let's show you to be white, but you're avoiding talking about it. Of course, we suspect that this money is in some hidden accounts and that they are returning through the privatisation process to the Republic of Serbia, by getting some new bosses for the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We found this hoax for you, and that's why we submitted this amendment to give you this supposed technical regulation... Based on technical regulations, you have destroyed the financial system in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know how that original DOS could have suffered the economic policy of Labus and Dinkic. No wonder you lost the election, and so are you who are with them in the coalition, you know, a statistical mistake will be if you continue like this. I can't wait for Albianic to defend Labus and Dinkic. It's a safe defense. It's a confirmation of all our attacks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13720	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13721	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hear from one MP that when we speak here at this pay phone we should use facts. I'm also used to using facts in communication, and the fact is that by closing four banks, 8,000 people lost their jobs. Today, however, 9,000 people got a job. As for one MP's statement that the money saved by citizens in banks is not domestic but exclusively in foreign banks, the fact is that the money is still in domestic banks. I will list several domestic banks, which are: Commercial Bank, Vojvodjanska Banka, Pannonian Banka and so on. There's more, lots more. Anyway, that's all the banks that work well. As for the money you're talking about on this amendment, I don't see what this has to do with this amendment, but since you're talking about it, I'm taking the opportunity to say the same thing about it. You've been asking us all kinds of questions here. I also allow myself to ask one question to the Serbian Radical Party. The fact is that money has been taken from this country for years. The fact is, you were in power during one period. The fact is that there are former ministers sitting here, who could, if they wanted to and could, find that money, if they're so worried now, after five or six years, where is that money. I'm asking colleagues from the SRS, former ministers, former government why she didn't try to get that money back or maybe she tried, but she didn't want to, or maybe she was involved in bringing out those money. Answer those questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13722	National MP Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13723	You see, Mr. President, how much better this is going when we get to the field of fact. As we cry out for facts, here you see, I'm sure you haven't read Dinkic's book "Economy of Destruction", but I'm even more sure you haven't even read the book "Democratic Robbery of Serbia". If you had read that, you would have seen that the money Dinkic wrote in the book was transferred from 1991 to 1993, and the SRS was in power from 24 March 1998 to 25 October 2000. You know, the calendar doesn't change that much; that difference disproves everything you've said. Why is this amendment closely related to the funds found, according to Mladjan Dinkic, in Cyprus? Because if Dinkic returned those funds... And I have to tell you that on the basis of the power of attorney, Cyprus and Velimir Ilic, and later Vladan Batić; their inspections produced only as much fruit as they made a statement – for all of you to inform Mladjan Dinkic. When asked if you knew anything – ask Mladjan Dinkic. So, however you turn, the question of money in Cyprus and what has been brought out of the country and what has been blocked in the meantime by some foreign states is the question to be answered by Mladjan Dinkic. I fully support my predecessor, because I see her crying out for information from Mladjan Dinkic. Mladjan Dinkic should sit here and explain to us, I support you in that. If Mladjan Dinkic had explained when he asked for, how much he wanted, where he hid the documentation, why he had to shut down these four banks... And if you don't believe me, go to the government of the Republic of Serbia, you have that anti-corruption team there, as it is called. Verica Barać sent huge documentation to the republican public prosecutor, against whom – Mladjan Dinkic, the one Zivanovic, one Acimovic, this one of your Dusan Lalić and all those who had any influence and insight into the documentation and accounts in Cyprus from 2001 to 2003. It's all in your ranks. If you care so much about facts and truth and justice, ask your party, in your government, you will get facts. Doesn't it seem devastating to you that we as an opposition party present argument and evidence against those of your party who have done something? The fact that there is no Dinkic to answer these questions, the very fact that last Monday was not allowed to go on a TV show against Borka Vukic, but yesterday the poor man had to come in praises to talk about a fight... And who's he up against? Don't let him fight. We've seen his fights. His struggles are devastating for the Republic of Serbia, that's what this is about. Now, this law, as you say -- by technical and expert law, should cover the entire malversion. Where is this FIA agency; he purposely sent the FIA to look for bills in the wrong place to convince the public that there is no such money, and he didn't convince us. We believe Dinkic, he said he had money, but we don't believe he didn't find them, and we're sure that through offshore companies and bank accounts from those islands they come to this country. Dinkic has to make an account, if not under this law, then the next one, if not the next one, then the next one. If none of these comes to the agenda, the Statute of the National Bank of Serbia; it will have to make an account and you will defend it. I hope you can defend him with facts, because what I heard from you is so wrong that he's sitting in some office right now and he's following this transmission and he's saying, "Let mine not come out to defend me anymore, my head is swelling from the defense."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13724	Nadika Momirov, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13725	I was misread and asked another MP from the Serbian Radical Party to come out and answer the question why you did not return the money that was taken to Cyprus during the period in which you were in power. That was my question, I asked the question, and you went out and talked about something else entirely, I don't know who you're talking to; if you're able to answer the question, if you don't, let another MP come out. By the way, as for your commentary that now, in this period, it stands in line and waits for "Loto," I just want to remind you that in your time there was standing and waiting for bread, gasoline and everything that our citizens needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13726	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to notice that something happened to the G17 Plus MPs, they don't seem to know who they're in power with. You are in power with the Socialist Party of Serbia, which you accuse of standing in line for oil, bread, gasoline, hyperinflation, and I don't know what. You are accusing your coalition partners in the roughest and most brutal manner of all crimes and of everything that has happened in this country. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, the right to tell you, we may have been guilty of not being able to investigate where that money is, maybe because we weren't in the MUP represented, maybe because we weren't in the Ministry of Finance, we had our own minister, or we didn't know how to get rid of it, but I have to tell you, you deal with your comrades and coalition partners. You said that they know where it is, they say that these money is gone, but I can see that you don't mind being together, sitting on boards together, taking, kidnapping, doing whatever you want in this Serbia and nobody can do anything to you. What we in the Serbian Radical Party are proud to point out in every place is the wish of the Serbian citizens that we have accepted as the key goal of our political, economic and social programme, and that is to fight corruption, the fight for a better life for Serbian citizens. In that fight of that petty prank, it was during the former government, during your coalition partners, it was 10 years of the power of your current coalition partners, who apparently continue to rule Serbia, now through you, once through JUL, once over this, and once over that. Don't talk about that time anymore, because I think you'll piss off the coalition partners, and they won't think of it again to support you as warmly and Dinkic protects you as they did until yesterday. As far as we're concerned in the Serbian Radical Party, don't worry about our health, we're good, we win, we run more than 10% second-placed, and you're far from 7th-placed, and for God's sakes, away from the electoral censorship, it's going to become your mental noun. I hope that the citizens of Serbia, as they think they are today, will have the opportunity to judge it very quickly at polling stations, and then we will receive you nicely, just to watch us from above from the balcony, not from here from the gym. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13728	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic, MP, asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13729	You know, it's got to happen again for the second time. Mladjan Dinkic said that the money in the sacks was delivered from 1991 to 1993 and now I am asking those from G17 plus to hear very well this second part of the sentence: the SRS was in power from 24 March 1998, during 24 March 1999, when your friends started attacking the SRJ until 25 October 2000, when thanks to the prevention of the assassination in front of this building, 200 long pipes organised by Covic and what helped Batic, I don't even know what his name was, practically dropped by the government, in the elections for the president of the SRJ it happened that the Republic government had fallen. So the money was made in one period. The SRS was in power after seven years. I guess that's not hard to figure out. Now, to prove to you what you're trying to prove, I'm going to read to you what the J.B.'s workers wrote. Now, they say, among other things, they lost people's jobs, stocks, actions, so I don't talk about it, it's like this -- on November 22, 2000, in the Bubanj stream 4,200,000 German marks and 70,000 Swiss francs from the van of that bank were kidnapped. Then, in fact, the governor of NBJ was Mladjan Dinkic, only to take off his sock. So he took off his sock and he was. In addition to two newspaper articles, where the question is asked, or commenting on what happened, there is no official information to this day about where the money is. I invite you from G17 plus to ask Mladjan Dinkic, because this is what the former employees of JU Bank AD Belgrade ask – where are the money. They're absolutely sure where the money is. Serbian citizens are also interested as far as possible. In your economy of destruction, it is said that there are two billion marks in the straws. And when there were later those massive conversions, first over one exchange rate, and then officially for the euro, 7.5 billion appeared; well, when you take what's been bought and what's sold, you can see that three billion don't fit. It's three billion mob couples from abroad, which are officially washed via the NBJ. And today they're laundering that money. And that's why we're almost the only country in the Balkan territory in which the alleged foreign banks, a bank with a borrowed name from abroad, are reigning. There is no lending in the economy, or it is modest; something is small with consumer loans; but that is why exchange business, payment to abroad and money laundering features of the banking system are directed by G17 plus. That's what we're talking about. That is why we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 to tell the citizens of Serbia – it is not exactly how Mladjan Dinkic and Labus talk. And we'll come to the insurance companies and other banks that are shutting down. Well, don't you find it strange that eight times the Supreme Court's decision is not carried out, but that the decision to shut down and repeat some banks is continued? Well, you respect nothing but your will. The fifth of October is long gone. You remember him by something. Ask the citizens of Serbia what they remember him by.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13730	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13731	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have come out to support Mr Krasic's amendment and to give an additional explanation, which has not been heard in this debate. Let me remind you, just three years ago, the Vice-President of the Federal Government Mr. Labus regulated travel routes and crossings from Kosovo and Metohija to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so not all roads are covered. I am one road away from Leposavic towards Brzeć at a crossing called Mramor, and the police have stopped me and said - sir, you cannot leave the territory of Kosovo here, you must return because you are entering the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It was still three years ago and this devastating policy, especially for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, continues by G17 plus. Namely, what's going on? After the vote of law and the introduction of VAT, Mr Mladjan Dinkic wants to introduce customs procedures, customs at administrative crossings towards Kosovo and Metohija. When I say customs, I mean that customs declaration, the expedition, etc. and everything UNMIK and KFOR tried to do three years ago and failed, because the Serbs then, to remind you, were strikening for 78 days, and there were victims. Let me remind you that Vesko Djuric lost his leg, that Ivica Kalezić lost his hand. Finally, without support in Resolution 1244, KFOR and UNMIK gave up. But that's why they found a partner in Mladjan Dinkic, that he would introduce it with his regulations, and then KFOR and UNMIK would have a reason -- if Serbia and the Serbian government could introduce customs, then why can't we introduce customs procedures towards Serbia. This is the co-operation between these international organisations and G17 plus. There is another big reason why citizens, especially Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, are against Mladjan Dinkic's policies. In the last year, no single dinar has been invested since Mr Dinkic's arrival in power in Kosovo and Metohija. You remember that an additional tax on the transport of goods and services from Serbia's territory in Kosovo and Metohija of 5% was introduced earlier; these funds were meant to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I claim that in the last year, since Mladjan Dinkic is the finance minister, except for the current maintenance – and when I say the current one, I mean the salaries and receipts of those who are beneficiaries of the budget – no single dinar has come to Kosovo and Metohija. If we continue to do so, we do not need either the Shipari or the international community, which does not want to help us, and if the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not want it, then it will also come to the goal of making the Serbian and Serb people so weak that they must accept all the conditions. I hope that this story, this googogue, both the destruction of Serbian banking and the introduction of foreign banking, as well as the maternal relationship towards Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, will be the end and that in the coming period, citizens will feel these results and send this political faction to a political dump.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13732	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of talking about this amendment to Mr Krasic, however, I was a little provoked by Mr Zivadinovic with his performance, or when he said here that we were not dealing with the problems of Mladjan Dinkic. All I have to say is that we don't deal with the problem of Mladjan Dinkic. We are dealing with our problems, the problems of Serbian citizens, and the biggest problem of Serbian citizens is Mladjan Dinkic. Serbia does not currently have a bigger problem than Mladjan Dinkic, and therefore we need to explain to Serbian citizens how much this problem is and how fast it is to solve it. Of course, I won't talk about the character and the work of Mladjan Dinkic, because it's already quite said. In his presentation, Mr Vucic explained in detail what is going on, what are and what are the merits of Mladjan Dinkic and what is expected in the near future. Mr Dinkic cannot be protected indefinitely behind the government member's post, which he now has. He must come to justice very quickly, where he is facing a deserved punishment. It is clear to all in Serbia that Mr Dinkic entered the NBJ on October 5th 2000 with long pipes, armed escorts, took over the National Bank illegally, illegally and thereby committed a major crime, and that he must answer for it. It's clear from the criminal report we heard here a few days ago, which was written and sent by an eyewitness to that event. So it's all true, there's no lies or deception. It's clear and that's why Mr. Dinkic has to answer. I hope that punishment will arrive very soon. I would also say -- as far as the financial sector in Serbia is concerned, the situation is mostly the same in all Serbian cities. I just want to point out the events at the Uzic Tax Administration, which are also led by representatives of G17 plus. The Director of the Tax Administration shall be a member of the G17 Plus, and at the same time a director of a non-governmental organisation, which is registered as such in the competent authorities. The same director of the Tax Administration in Uzic in the last month received 10 new people in the Tax Administration; all members of G17 plus and very close to the mentioned Mr. Zivadinovic who spoke here earlier. So, the situation is very bad and difficult in the financial sector throughout Serbia. It's about the nepotism that is present in every institution that is controlled by G17 plus. This should be pointed out to the citizens of Serbia and should be fought against. Once again, there will come a very quick day after the next elections, when responsibility for everything done not only by G17 Plus members, but by all those political organisations that exercised power in Serbia in the previous period will come to the agenda, so that Serbia can move forward one day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13734	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13735	Dear People's MPs, this debate has been extended, and I, like my other party comrades, also want to support the amendment of SRS MP Zoran Krasic, who has proposed an amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law. Of course, I fully agree with Mr Krasic, and I think it is necessary to delete the first member of the proposed law. I think this debate has shown one thing, which has been proved absolutely here, and because of our citizens here we have to point out -- a red thread of destruction of the legal and financial system that exists in Serbia today has been proven. Who is this red thread that allows the destruction of this system to occur? That's clearly shown, and that's group G17 plus. How? At first, there was a group G17 plus as an expert team. At the time, the group participated in many projects, applied for many of the projects that the international community had called here. What's interesting, many of these projects seem to have received a G17 plus expert group. The other thing that's interesting is that we can't look at these projects today, we can't see the solutions offered by these projects, and we know that these projects are done. I think it's about time, if we want to be Europe and if we want to be a democratic society, someone shows us these projects, see who the projects are, who the participants are, and what solutions are offered. That's necessary. What happens after that? Simply, the G17 Plus Group is becoming suddenly a political party, a party now implementing projects in which it participated along with suspected foreigners from Europe. They are now implementing these projects, and this law should enable what Mr. Vukic said clearly in his exposé – to control the implementation of these projects. That's too much. Not that it's a conflict of interest, but it's a highly suspicious thing to make it clear to the end. It's interesting, when we talk about all this, where Mr. Secretary is. Two are clear reasons. The first was, and he proved it, that he did not respect this congregation. The minister who respects the congregation will hold the debate, and it will be very unpleasant for him, even if things are brought out that may not be the point of the agenda. This minister made it very clear. We have ministers in this government who and how they respect the Assembly, we have those who respect and disrespect, and this is the minister who absolutely disrespects this assembly. But the second is why he's not here today. He has no answers and no arguments to oppose what was presented in the presentation of Mr. Vukic. When you hear an argument here that defends the law, that we have foreign reserves, you can immediately ask the question of our payment deficit. What does the people of Serbia have from foreign exchange reserves located in some banks, and they are invested there without a tender? What do we have when there's no money here for our economy, when the expensive loans and the people are hard to live for? From that, the people of Serbia have no use and it should be pointed out. The minister must finally answer where the Cypriot money is, he must explain why he closed the Serbian banks. He wasn't enough to close and close Serbian banks, but why he's trying to shut down the Commercial Bank, 100 per cent foreign capital in this country. Let Mr. Secretary answer that. He tried to do it the wrong way these days, and that was the story here. Furthermore, there will have to be an answer to the question of the sugar affair. The sugar affair isn't over. Who's to blame for the sugar affair? Is it possible we'll be paying compensation for the sugar affair? That's what ministers and vice-presidents of the government must also answer us. Corruption is what is a common directory for jobs in which Mr Dinkic and certain friends and associates are located. They are not free European Development Bank projects. He was combing a week ago and a blood transfusion project. We're waiting to see what comes out of it. There are indications that the project was also attended by the G17 Plus Group as an expert group. After all, since you are on the run here and you are diversifying the results achieved by the rule of Labus and Dinkic, who of the great statesmen has been coming to Serbia today, who has been in the last month? The officers are coming, and that's the reality. Why are they bypassing? It's because of these two, because of Dinkic and Labus, and for corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13736	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out to support the amendment that MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the law on regulating the obligations of the Serbian state towards banks that are in bankruptcy. I know that right now I risk my distinguished colleague Zoran Krasic getting a little angry because he does not want the name of Mladjan Dinkic to be mentioned in any context regarding his amendment, however, defending this amendment and the whole law is impossible, without putting Mladjan Dinkic in that context. If he were not an unprofessional man, a man prone to abuse of position, and also a criminal act, in 2005, there would certainly not have been a need for the adoption of such a law in 2005 and four Serbian banks today would have been very successful banks, it would have encouraged the development of agriculture and economic activities in Serbia at all. But since he showed up in that place, I put myself in the governor's seat and did a series of criminal acts and pointless procedures, there was a situation like this that we now have. That it was an irresponsible and irresponsible man, it was seen last night, when he told Serbian citizens, just like in the face, how we all live better just as we don't know it, we're not aware. If it had happened that we hadn't seen it by accident, we wouldn't have known we were living much better with him now than it was in an earlier period. He made an effort to develop one action that no one had succeeded before him, and we hope that in future time no one will organise cynicism at one high level in Serbia, which is to direct neighbours and fellow citizens to each other for some 500 dinar church, which will register, and of course not pay off, to encourage hatred and direct people to one activity that does not stand. Serbian citizens in choosing us as MPs, and later giving us the authority and the right to choose the government did not want to encourage snitching in Serbia, but wanted those who choose to enable and create a better business environment and that they themselves could live better from their work. Next, someone here said that banks are saving more money now. I would think that what is done with JAT may now bring a new quality, but Serbian citizens and JAT employees should know what will happen, that is, what fate will happen to those who are currently working at JAT, and later in some other public enterprises, which are also threatened by liquidation or perhaps by the introduction of some artificial procedures and by creating some extortional situations such as the JAT situation. If they weren't able to see it now, they'd think there might be some better days. However, when it is known that they ended up working in banks and that Serbian citizens went through with it, then it is quite clear what awaits us in some future period. Why does this amendment make sense and why should it be voted in the voting day for this amendment? Because this law is proposed without any basis. So we don't even know what means it is, what means will the Republic of Serbia accept to reconcile on behalf of the banks and what resources they will seek. It's all unknown. It will lead to an unequal position; these banks have been asked by citizens and some other legal entities, but they do not now have the same status as the state will have in the settlement of these funds. So there's a question of what happens to domestic trusts to these banks. Nothing, they'll wait for regular procedure, according to the Restitution and Bank bankruptcy Act. Whether it's charged or not, it's not guaranteed at this point and no one can tell what kind of situation is going to happen. Very often it is mentioned that for this situation, for banking and a number of other affairs, they are mostly responsible, organized and implemented by Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus, and sometimes said someone from G17 plus. In most cases, not the MPs sitting here are thought of, but they are foolishly defending what they are not aware of themselves or simply do not want to know, close their eyes to a very difficult and alarming situation in Serbia, because it is not an expert network to help Serbian citizens, but an expert network to destroy Serbia's standards and better lives. It's real and radical, because radically it's real. During this year, I think we will prevent such relations, stop, when the Serbian Radical Party comes to power. Then we won't have the need to pass these laws and call for us to have passed about 400 laws, probably thought about 40, I took that as a slip, reform laws. Every law will be reformable, but it will be meaningful and will mean better for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13738	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law that regulates relations between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy. I think that today we are all already aware that the bankruptcy of banks, which was implemented in 2001 and 2002, has reversed Serbian banking and put one political party's paw on the whole Serbian economy. The Serbian Radical Party, in any case, disagrees with the adoption of such partial laws by the banking sector. It is necessary for the government to come before us with one strategy, to determine the dynamics of privatisation in the banking sector, as the banking sector is extremely important for the functioning of the entire Serbian economy. Without domestic banks, without banks that can support and strengthen Serbia's economy and affect further development of the Serbian economy will not be possible even a better tomorrow for all Serbian citizens. It's inevitable that part of the bank is privatized. It is certain that foreign banks will also enter the Serbian market. The SRS doesn't fight it. On the contrary, we advocate that the banking market is open because we are aware that foreign banks would bring and mean a cheaper and more efficient banking system and also allow, through an increase in capital supply, to have lower interest rates, which is extremely important for the Serbian economy in today. The fact is that all developed countries are protecting their banking system, not going to privatise and dissipate their banking system, because the only banking system that has at least partial control guarantees economic development. I would say it is a little bit illogical for us to have a law that should regulate the existence of an agency that should support Serbian exports, and at the same time, without any criteria, without any strategy, to privatise the banking sector. The same exports are, in some ways, disabled or put under question, as future exports will depend entirely on the will of foreign banks and foreign capital. I would say one more thing about this law, that it is inappropriate for the Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery and bankruptcy to get this much power, that it is inappropriate that the management of that agency is under the control of one political party – G17 plus, that the governor of the National Bank and the National Bank itself is under the control of the same party, that the Ministry of Finance is also under the control of the same political party. From our experience in the bankruptcy of these banks in 2000, we can conclude that this law will also be very harmful to the banking system. Any such partial solution, which in one non-transparent way solves the banking system, must be rejected by MPs. That is why I call on you not to support this law in the voting day, but to insist that the Government and the Ministry come out with one concrete strategy and dynamics of privatisation and regulation of the banking market.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13740	We're terminating. I'm setting a break to 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13741	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue today's work. According to official records, 101 MPs are present. Please determine the quorum first. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I thank and realize that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I didn't chair, you're on the agenda, here you go. We're talking about Mr Krasic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Zoran Krasic, this amendment to the SRS has proposed that Article 1 be deleted. A bill on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy. All that Mladjan Dinkic, an exguerrer of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the current finance minister, has done to domestic banking, to Serbian citizens, to the Serbian economy, simply cannot pass without responsibility. Mladjan Dinkic today resembles a doctor, a defeated expert, who introduced the patient into a state of clinical death and now, to wash his hands, sends the dying man away, although his salvation is gone, that someone else finally signed his death certificate. It is clear to all citizens of Serbia, who today literally live on the edge of existence, under surveillance, on the target of snitches. So, what was clouded by the former domician, former governor, formerly unbreakable, personal composer Dragan Kotic Kebe, Mladjan Dinkic, several years ago closing domestic banks, now wants to cover it all up and adjudicate by putting Serbia's state in the debt position. Many claims from banks that were shut down today could have been settled after the privatisations carried out. Banks would then settle their debts to foreign creditors and work in Serbia today. How much foreign banks took money as a commission from Serbian citizens during the conversion of the mark into the euro. Couldn't they have done it at home banks? Where are 4.5 billion Serbian couples from Cyprus? What is said about the huge payments for alleged expert services to Dinkic's fellow officers by many foreign organisations? What about those companies whose names Dinkic waved in front of reporters in 2003? It's not gonna happen. Just another hoax for the citizens of Serbia. When he has been mercilessly accounting with the domestic banking system, with insurance companies, what then to expect petty drinkers, an impoverishment that barely survives, peasants who have been imposed by astronomical amounts for compulsory retirement, social and health insurance. What do you expect from an invisible minister, since no one has seen him these days, who dared to impose on even monks and nuns the payment of health insurance. What is certain is the profits made by banks, which are now working in Serbia, slowly but certainly draining out of our country. Any investment in the Serbian economy will come from foreign creditors. Does this mean that we are in a semicolonial position today because of Mladjan Dinkic, left to wait for the mercy of foreign banks? Finally, I would like to pass on to Mr. Minister Mladjan Dinkic, a message from one peasant from the Paris green market, a farmer who is sick with the solution of the tax administration of 160,000 dinars for unmistakably mandatory pension, social and health insurance: "Tell that Dinkic that he has only left to install something in our pans and pots and to measure what we cook and how much we eat, so that everything we eat is too much to tax. "
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13743	Thank you, Mr. Ilic, I'm sorry I couldn't remember the name right away, we're Paramedics, so we can forgive each other. Here you go, Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we all remember in 2001-2002 when, by order of the West, at the orders of the European mentors, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, executed the largest four Serbian banks, under the pretext that the economy of the Republic of Serbia would be relieved, that it would be given the injection in this way, that it would be the initial chapel that would trigger production in the Republic of Serbia, which would bring Serbia's economy to the high branches, after the ten-year torture and destruction it was experiencing, and that would be what would bring us into the European Union. It is obvious after three or four years that the arguments presented by the finance minister present, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, were not correct, and the point is that this was done for a simple reason to put paws on the Serbian economy and that Europe and European mentors of these authorities are controlling the Serbian economy, which is now on the lowest branches in the last 10-15 years. Also, the privatisation of Serbian banks, which has been extremely current lately, does not take place that newly-roasted Democrats like to say "transparent", but is carried out under the grain, secretly, behind the back of Serbian citizens, in some semi-private circles, between godmothers, relatives, some unnatural alliances. The goal of destroying Serbian banks is extremely clear. It comes down to freeing the manoeuvre for the entry of European banks into the Republika Srpska market, to draw money from Serbian citizens, and then to the same citizens, who invested it, on credit, at extremely unfavourable interest rates. It is certainly one thing that unless Serbia preserves domestic banking, not only will we not soon become part of European integration, not only will we not be near the EU, but we will become a European province, without any chance of being part of European integration anytime soon, let alone becoming part of the EU. Due to the above, SRS MPs will not vote in favour of the proposed law. It is a similar situation, while at the finance minister Mladjan Dinkic, and with the insurance companies. There's a large number of insurance companies that have recently lost their license to work. The same is essential, to create a space for the entry of foreign insurance companies into the premises of the Republic of Serbia, that they be the ones to draw money from Serbian citizens into their home exposures. I think it is clear to all Serbian citizens that one phantom organisation, which is coded G17, has put its paws on everything in terms of finance and economy in the state of Serbia. The most recent experiences tell us that they've had their eye on the Serbians, that they've thrown their paws at the JAT. Everything they've touched, as far as finance is concerned, has dried up in their hand, and this is just one general test to engage in the spread of state-owned assets in large public enterprises, the type of Elektroprivreda, the type of Serbia, the type of Railway. That is why Serbia's citizens need to get up as soon as possible, as soon as possible to seek the new authorities' shift, not to say they take the poles in their hands, to piss off this gang that is now in power and that honest and honorable people finally come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13745	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milojub Albianic. Since this amendment, with a correction, has been accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 21 minutes 36 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs and three SDP MPs, by five minutes, on the basis of Article 89 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. For this point, Mr Bojan Kekić was authorized in front of the SPS and Zoran Krasic in front of the SRS parliamentary group; we received the notice orally. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have little changes to this law, that Lex specializing in organized crime. The first amendment refers to provisions on detention, and the other two to those provisions on penalties for discipline in the proceedings. The first change actually predicts erasing members who are tied to custody for a very simple reason. The General Provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act provide for the length of detention for the first-degree verdict, four years for the most serious crimes, and two for minor crimes. While there are such provisions in this special law, i.e. lex specialis, we could not apply the general provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and we would be in a position to keep the most severe criminal acts of detention shorter than under the Criminal Procedure Act and the minor acts. For these reasons, in order to achieve the unification of these laws, we have proposed to delete these provisions, so that the possibility of applying the general provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act remains. As for the other two changes, they concern fines, and there's a reason. If, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the penalties are significantly higher, so in those cases where minor crimes are minor, it is normal for procedural disciplines to have greater significance in the trial of those most serious crimes of organised crime. For these reasons, punishments have been raised to balance themselves with the already existing penalties under those provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. As for some earlier changes, I can inform you that the task force has made a draft of a full law, both this and the law on war crimes, and in the final phase is the making of a law on the criminal procedure itself, and all the dilemmas that exist, and in connection with the length of detention, will indeed be able to hold a valid debate in this assembly and decide whether such provisions should possibly exist, or whether to go to that variant, which once existed, that the court can determine every two months, to control the length of the detention period, and in accordance with European standards, that, in any case, it assesses what the reasonable duration of detention is. To be clear, European countries do not know such a limit. We used to run a little bit, so we introduced those restrictions, because we always wanted to be one step ahead. You've had situations where the Council of Europe has estimated that the time that enters the so-called time of reasonable detention has been exceeded, but there has been where it was estimated that, due to the complexity of the proceedings, even though the detention took a long time, it was a reasonable time. The last case was the trial of Giovanni Drussky, head of the Naples chamber, who spent nine years in custody, and they estimated that it was a reasonable time of detention, given the complexity of the work and the complexity of the proceedings itself. I'm saying, it's going to be the subject that we're going to discuss really when the whole law on criminal proceedings and the provisions of the entire law on state bodies and the fight against organised crime is debated. Thank you for your attention, I apologize for the urgent work I have to do to leave the congregation and hope that you will not take this as a disrespect to the congregation. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13747	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13748	Since this amendment to the law refers to compliance with what we call a general norm and it is a really small intervention in this law, it can be concluded that the law without any major problems can go beyond this congregation procedure. However, this is an opportunity to draw attention to the fact that last year in this assembly we increased those boundaries for determining detention and then we criticised that extension. Every time there's talk of organised crime and this law governing the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime, I think anyone who sits in this National Assembly has to come out and show dissatisfaction with the fact that they are. We have a special court, we have special procedures, we have special authorities, we have special jurisdiction and we have organized crime. What's wrong with that? We've got everything, and the results don't exist. The results do not exist for one simple reason that, before the court is brought to the table, the case file and evidence shall be handled in a sloppy manner, and shall refer to the pre-covering procedure, when certain evidence has been provided. We have a situation where the prosecutors are pretty quiet before they take the case into their hands, and the prosecutor manages the prosecution. Our special authorities, which are organized to fight organized crime, are under the impression that they are not even qualified to fight. We have a situation that in 2003 the Government, represented her in the Vladan Batic Assembly, almost until a freak form changed the definition of what organized crime is, so she reduced the minors - three people in one place. The rules need to be made, they need to be settled, but organized crime keeps changing its form, starting with the simplest form of conspiracy, further through organized criminal associations, etc. In the end, we also have this crime of the white collar, whose testimony we are to all of us sitting in the congregation. If someone suspects that something is going on and it's a crime and delivers documentation to the prosecutor, as far as the National Savings Bank is concerned, about shutting down banks, about some banks' operations, about sugar, about privatisation, and so we could list by tomorrow, and there's organized crime in all of this. That crime in these cases I've counted can't be the result of some coincidence. That they happened to meet Labus, Dinkic and someone else in one place, so as a result of that coincidence, it turned out to be a sugar affair. There is an entire team, with clearly divided functions, tasks, and we have in the framework of the SUP, of the MUP, of a special body, there is some keybinding that means nothing, and they have the opportunity to turn to the competent court to get consent and to track some persons, to listen, to provide evidence, to provide documentation, to prepare the case. In organised crime, too, the case is being prepared for years, and the court procedure ends within a relatively short period of time. There's no such situation here, here as soon as it's suspected, it's all in the paper, after a few days, but in the paper, it's been condemned, and in three days, a group of journalists wonders that he's not already in jail. The prosecutor may not have received the case yet, and in fact it is signalled to the perpetrators of these crimes, covered by a group and an organization, that they have been breached, that they are directed elsewhere, and that they are faster and better in some institution to find a man, explaining that there are some planetary, state and national interests and, of course, all of this is being covered up. It can probably go on for a while, but I'm telling you that in two or three years more in Serbia, no one will be able to tolerate this degree of organised crime. Everyone will get slaps from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it has become unsustainable. Go anywhere in Serbia, ask a question, a man who is fundamentally interested in certain things can tell you how many organized gangs there are, one exorcises debts, the other kidnaps, the third rackets, the fourth is related to the MUP. As far as possible, how can the state tolerate the head of a SUP or the president of a municipal court coming to the opening of a criminal's bar that came out of prison. You explain to me now, but the minister goes, how this court president, this SUP chief and that public prosecutor, whom they are supposed to hire, can fight organised crime, when the boss of that gang is a domestic friend with the holders of these judicial functions tasked with pursuing that face. It may be funny, but when you look at the effect of this work of state authorities, what are the results of organised crime groups, which have a criminal objective; they exist for crime, for profit gain. Organized crime meets some of Serbia's citizens' needs and therefore they find interest and can pass there. I simply get the impression that there are no people in the competent authorities who, starting from theoretical to practical training, know what organized crime is; and any state official can fool them and present that it is not a crime. Look at these banks, as they were founded, whose capital, look at their business, look at these survey boards we've had, each one is finished with some criminal charges. If he couldn't file a criminal report, then one of the members of the Bureau signed a criminal report and it's been standing for a year. As for electricity, I think it's seven or eight months, if not more. The state shut up, the prosecutor shut up, the court didn't get the case, no wonder. The MPs who started this experience to be asked by the citizens - well, you conducted some procedure, there was some polling committee, what are the results? It's as if MPs, members of the Committee of Auditors, could conduct criminal proceedings, arrest and put someone in jail. And the truth is that criminal charges have gone away and there is no return vote - whether criminal charges are dismissed, whether they are accepted and accessed to prosecution. If the prosecutor considers that there are no elements of the crime, let him inform the applicant of the criminal charges, and he will, as a subsidiary, take the criminal charge. There is, above all, the activities and co-operation of those in charge and paid to fight organized crime. We can even divide organized crime by goods, we can also focus on some services, whether it's done abroad, whether it's only with us, whether at some location, whether at a wider location, whether it's drugs, whether it's fuel, whether it's something else. It's simple, wherever there's a possibility of making any monopoly, there's got to be organized crime. Because organized crime and people who participate in such a conspiracy association know that there is an interest of citizens and in order to satisfy these interests, they end up part of their work through crime, and basically it is a large, uncontrollable, untaxed profit. I wouldn't be surprised if maybe in a few months, if this condition continues, we have another organized form of crime, where criminals carry public weapons and oppose the police if someone directs the police towards that group of people. We also have a situation to get a little bit of information out that an ex-cop is now in a group, so the head of security, then the major dealer, then the chief mediator. We have a situation where a good number of lawyers got involved. Not as defenders, but as counsellors. It has a specific name in its nomenclature. It's like something that used to exist in Italy, but it all changes its shape. It's a everyday phenomenon. It's prone to change. You know, when a law was published, the book couldn't be bought because it was bought by criminals. In time, they got to know what was waiting for them. We change the laws, we dress it up, we chase some standards, we follow some regulations, we join, we expect to be joined, we receive, we don't accept, we bring the situation to the heat. That and that date, it depends on everything. Whether there will be oxygen in Serbia or not. And organized crime works unhindered. It works like hell. Some efforts seem to be in the area of justice, changes in judges, the election of judges and the president of courts, but we do not essentially have an institute to resolve the holders of judicial functions. Probably a few dozen cases ahead of the Great personal council, but there's collegiation up to maximum. This is not on the Council's session, and there are no serious proposals to resolve. And if someone gets rid of it, get rid of it because it wasn't up-to-date or because it was out-of-date, so it didn't respond, which we had several times on the agenda last year when some prosecutors, i.e. the deputy prosecutors and some judges, were cleared. So no general action, no political decision. Here, you see for yourself, and this one case being conducted in front of this organized crime court as long as, for a year and a half, it's more and more like something other than a trial. So we can't fight organized crime, and that's just a matter of days when any of the citizens will be the victim of organized crime. If anyone thinks -- it's now protected, it's far from those people who do this job, be sure it's a danger to every Serbian citizen. If not because of other things, because of some brutality, and then probably because each of us can become the victim of a drug dealer group, which is able to infect our youth. Everything that's happened these years is not enough. Everything that's been going on these years has been unserious. If it were serious, then those provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure would be used, which allow the competent authorities to detect criminal offences, to shed light on criminal offences, to prepare appropriate documentation - whether it is just listening, whether it is tracking, recording, checking accounts, etc. It's all gone. When you consider this our actual state and when you look at it in that law, then you can really say, well, change that. But that doesn't solve our problem. The co-operation of state authorities, the sure choice of people who need to do this, both in terms of profession and morals, should be something that can guarantee us that we will have some success in fighting organised crime. Not like this. And another very important moment this government doesn't care about. No matter how true it is or not, but if there's noise in public, let's say the National Savingsman, and he rightly claims that there are elements of an organized criminal association, then the state must quickly find an answer. He has to. Well, you who are in power to consider, your President of the Anti-Corruption Council, I don't know what that woman's name is, went public with information that she's passed a large, huge file on the National Savings Bank, on that bank in Russia, on this smuggling, reselling, and who knows what's going on with fuel, electricity, and the government is silent. The silence of the authorities seems encouraging to other organized groups. The silence is a signal that there's something behind, that there are some people who can end it. Are these lawyers, are they some who are close to people in power who can silence persecution, stop persecution, order to stand in a drawer for some time. The government is always called for crime because there's no one else. And the government must be both effective, and responsible, and answer. Since the state is late, it is no wonder Milos Vasic writes a book. Well, it is, it seems tragic. A trafficker wrote a book about crime. But the state gave cause to someone to do it. We have experts reporting, each giving us some lectures, and it is known that organized crime has several aspects, criminalistic, police, judicial, sociological, and even pentological. There are experts in this country who know that. There are very beautiful books written about organised crime, based on scientific knowledge and experiences from other countries that have fought against organised crime. Well, it's just someone who needs to read and take action, work. To get a little bit of those regulations in line, if necessary. But we don't have a problem with regulations. We have a problem with the unhappiness and absence of a political decision to strike a decisive blow to all these organised groups. In all the pores they exist. And those who work with customs, and those who work with the tax administration, and those who work with banks. Check the banks, you'll see for yourself. So is it possible that our economy is on such low branches and so much of a paradise state for bank operations? So what makes them able to distinguish between active and passive interest rates and make a profit? Well, isn't that enough warning that something's going on on the money market? Well, look at the stock market? Look at the lawyer's office Ivanišević, or as they were called, which was first hit by a major stock store, I think it was an Apache brewery two years ago. You had a privatisation, or transfer of "Knjiza Miloš" action, so some brokerage houses are being punished. There are elements for everything and everything. To find that members of a group are more persons, that there is an organization, that there is a criminal objective, that there is division of business, that there is an act, all the elements of organised crime. But the state shuts up, the government shuts up, the ministers explain and leave, as if someone else was going to solve it. They won't even solve the papers, and if citizens are to fight organized crime in their own way, in a verse, in an unorganized manner, then we don't need this power. Evidence of the quality of some law is, first of all, practice and here is our biggest problem, which is practice zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13749	The word is from MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13750	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, the agenda item in today's assembly is the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime. First of all, it is about the non-compliance of the positive legal rules with, as the minister said, the lex specialis of the law, and these amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime are basically in line with the latest amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which extends the length of detention only in the general criminal proceedings. By erasing these specific provisions, and here amendments and additions apply only to four members of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the procedure of organised crime will be applied, which is justified, taking into account the gravity of these crimes, as well as the complexity of the criminal proceedings. The proposed amendments to this law in Article 3 also harmonize the amount of fines to exceed the time limit for artificiality, i.e. interpretation with fines provided for in the latest amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. These amendments to the Law increase the existing fines five times, thus equating with the applicable fines provided for under the Criminal Procedure Act. This seems to be because their increased amount is also appropriate in the process of part of organised crime, given that the imposition of those penalties is mandatory in this procedure. Therefore, this harmonisation refers to the length of the detention period and the amount of fines for non-compliance with discipline if it is an artificial or judicial interpreter. The adoption of this law, which I think is not at all controversial, is a alignment with the positive law and application in the practice of this law, meaning on the eighth day after the publication in the Official Messenger. The failure to pass this law would cause major problems in all the proceedings that are now in front of a special court.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13751	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Mr. Minister had some obligations and left the session, because I wanted something to say at the beginning of my presentation in his presence that he did. He is a witness in the last days of a fact that unfortunately is painful for the citizens, but defeating for such a congregational majority. In fact, it is now apparent that Serbian radicals were right when they claimed a few years ago, it turns out that this has done a lot of harm to the citizens of Serbia and deepened crime, whether Cedomir Jovanovic or Ljubisa Buha Chuma are the prime minister of the government. This organized crime, linked to the top of the state government, has spread from criminals to the Republic government and to all structures associated with the most responsible officials in our country. And all of this was responded by the co-Serbian Radical Party, its president, deputy president, MPs here in the Assembly, everywhere and in every place telling Serbian citizens that, apart from poverty and poverty, and a very difficult economic situation, which has been brought down by further rule, and especially by previous DOS furniture, the biggest problem is organised crime and corruption. If you go from city to city in Serbia and ask citizens what is the most resentful of the current owners and the previous ones, they will tell you, and some organization has been doing a study of the past days and months, in 78% of the answer - organized crime and corruption. From the lowest level, from units of local self-government, some have become real maherers through taking a commission of five, ten, 20, and 30%, through organised crime and people who have put the worst type of crime associated with the highest prosecutor's, or judicial functions. There's a lot of examples in Serbia, but I'm only going to give you a few. First of all, because Mr Krasic was right when he said there was no political will to curb organised crime. Not only is there no will, it's obvious incompetence. Who are the key people in the repression of organized crime in one government? The minister of justice, Mr Stojkovic, who has proposed that we amend this law through two members, and the police minister. Then citizens rightly wonder how far their safety goes, whether every Serbian citizen is safe, whether he can let his child go to school normally. Turns out not, because, based on the recent unsavourable events on Belgrade streets, there is no serious access to the problem when it comes to juvenile delinquency. So there's no serious analytical idea of what's going on. Is that what's going on? Are those the perpetrators, among the younger minors, the first crimes? Are they common? Are they recruited by certain criminal clans and when will the state deal with organized crime? The answer to that question is almost identical in all respondents. Those who say the biggest problem is organised crime and corruption, tell you the state will be accounted for when Serbian radicals are in power. Since it will be a great relief for the citizens of Serbia, and happiness for their safety and the future of Serbian children, in a few months, be assured that we will not wait and not have time for a day or hour to wait to deal with those who are the perpetrators of the greatest crimes. As for specific cases, you know that on September 19th of last year in many municipalities and cities in Serbia, Serbian citizens were taught what we had told them in the pre-election campaign, and determined to deal with criminals from locals across the province to the republican level, chose Serbian radicals for the presidents of municipalities and cities. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you about the case of Novi Sad and the Mayor of Novi Sad, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, vice-president of the Central Country Administration of the Serbian Radical Party. These days, the mayor of Novi Sad, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, is being led by an unprecedented media hack and haranga, on her and members of her family, her mother, her brother. Especially through media that do not favor the Serbian Radical Party, or what it does. As the elected mayor of Novi Sad, the second largest city in Serbia, she stepped into a rabbit's nest and began to deal with organised crime, went to the media, and so did Mr. Nikolic in the duel, where he completely and to his feet was beaten by Separatist Nenada Canka on state television, saying that one of the leading criminals in Novi Sad, i.e. in the AP Vojvodina, a certain Djerđ Ozer, the prosecutor, and that the famous character, because of what he did, and was well-founded, and particularly alleged by Mrs. Gojkovic, many crimes. It is quite clear that the gentleman used his function in the mandate to be rich, along with his separatist click, that through the renovation of the primary and secondary schools of the renovating works of these schools he displayed three or even five times more, meaning, fictitiously. The second in line in the organised crime chain, which was publicly called by Mrs Gojkovic, is today the Minister of Education in the Region government -- Zoltan Bunjik, who also known to the prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, also known to police authorities, and is particularly well-known for the fact that, associated with Ozer and Branislav Pomoriski, he has committed many crimes and abuses in his post. He is now, ladies and gentlemen, in the unfreed Parliament of the AP, and I believe that with consciousness and salvation, first of all, certain gentlemen from here will soon be freed from the District Assembly, headed by one of the leading resolutions – education. Why is this a problem now, not only a problem for the media to write about, and that certain media are laughing at it in an untasteful and unspeakable way, because of the fact that all these days, and this has been intensified in the past few days, threats to physical liquidation, threats to the murder of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, Mayor of Novi Sad. Why is that a problem? That's the problem because the prosecution isn't responding to all these obvious abuses and to the material evidence it's received. And on the other hand, there is general approval of the citizens of Novi Sad for everything Mrs. Gojkovic and the ruling set in Novi Sad is doing. Police, by the way, are not doing their job, but have left it to Maja Gojkovic herself to conduct an investigation into who is threatening and sending such anonymous messages, threats to the murder of her and members of her family, especially in the last few days. The saddest thing is, there's no investigation and there's no such thing as threats, and you know very well that, if there's a will and if someone wants to protect public officials, it's possible to do so. But there's no political will. Then it comes to the very top and the fact that Branislav Pomorijski, in his sheretic manner, makes statements, and broadcasts these statements all electronic and printed media, that it is a simple manipulation and marketing of the mayor of Novi Sad. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how you would react, and especially you who have excuses and who are in power, in a coalition with these appointed figures, the known judiciary, or the prosecution and the police, that this happens to you and that such threats come to your mailbox or to your mother's home address or your brother's. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there was no will, and that was also to be answered by Minister Stojkovic, that many major problems of organised crime were resolved, that anyone was publicly talking about them, and that they were not Serbian radicals. More than six months ago, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic filed criminal charges against Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, close friends -- otherwise, these two are the godmothers of the current Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic -- for robbing Serbian citizens. And he did so on the basis of the irrefutable facts and materials the Survey Committee, established in this assembly, to establish all the abuses committed by these criminals and how many hundreds of millions of euros have robbed Serbian citizens. Then let's go back two more years. You are now observing that Special Prosecutor Jovan Prijic is a special prosecutor, and I must remind you that he was the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor when the SRS personally handed him material on the famous Mercedes-benc affair, involving members of the former DOS furniture, and former head of the cabinet of the former prime minister, and then Deputy Minister of Interior, and so on, to many other individuals. You keep quiet about it or you can't stand up to it. Then, at the end of this presentation today, with another note to think about all this, and especially about Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's case, what is your conscience and what do you even think about when you're talking about organized crime? That's what I'm asking you to do today's power. Do you have courage and courage and do you have political will? She's gone. You have no courage or courage to tell criminals in the face that they are criminals, to start with the processes you must lead. You're afraid of them, you just know why, and we'll figure it out in the smallest detail. That's why it is most necessary for citizens to have the opportunity to deal with you so rudely and unable to deal with criminals, the worst possible criminals in this country, shifts. Which is going to happen to you in the next election, and then you might be thinking -- we should, we could have done this, there was no readiness, no someone gave us, someone threatened us with a finger. Radicals, and above all Tomislav Nikolic and all those who will be ready to go behind bars from day one to years of imprisonment, with the assistance of all those who have to do this job, put criminals, no one will be able to threaten us and no one will blackmail us, because the basic motive of our policy-making is for criminals to be where they belong, and that the honest world in this country can live from their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13753	The word has an MP, Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my address, I would like to express a protest that the Ministry's representative is not here. The SPO considers the proposed amendments to the Law on the prevention of organised crime to be cosmetic or non-essential. Namely, the obligation to fight organised crime has been taken over by signing and ratifying the Palermo Convention on the fight against organised crime. The Palermo Convention is the basis of the fight against mafia and organised crime in all UN member states. To make our so-called. The law on the fight against organised crime was in the spirit of world standards and experiences of all UN member states, in order to be, above all, fruitful, it is necessary to make one fundamental legislative amendment -- that a special prosecutor for organised crime is elected by the Serbian Parliament, in a four-year term, according to the same principles as the war crimes prosecutor. As long as the special prosecutor depends on the will of the Republic Public Prosecutor, who sets him on a very short term, there are no preconditions for an effective and successful fight against organised crime, especially in a country like ours. With all that, we need a so-called. A prosecutor's investigation, and it's all in criminal and procedural law. The Institute of Investigative Judges has long been overcome and abandoned in all countries, even in Bosnia. I believe you will take into account this SPO suggestion and will soon find a framework for their application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13755	The People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski has the word, and let the Messenger of Bora Kutić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13756	Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime is on the agenda, which was filed by the current Government of the Republic of Serbia. As Mr. Zoran Krasic said at the beginning of this exhibition, we currently have a special court in the state, and special jurisdiction, and special authorities, and we have all of that in large quantities, but crime, and it is organized, exists. The question arises, why do we even pay for these institutions, given that crime exists and they do not serve their purpose. The greatest danger to the state, to the citizens and to society is state crime. That crime, I have to explain it in a classic way, is when you're not chasing those before you, so they don't chase you, and that's why you steal as much as possible, and you're doing how the government of the Republic of Serbia now works. I will only mention some examples that have not been in the past and what organized crime of the state means. Underneath it could be the privatisation of "Knjiz Miloša", when three men sit in the house with the Deputy Prime Minister with a brandy, and probably mezes, and sell our water wells, our successful firm. And not to mention the past period of what happened to cementers, so I'm not talking about banks that have been destroyed, about insurance companies, and they're currently being destroyed. And to mention three-euro sugars, this is already popular, and the current very current situation of JAT destruction, in order to free some privates who finance, as we have heard in the past period, the organisation of G17 plus and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dinkic. I can also mention specific examples, since I come from Vrsac, I'll tell you what organized crime is. Organized crime is when you buy companies like Unity, Protein in Vrsac, and when you sell out within six months half of your assets, 50 percent of those companies' assets. It's a situation the prosecutor should react to, if he intends to deal with organized crime. We also have a situation, which I would now mention, in the past government. The regional government transfers eight million dinars to the Vrsac Health Center and Sremska Mitrovica, and no one knows where the money is, and no one is running criminal charges against those people, where that money went. The question is, why is it done, who is guilty and for whom is the money, in fact, washed, because it's just being dragged through the account. I have to mention the peer brewery, which in 2000 was in an unspeakable situation and had a debt of some million marks, and now we've come to have 13 million euros in debt. The DS and crisis headquarters, which at the time had been harassing Serbia, took over all the companies, took over all the institutions and led to the collapse of everything. No one has been prosecuted, despite the current government's promise in the pre-election campaign that the perpetrators who destroyed Serbia's assets would be prosecuted. And not to mention the current organised crime situation, where we can also lead an attack that is already ongoing for some time at the Serbia-Montenegro Army, the SPC and the Assembly. We have seen in the past what has been done to make fun of all the institutions of the systems that exist. We are also monitoring the latest days in the newspaper of the current government's capitalist Ilic, who does not mention the restructuring of NIS, Serbiashum, Serbia's leaders and everything else under the "platform of good privatisation and the rescue of these companies". These are companies that are currently making a problem for us and now the minister has decided to destroy them too. This is one announcement that awaits us in the next period. A measure that can prevent all that awaits us in the next period is only one and it is very restrictive: we need to change the government urgently, bring the SRS and bring those who have no debt to anyone who is not obliged, and that people in Serbia know. You cross the streets of any city and they know that only when the SRS comes in these situations will we be able to flush things out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13757	The People's Messenger Bora Kutić has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, which was filed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The changes themselves are not controversial. It is a dispute between the functioning of these bodies and organisations, which are established in accordance with the Law on Organized Crime. The passiveness of these organizations is really worrying. Today, there is no state in which there is no organised crime, to a greater or lesser extent. The problem with us here is that this crime has taken the great wave and that it is present with the highest authorities. Because if there is no crime in the highest authorities, the question arises, why are the authorities responsible for the prosecution of organised crime perpetrators not doing their part of the job. I believe that the reason for the inactivity and inactivity of these bodies and organizations has a foothold in the authorities of this state. I believe that by changing power, strengthening the SRS and coming to power in the Republic of Serbia, this problem will be resolved. We are witnessing that the President of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, in his presentations at the centre highlighted the fight against organised crime. I think the SRS, with its personnel and the potentials it has to deal with this evil that is present in our country. We have also seen that organized crime is present in all segments of our society; organized crime when it comes to privatisation, when it comes to the defence power of our military, when it comes to this parliament, organized crime in the privatisation of businesses, when it comes to the establishment of the National Savings Bank. So, really, wherever it's buried, we can run into traces of organized crime. That's one big problem. I hope that by coming to power, the SRS will be able to prevent organized crime in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13759	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by reminding you that, at a time when the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime was adopted in this House, then representatives of the authorities convinced us that there was no organised crime in Serbia, that the state of this unorganised crime was being settled. And after that came the Zemun clan, and the Surcin clan, and Maka's group, and, of course, what does not serve the honor of any state at a time when there was no organised crime, also happened to the murder of the prime minister. This law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of organised crime today is being amended by this law on amendments to that law, and I'm just looking here, this is the seventh amendment to this law. This speaks of the seriousness of the promoter and of this basic text, as well as of all these changes, and this also speaks of the seriousness of the conflict with this organised crime at all, that is, the fight against organised crime. The minister here told us today, we really only have four members of this bill, that it is small changes. It would be nice, and that's why I'm going to say that if the Serbian public knows that these small changes mean double detention, i.e. that these two-year detentions increase to four years in detention. It is a alignment with the Code of Criminal Procedure, but we Serbian radicals also at the time when the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed said what we think about it. Now I'm going to repeat and remind myself, this extension of detention from two to four years, so that certain people who have been detained will remain in custody, and then if the procedure is not completed even after four years, then we'll have amendments to the law to be another two years, and so on. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not a fight against organized crime. The fight against organised crime is effective and independent judges and judges. That's what Serbia is missing. You invented a special court, and a special prosecutor's office, and special judges, and judges with special salaries, which you didn't invent, but there's no results. Fighting organized crime didn't result, if it was any serious intention to go into that fight. Unfortunately, the role of the executive authority is inadmissible both during the DOS and today, when it comes to judges and prosecutors. The executive authority is conducting in certain proceedings the work of the courts, the work of the prosecutors. And every time we talk here about the choice of judges or prosecutors, we from the SRS are talking about concrete examples, about influence in the election of judges and prosecutors. And what Mr Krasic mentioned is the truth, that in Serbia we cannot expect a better situation in the judiciary until we have one normal, legal, public instrument of dispensing judges. We can bring as many judges as we want, and they can be both honest, honest and professional, as long as we have criminals in courts, thank God there's not much of them, but their impact is great, so as long as we have such judges and such prosecutors, we can't expect a normalisation of the situation in the judiciary, or a real fight with organised or individual crime. We cannot expect to improve the situation in the area of economic crime, when no one living in this country is able to resolve Belgrade's Prime Minister Goran Kljajevic. Everyone here knows, and everyone's saying it publicly, what kind of criminal it is. But what is worth, he has a sufficient number of those in the High Council who will vote for him to remain, that is, to be returned, after being resolved, and such a situation is not only in the area of economic courts, but unfortunately also in other courts, and in other prosecutors. When it comes to the influence of the prosecutor's office, then certainly we Serbian radicals can illustrate how this influence is really seen. You remember the polling committee, which established the impact of the energy mafia in Serbia, and it was indisputable for the Serbian public to see it, and it is clear to everyone what Hamovic and Lazarevic played in the framework of the energy mafia. Since it was not possible to reach an agreement within the survey board, Aleksandar Vukic, as chairman of the survey board, has filed criminal charges against these people. It has been six months, of course, since no one is responding, and even sadder is not the National Assembly, or National Assembly president. In six months, he did not put the report on the agenda of this parliament, so that we MPs would discuss it and draw appropriate conclusions. You remember the election campaign for Belgrade mayor, when Aleksandar Vukic also filed a criminal complaint against Nenad Bogdanovic for abuse in the performance of the president of the Belgrade City Council Executive Board, with such a stunt of evidence. Nothing happened. Remember, too, we have informed the public that the SRS has filed criminal charges against Davinic, Paskas and some other group that is destroying the military. There's no movement there either. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic in Novi Sad exposed the snake's crime nest, certain criminal reports went away, and instead of the public prosecutor's reaction, we have a criminal reaction from that organised crime, which is threatened by Maja Gojkovic, and of course she has to deal with it herself, because the MUP is not responding. Thank God, she has her SRS behind her, and we are taking care of it together, and don't worry, Maja Gojkovic is protected. We have an example of the municipality of Zemun and the business space of the municipality of Zemun. There's been a few criminal reports. She is characteristic of a certain Mr. Vukovic, who is a member of the DSS, who was head of the Department of Construction and Communal Affairs. You know what that gentleman did? He gave citizens, in order not to give them a solution to the destruction of the building without a building permit, his personal current account, and whoever was paying funds to his current account was safe, he did not expect, nor did he receive a solution to the destruction of the facility. From the DSS Municipal Committee, Gordana Pop-Lazic, president of the Zemun municipality, received a letter a few days ago, saying: "Dear Mrs Pop-Lazic, please inform us whether Mr Vukovic has returned the current account of the municipality of Zemun 470,000 dinars. "So that's how they themselves admitted that he took that money. The director of the business space of Zemunski, a certain Simonovic, is a member of the DS, he has eaten up the business space, I don't know how many millions, he's really done things that I don't know if anyone else has dared to do, he's issued a business space without the board of directors, and then he's giving out a 100 squares business space, so he's made some kind of record that those 100 squares aren't functional, so that 100 squares comes down to 20 squares, and then that someone pays only 20 squares. It's one of the pearls from his work cycle, but there were, indeed. The public is familiar with all the criminal charges, but of course the D.A. and the D.A. aren't responding. He's not even responding to a state prosecutor when it comes to "Prince Milos." I remind you that this prosecutor attended that night's phantom session of the Serbian government and no one has explained yet how he came to the government building, or the government's session room. I asked Vice President Labus as a member of the Committee of Auditors who had this topic on the agenda, who called the prosecutor. He said he didn't know if anyone invited him or if he came alone. However, he was present, he also heard in the government what we do not know in the public, he heard in the public statements of the president and members of the Securities Commission, he did nothing, all of it seems clear to them, because they have firm promises, while they listen, that they will remain where they are, and even that they will progress, which is a special specialty since 2000. The judge or prosecutor in advance knows that he can file a report that he goes to a directly higher court if he does a certain job. We had such a case with the Fourth Court judge, Zeljko Scepanovic. He, as promised, tried to move to the District Court, but thanks to the understanding of his colleagues, and apparently believed what I was saying about this man, which is true, did not pass this time. So, this law that we are talking about today, and which has four members, the SRS parliamentary group cannot support, above all, for all of these reasons that I have instructed, which are in the light of the laws that mean nothing to us, that neither the choice of judges means anything to us, that there is a group of organised criminals present in the Serbian government, and we talked about it for three days after this speaker. As long as that's the case, it's pointless to pass and change laws. And in particular, we were saying this when this basic law was passed, against some lex specialists, because we Serbian radicals think that the legal system should be arranged differently, system laws should be passed, laws applied in all the same way, laws applied to all, judges being tried by law, executive authorities not to interfere in the work of courts and the work of the prosecution. Only when it is achieved in Serbia will we be able to say that we are a legal state, that we have regulated system institutions, that we have a legal order. Of course, I know, it will already be after the next election, when Serbian radicals will be power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13761	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and then the National MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this moment, an SRS parliamentary group has received information from the police. Police found that Srdjan Bajic, a member of the League, sent the latest message, on the basis of which he found out who threatened Maji. That message reads: "You will not be there in a few days. "We Serbian radicals now require the police of the province, from the RS MUP, that this and all those for whom the data is urgently arrested, because this is not the work of one man, this is the work of an organized group whose head stands, though a little difficult, Nenad Canak; a little difficult because it is being changed in that party. Today we're talking about organized crime, although I don't see any differences, and yesterday we spoke, and on Thursday we were talking, before the weekend, about organized crime. As we talked about Dinkic, we talked about organized crime. As we talked about the destruction of domestic banks and the introduction of foreign banks here, we talked about organized crime. When we talked about Cyprus, and the Serbian money that was there and they were gone, they were now on the Virgin Islands, in other accounts and with the names of other account holders, we also talked about organised crime. It all starts from a tiny, tiny leg, which is said, because the kid goes to school, his parents drop him, goes into the supermarket, steals gum, steals candy, steals a candy bar, then when he grows up, he puts a sock on his head, grabs a kalashnikov in his hands and enters the National Bank. It's organized crime, so it's organized by not entering a man alone, but by four more, after that bulldozer revolution, with him. The data received from the Security Committee says it's a minor crime in decline. The people no longer have money, so no more pick-ups are paid, because they "fall" for 50 or 100 dinars that stick in their pocket, and big and organized crime is on the rise. I don't see much difference between the previous discussion, the previous debate and the debate on this point. Organized crime in privatisation. Remember how many companies are privatized, so some Collectors, or whatever these others are called, don't call themselves that, the system is the same, they've got a lot of commissions. For example, there is Cementara "Popovac", it is said, was written, so a million and some euros, and then became the largest owner of Belgrade's apartments. Organized Crime; The Committee discussed for a month and a half on who made it possible for the two biggest criminals in this part, Hamovic and Lazarevic, to buy electricity from us when we need them, to give us back electricity when we don't need them, to sell electricity to Serbia when it doesn't need to, that Serbia has to shut down hydropower plants so as not to produce electricity to buy Hamovic's electricity, and how much commission is there. It's organized crime. Organized crime in NIS, a state-owned company, a company that has to somehow secure the state, so to provide derivatives, picked up by some from the carriage and rope, not to say so. Because there are seven million, the director of marketing - I don't know what it's called, it doesn't matter, because they only differ by name and by number of socks, otherwise the system of work is the same – he had seven million in a year to spend on marketing. So 37 million in four months has been spent, by him and others on that team, two or three, and of course, two or three of their closest associates, in the white world. In total, 57 million dinars were spent last year. NIS is getting poorer, so it seems to me it's an intensity, so it's a poorer public enterprise, so buy it for small money. After all, you see what's going on in JAT, the JAT leads to a beggar stick, so that the Delta, who sold her bank, invested money in the Delta, or whatever it is they're going to call that plane transport company. And, look at the wonders, Velija Ilic got involved here, the magistrate of yesterday. He's mastered yesterday and he's already in the tender the day before yesterday, we have this law here in preparation, the magistrate gives the highway from Horgos to Požega, and the highway from Horgos to Belgrade, only a few shares of very short ones, is not finished, but the highway works. He'd played that part twice before, cut the tape, but then he wasn't a master, he was a technician, but it doesn't matter. Organised crime in pharmaceuticals; Galenika is systematically, one of the largest drug companies, leads to a beggar stick, by bringing one to a degree, saying that a member of G17 plus, of course, has a year and a half in G17 plus, he hasn't worked anywhere, and now he's the CEO, a young boy, speculative, when he destroys Galenika, is likely to transfer him to destroy something else, unless there are elections until then, and I hope that this year's election will be to prevent him from progressing further. What is the difference between organised crime after the arrival of DOS, where Chume was the main performer of works on paved roads in Serbia, and now, where Vela Ilic uses these same Kumet machines, rents and paves roads in Serbia? The difference is only that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia know very well, but I can see that some MPs do not know, what someone else is now receiving from the commission. He doesn't receive it until 2003. Now she's being taken by someone else. When elections are called, when the will of the people of the SRS takes over, many of those who are waving around Serbia today will be protected witnesses, as you have also introduced a name - a protected witness. I know Dinkic will be a protected witness and that he will then reveal all his associates, with whom he robbed and devastated Serbia. In the end, let me also say that law enforcement authorities have to solve all this about the Maka group, for Cedo Jovanovic, for a certain Milic, and given that in all means of public disinformation it is announced that Chadi is being threatened, I propose that the minister of justice and the minister of police should be well placed in a safe and secure place, and if they put him there, he will probably be a protected witness, so he will find out a lot. I would advise, in the end, gentlemen from the ruling coalition, not all of them, but one good part of the coalition, as Duško Radovic said: "Bull your children whenever you notice they look like you".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13763	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Miljko Četrovic, and let Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13764	Dear People's MPs, since I have often been limited to speaking either in principle or on the amendment, I now have the opportunity to talk a little more about supplementing this lex specialis, seventh or eighth additions, it doesn't matter. The law, with all these changes, will serve to strongly oppose the state's organised crime, with the UBPOK formed within the framework of the MUP, with allegedly these specialists, techniques, training, to take the first step in catching members of organised crime or organised crime. To then give the collected data to the Special Prosecutor's Office or the Prosecutor, who will continue the data collection operations, to give them to the Special Court and the Special Court to prove it, and to make a quick and effective decision on punishment, and that sentence should be a harsh penalty, because it is organised crime, the most serious crimes that exist in the modern world. To speak here about the mafia and in principle connect everything with the mafia is an insult to the mafia that exists in the more developed countries, where the rule of law is, because this mafia, although organized and organized, should outwit the most capable people representing the state, who are well organized and who have extremely good regulations and institutions to fight against such an organized mafia. Unfortunately, in the state of Serbia, we do not have, except for one small piece, which is mentioned here today, the crime of white collars, which belongs to one expert group, which probably taught this trade or that knowledge in developed Europe and the United States, so with that expertise it was sent or came here by order to pass on all its knowledge to us, including with regard to the crime of the white collar. They have done so successfully, because the organised crime, which is linked to government institutions, starts from local to state-level authorities, has managed to rob, dealing with oil and tobacco, sugar and electricity, hundreds of millions or even billions of euros. What about the robbery through the Development Fund? We were supposed to be having an affair with former Minister Rushett. There was nothing left behind to carry out the procedure. As MPs, we have no insight into how the Development Fund is available, for which the people of Serbia have a hard time raising funds and paying them for Serbia's budget. What happened in 2004? What happened in 2003? And we can only assume what happens in 2005. Unfortunately, members of this organized crime, so-called white collars, they figured out how to blur out the real state from day to day and rob both the state and the people, and through VAT, with everything he was introduced to, and even the milk, so on. raw milk, so now milk producers, after that mugging privatisation of dairy, are not in a position to hand over their milk, because they should be registered allegedly as agricultural producers, so that the milk they deliver is paid. This encrypted expert group has taken over by the division of authorities or ministries, by forming the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Ministry of Agriculture, and those funds from the Agricultural Fund and to encourage the development of agriculture, or the Agrarian budget, are now the prey of certain G17 cells by municipalities, because what is the situation on the ground they no longer have municipal committees, and through these cells, through allegedly training peasants, they deceive peasants -- how they will divide those funds for various programmes from that agricultural budget. It has already been mentioned here, along with all these previous points that are directly related to this point - organized crime, that and the traffic of actions or the Action Fund and privatisation, that I am not talking about the stock exchanges, who founded them, who controls them, that I am not talking about insurance companies, who controls them, all G17 has put it under the control of the governor of the NB, which is essentially control of this encrypted organization. As for privatisation, this unprecedented robbery that has taken place since the entry into force of the Privatisation Act has left hundreds of thousands of workers without a job but not only without a job but also without a naked existence, them and their families. What to say about privatisation and direct range through the so-called transparent privatisations, auctions, tenders, when you see the real or real state of the 1,500 privatised enterprises - how many of them are now working, how many workers are employed and how many of these 1,500 companies have continued their activity. I'll make an example out of the Vranjska Banja municipality. One of those auction participants bought eight companies, but it's a devastating fact that he doesn't know, and he boasts about it, which all the companies bought. The second defeating fact is that the Vranjska Banja municipal court could not charge him under the executive order spent electricity, according to the case of ElektroSerbija, because he had nothing to charge him, no funds, no income, no assets. Now, that's your privatisation. It's the right condition. It's just one example from the Vranjska spa. The former streetmen, who at some time became street dealers, then the jury dealers, and the sanctions profiteers by October 5th, after which they became profiteers, so-called profiteers. Your transitions, they got involved in the most profitable jobs after October 5th, and in part they've done it before, so all these funds illegally acquired throughout Serbia, especially in cities, used where the most profitable is now, that dirty capital, the dirty money to fertilize, as you experts say, use it to build the most profitable cities around Serbia. There is an example of the Kings and all the cities of Serbia. That so-called. The urban mafia, a directly-connected mafia with the leaders of DOS local authorities, and in part where there has been no change in government, it has continued after regular local elections, kidnapping what is most valuable everywhere in the world, city building land, the city's top centres. They destroy these city centres, creating business-building facilities, with minimum or no obligations to local self-government and state, and each building reaches between 500,000 and 2.5m euros, even threem euros. You are most likely witnesses here, although Belgrade is a big city and cannot be seen as it can be seen in the Kingdom, Kragujevac, Cačka and other cities across Serbia, to destroy the city's largest city centre, to create business and housing facilities, to the maximum extent to cover the street, without yard, without parking, without any access. Now the centers of these cities have been transformed into an area where it is no longer possible to live. If it wasn't tragic and the consequences of the long-term might be accepted, but these consequences remain for hundreds of years and generations behind us will have to suffer the fact that the urban mafia, in line with local government leaders, has kidnapped the citizens of the city, from the citizens of the municipality. Unfortunately, citizens living outside the city centre are unable to solve basic infrastructure and municipal problems, as this is all happening in the municipal budget and municipal public enterprises, cities and interventions in the city's largest area. What to say about the criminal policy or the proceedings being conducted in front of this special court, with everyone involved. It begins from the law to today no effect. Legal executive decisions can be counted on the fingers. These procedures are tossing dust into the eyes of Serbian citizens because they are allegedly public, transparent, so daily we have statements from these lawyers, minors and some spokesman of the prosecution, or even witnesses who appear, or protected witnesses, without seeing the end, when these trials will be completed, when they will be convicted and when convicted will be referred to long-standing prison sentences. If it's an example of this verdict, I won't appreciate the facts he had so-called. The special court, when it comes to this first-degree verdict for Zarubica, is sentenceing for such a difficult 12-year act, and allegedly the penalty to pay the budget of 10m euros and to take away all property, whether the fine is appropriate, with so many drugs, tons of drugs scattered in Belgrade and across Serbia. Is that an organized crime charge? Criminals from the law's entry into force, with all these changes, had in one period or the beginning of Sabela's action, when they were caught, some of them 12 or 13,000, nicknamed Buddha, Ratov, so that after that, throughout Serbia or Belgrade, through electronic and written media, the same or similar nicknames of mercy would be represented. I won't mention those nicknames now, but oftentimes the official representatives of the government when they make statements, when they're on the so-called. round tables, where they've been taking part lately, and they've mentioned them by nicknames. That's what it says about the direct contact of these criminals with current authority. Neither will this amendment of this law change anything, while those appointed by the State to oppose organised crime, start with the MUP, or the Office for the fight against organised crime, the Special Court, if at all necessary, do not make this trial, or the whole process swift and effective, and follow the appropriate sanctions, or penalties. Because only punishment if it is fast, efficient, and harsh can have its facts according to the perpetrator of this difficult act, which is, by the rule of multiple acts, prolonged criminal acts, and on the other hand, severe or severe sanctions or punishment can only influence others in a proportionate way, not to do or think that such acts do the same. This is the purpose of this whole procedure and the purpose of punishment, to achieve justice once again, for the sake of millions of Serbian citizens who have been disbursed, who are extremely hard to live and who do not have the means to live, but not to allow such funds to be spent in vain and through this alleged special procedure, started by the MUP, the prosecution and the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13765	The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13766	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, all or almost all of the countries in the world, have a problem with organised crime, and this problem is solved by being a state, or institution of government, in a constant fight against organised crime. Of course, we in the country need to solve the problem in this way, and we are already facing one problem, which we have realized that by adopting the law on the fight against organised crime, we will already meet the condition that we deal with organised crime. But a much more important condition, to deal with it, is the desire of ruling structures to deal with organised crime. The law itself cannot promise to solve these problems, but if there is a will of the authorities and if they engage in the fight against organised crime, then we can expect results. However, the problem with us is that organised crime bearers have a desire, as well as in other countries of the world, to connect with authorities, or political structures in the country. Unfortunately for us, in our case, they're mostly successful. The fight against organised crime is what you observe on the principle of your coalition capacities. If this government had a different composition, surely some people who do so would. businesses have already been declared bearers of organised crime, but of course they are not because they have political protection from some of the ruling structures. Otherwise, the law itself, i.e. the amendment proposal of this law, contains only three members, if not the fourth one, which speaks of when the law should enter into force, and mainly concerns the erasure of provisions that treat the length of detention, possible length of detention, and the increase in fines. This is stated in an explanation as a desire to bring this law in line with the Code of Criminal Procedure. In principle and in particular, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted here, we calculated that detention under that law could take as long as six and a half years, regardless of what the minister here said was a nine-year detention somewhere in Italy, that the European Community, or the Council of Europe, looked positively upon it. It's not good. If the prosecutor fails to obtain evidence against the defendant within a certain time, it is inappropriate for the defendant to remain in custody for six and a half years without any evidence. It is also inappropriate that in increasing fines, although we are persuaded by executive authorities, especially from the finance ministry, inflation is on an annual single-digit level, but what is the reason for the increase in fines by 500%. Which may be an explanation that penalties are increased five times, if inflation is one-digit, if when this law is passed, and that wasn't so long ago, whoever proposed this law and then claimed that the law was good, that these criminal provisions of the law were also good. How in such a short time did they survive and do so in such a huge amount? The problem of organised crime will not be solved by these changes either, because the law that treats it is long in force, but the shift in solving this problem does not exist. I'd say the biggest problems that create organised crime in the import-export lobby and privatisation. That is why there is a huge trade deficit, which is why spending this country's money, which is irrevocably going abroad, is without any possibility in the future of using more quality to launch our business activities. That's why the assets that are privatized are completely depreciated. Of course, in most cases privatisation takes place according to the already agreed scenario, regardless of public tendering or auctions. All countries in the world are approaching this problem in a way that shows that political structures in these countries have nothing to do with organised crime. You yourself saw that the previous government had people that it was protecting, which later turned out to have something to do with organized crime. When citizens expected that this government, and among other things because of it, would not want to join a coalition with the DS that was the carrier of activities in that government, to deal with certain people, it turned out that it would not be its commitment and that it continued with those people, who were the bearers of all these jobs, especially import-export and privatisations, which also caused a lot of indignation in public, the government did not show a desire to be accounted for until the end. On the contrary, there is a desire here to slowly connect certain operators of organised crime with authorities and to slowly continue to participate mainly in privatisations, that what is left of our companies, social property, to try to gradually translate into private hands, of course, without any rules or economic justification. I could give you a number of examples from my local community. There's a little talk about them, but I guarantee that each of you in your midst has a large number of examples, where this organized crime works, practically, on the principle of the state. Namely, there are certain plants dealing with various affairs, whether drugs, weapons, white slavery, human trafficking, etc. These plants have their own business units, as they say, in a variety of smaller places. Anyone who wishes to deal with organised crime will have to be completely clean and prove to the public that it has nothing to do with it in the past, nor had anything to do with organised crime carriers. Such power in the future will be able to deal with organised crime, because there will be no debtor among them or creditors. Only, and the citizens are aware, and I assume you're here in the O.R., too, that's the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13767	Mr. Zivkovic, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13768	Dear President, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 97(1) in the part where Mr. Cetrovic said in one part of his exposure that some cells in some municipalities formed groups to assist in obtaining some loans, concerned agricultural loans. I felt called at that time, because the G17 Plus Municipal Committee in Zajecar has held more than 50 tribunes in villages over the past few months, which have been visited remarkablely, where people, not members of G17 plus, but all, have come and asked about the way businesses are registered, about how to register land, about how to get credit. As bad as that idea was, you can tell by the municipal board, or whatever it's called, the SRS in Zajecar tried to imitate us, so he formed some peasant movement, I guess, a colleague of Zankov will correct me. However, as far as their action had echoes, it is evident that their stands were unvisited, that there was no interest, unlike ours, because finally the people and citizens of the Zaječar municipality recognized G17 as someone not only talking about their problems, but finally solving them with concrete measures and actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13769	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13770	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that colleagues from the G17 parliamentary group have been on the offensive for several days, because they have no valid argument on our claims all these days -- that Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and speaking of this law on the repression of organised crime, one of the people who is the leader of organised crime in our country, because he is precisely in extremely friendly relations and relationships... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, I warn you that you should specify a member. I'm telling you that a colleague from your parliamentary group, and you're a member of the G17 organization, spoke... (President: Member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Article 100. Rules of Procedure... in a negative context on the SRS parliamentary group, on a municipal committee. If someone wants to do it at any time in the future, and I suppose a colleague who spoke earlier, thinks about it, but it's going to be a mental noun, going out for a pay phone in some future conference, then it won't be possible as a member of the G17 organization. Travel probably, via a postcard probably, through direct congregation transfers probably. As far as the SRS board is concerned, not only do we not have those movements that he cited, which Mr. Stefan Zankov, Vice-President of the Assembly and the chairman of our District Committee, but through the operation of the SRS it is clear that farmers, as well as those in the city, as well as those left by Dinkic without a job, both this and the previous government, believe the most, and that percentage is over 40 only to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13771	That was according to the Rules of Procedure. Replication to Mr. Zivkovic's presentation, first Mr. Cevrovic, then Mr. Zankov. So, I'd like to inform you that we're working on the Rules of Procedure. He doesn't know any offensives or defensives, God forbid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13772	We from the SRS don't mind that you're supposed to be giving some lectures, but it's unfortunate that you're misusing funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, especially from the Agricultural Budget, and that you're trying to revive the G17 plus, because a dead donkey can't be revived.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13773	Mr. Cevrovic, I warn you, first you pleaded on cells, then fertilization, and now about donkeys. Please be kind, speak a replica of Mr. Zivkovic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13774	As for not being organized by cells, I rightly confirm that, because through municipal committees, through some teams, they would invite farmers to apply to them, so that they would allegedly give them advice and fill out certain forms, and meet the conditions for these agricultural loans. These funds are not G17 plus funds, these are the funds of all Serbian citizens, and are purposely defined for the agrarian budget. The Ministry of Agriculture exists, even alongside German headquarters, has its own facilities in the districts, and in some ways through the agrarian budgets of many local self-governments, which should have been conducted and distributed. Last fall, a peasant from the village of Cvetka came to me at the SRS Municipal Committee and showed me a mortgage that was placed on the entire property in the village of Cvetka, on the house and on all buildings in the household, and the country as a whole, for two cows allegedly given to him by some fictitious May 1st from the Royals, and this cooperative fictitious took credit from the Development Fund and from the Agricultural Budget. The question is how many fictitious cooperatives took credit on behalf of their mortgage, i.e. assets. Unfortunately, he went to complain, because one of the cows got sick, and eventually she didn't. He remained in debt for 2,800 euros for the two cows. This is your field action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13775	Mr. Zankov, here you go, replica, we'll ask the Minister of Agriculture for details tomorrow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13776	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand Mr. Zivkovic's exposure and what this has to do with the topic of agenda and organised crime; the stands, municipal committees, peasant movements and the like, registration of agricultural land. This is just talking about the great anxiety of MPs G17 plus, who no longer know what to do with themselves. They first experienced a knockout in Zajecar in local elections, despite the huge funds they have and have invested in the campaign, and then we beat them as SRS in the election for members of the local community council, where they voted directly on the names, because the elections were on the majority principle. So 50 stands in Zaječar G17 plus has not kept from its founding, let alone in the last few days. You're not simply capable. Your organization on the ground doesn't exist. By contrast, the SRS in Zajecar has an extraordinary organization, a visit to our stands, where we try to help the locals and the villagers in all ways, to connect them as far as their agricultural products are concerned, one village with another, is a different story than the one now on the agenda. Elections for members of the local community council have shown how much the price of SRS citizens in Zajecar, and how much G17 plus. I don't think we have anyone to compete with in the next period. What's the situation in G17 plus in Zajecar is the growing problems they have with their callicadres in all the institutions, where they could place them, from the Department of Agriculture, through the House of Health, where even those who are not practically in power beat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13777	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13778	I was misread by Mr. Cevrovic. It's not about any gatherings, Mr. Four, it's called education, if you haven't heard it before. As far as we haven't held 50 stands, you can ask the citizens of the village and the municipality of Zajcar how long we've held out. Here's an answer to a specific question, Mr. Four, why are we doing this? We're doing it because the municipal government doesn't do it, the one that has to do it, because the SRS usually co-habitates with someone who attacked by yesterday, such as, say, the Liberal Union, or whatever they call themselves, who has the president of the municipality. So the answer is to Mr. Zankov, that's why we're doing it, not the municipal government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-29-0.u13779	The Liberal Alliance as a party no longer exists, was abolished three days ago and acted on Montenegro's territory. I guess it's some kind of paraorganization, maybe the Liberals of Serbia or something. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in general. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue our work by searching the 6th item of the agenda. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 140 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ivica Dačić, Zarko Obradovic, Leila Ruždic-Trifunović and Milan Markovic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE SEMEN LAW (principles) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milorad Krstin, Zoran Mašić, Zoran Mićović, Vitomir Plužarević, Lazar Cavic, Branko Rankovic, Milos Dišić, Prvoslav Savic, Stojan Cvetković, Momir Marković, Srdjo Komazec, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Miljko Cetrović, Mita Avramov, Sulejman Spaho, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Gajic, Vojislav Milajić, Ivan Radić and Dragoljub Anasovski. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs and three SDP MPs, after five minutes, on the basis of Article 89 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives of the MPs' groups are authorised for this point: in front of the SRS parliamentary group – Zoran Masic, in front of the DSS – Arsen Kurjački, in front of DS – Boris Tadic – Zoran Micovic, in front of G17 plus Vladislav Kronic, in front of the SPS – Brance Stojanović. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
