ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16492	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic, Milovan Markovic, Esad Djudjevic and Gordana Comic. We move to a joint principle search of the 9-16th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE SURVEILLANCE AND AGENCY, AGENCY, ASSESSMENTS AND LISSATION OF THE BANKS, BANKS, AGENCY FOR ISSUES, GARANCE FOND AND FINANCIAL LIZING The river has a National MP, Nikola Todorovic, and let the National MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, if there are any of you - I don't see Mr. Minister, and there was an opportunity to address him because of his draft laws, he's a government reporter, and he usually doesn't have one at a time when he needs to hear some new things. When he wants to grab additional power, Minister Dinkic reaches out for amendments and additions to the law and thinks he will solve all problems. Yes, it may be practical, but the greater power and the greater obligation involve greater responsibility. Minister Dinkic practically came into conflict with everyone in this country, starting with the military summit, pensioners, education, health care, media, perhaps not everyone, banks, insurance companies – everything in everything, when taken, is not bad. He has power, he enjoys it, and everyone else has a lot of problems with it. I'd like to try to ask the Ministry gentlemen how they're negotiating in the government. On one case of copper mines in Majdanpek, I will remind you that this is a social enterprise where the state is the boss and the owner, comes one morning the Tax Administration from Bora and lists the basic assets –terrestrial vehicles, passenger vehicles, buses for the transport of workers, signs a bidding and tries to sell to collect taxes. In its company, the State has seized the underlying assets and directly shuts down the company and makes it impossible for the company to operate. The accident was also for the Tax Administration, perhaps happiness for businesses and workers, that the value of these basic assets, which were planned for sale, was so small – about ten million dinars, and obligations based on taxes – hundreds of millions and there were no buyers, so it was not possible to sell those funds. In practice, it remained possible for workers to be brought to the workplace (the truck is driven by a worker to the floor pager) to bring in the necessary tools and necessary equipment to maintain these basic assets. I don't understand how government ministers are agreed if they don't provide crafts, tax administrations prey and violently charge taxes if they work so unsynchronisedly in the government. Perhaps the minister, translated into the language of musicians, also has the loudest instrument in which he blows, making a lot of ears and misunderstandings with others in the same government. It should change the name of the band or change the music, so that the people can survive and realize, at this difficult time when nothing works, when everyone is out of work and very hard to live – that it is practically impossible to start any production process in order to revive or create some possibility of new employment, and an increasing number of people are out of work and living conditions are making it difficult. I understand the desire for power and the attempt to create order in this country. The government has managed to create order, or order, only at gas stations, or perhaps on the National Employment Service records, where the highest ranks are. Although there is also an attempt by the Government, or the Minister of Resort, to reduce the ranks in front of the National Employment Service in such a way that, if someone is late one day to apply, they do not verify the health book, they do not register the spell provided for in the application - they delete it from the records and thus are physically reducing the number of unemployed people on the National Employment Service's record, and it is getting bigger and bigger. When it comes to these bill proposals, I'd like people in the government, as one orchestra in which not everyone can play their own music or every one with their own tone, without being synchronised, to try to make a deal. These days I learned that there was an attempt by the government to do something about the privatisation problem of RTB Bor. All government ministers are involved, but the consultations are long, the privatisation process is very slow. A company such as RTB Bor is difficult to privatise, there is nothing to privatise, bearing in mind the failed equipment, old technology, an ore bed that cannot be privatised, other than giving concessions, as well as a very slow and irresponsible work of the Privatisation Agency. If you don't do something faster and better, the end I come from will be in a very difficult situation to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16494	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16495	Now, this miracle from the new Rules of Procedure does not help the ministers to be provided – there is no minister, and it would be good to hear arguments about these seven draft laws, which should prove corruption, theft, and rich in illiteracy. Let's get in line. It is known that the group G17 plus has a pathological desire to control all financial flows. But that wasn't enough, so it has to take another step further or, to be more precise, into an even bigger ambition. What perhaps of these seven laws would be the matter of two laws, because I don't know why the Law on the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, so it's divided into three laws, could be regulated by one law. When I start with some arguments and comments, you'll see why it was necessary to divide all of this and cover up the tracks. Let's start with the first law, which is called the deposit insurance bill. There's nothing revolutionary about it. Until now, however, I would draw your attention to Article 16(1) where it is written that the bank in bankruptcy is obliged to provide the Agency with information on depositors and their deposits, as instructed, within 15 days of the date of the adoption of the decision of the competent trade court on the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings against the bank. This article says which is the court responsible, that it is a trade court and you can see that the term is being used – solutions for opening bankruptcy proceedings. Why is this term used when already in the next law, which is based on this law and seems to be a whole, which is the proposal for a law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, in Article 6, says that the court (not said to be a trade court) is obliged to adopt a decision on the opening of a bankruptcy procedure no later than the first day of the adoption of this decision. So the court needs to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, and here you say it opens up bankruptcy proceedings. I guess that's the same thing. Let the minister know if this is about high speed, whether it's about big mistakes. It's just that this doesn't communicate with that general bankruptcy law that was passed last year. This wouldn't just be a mistake. Since a bankruptcy procedure is opened, the agency, being a bankruptcy manager, should set up a bank that will settle bank liabilities in bankruptcy towards citizens. Article 16 contains the National Savings Office. It will be a bank to which the Deposit Insurance Agency will entrust operations in the bankruptcy and settlement of bank liabilities in bankruptcy according to the savings. So we move on with the financial monopoly of those chosen by Mladjan Dinkic and financed by Mladjan Dinkic. Other provisions of this law may be brought to the attention of the existing provisions of the Law on the Agency for the Rehabilitation, Banks Banks and Liquidation. Deposit insurance started with us as early as 1993 – the amendments to the law and then changed the law repeatedly with a focus on recovery rather than bankruptcy. Later, bankruptcy started and a specific double relationship was made between the competent court and the agency that took over as the bankruptcy manager. But we don't see from all these laws whether it stops working on an existing federal agency. Since I've caught a little piece of the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation and insurance companies, I have to remind you that the reasons for the application of this law are foreseen. The first case is bankruptcy, the second case is liquidation. Liquidation can be forced and voluntary. Forced, as a rule, goes when a work permit is withdrawn, and bankruptcy has two conditions, even though a work permit is withdrawn. These are the conditions of points 10 and 11; practically no liquidity is shown for more than 15 days and there is a problem with the total potential of the bank. What special attention deserves are provisions from Articles 4 to 6. The National Bank of Serbia is making a decision on meeting the conditions for launching a bankruptcy procedure. This means – when the control, audit and supervisory part of the National Bank of Serbia determines certain failures, a solution is made to withdraw the work permit and a solution to meet the conditions for the launch of the bankruptcy procedure. Against that solution, it is possible to conduct an administrative dispute, but what you wrote here – that the administrative dispute before the Serbian Supreme Court must end within 60 days – forget it. What if the dispute doesn't end within 60 days? You don't have any sanctions or measures to force the Supreme Court to make a decision within 60 days, on a lawsuit to initiate a administrative dispute against this solution, which you said was final, but you also said it was executive. That solution is delivered to a trade court and, as you said here, a solution is made to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings. There is a possibility that proceedings can be conducted against this solution, but within a completely different court. However, you now want to amnesty all these stupid governors from December 2000 to today, who have exercised force over courts. They don't recognize the decisions of the courts. As an example of what you wrote in the explanation of one of these laws in this set, where you show that anger, where the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and all those who have an obligation to close banks - show an internal urge why something makes them change the laws. I will read this from the explanation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The reasons for the adoption of the law, the sentence begins as follows: "The management of the insurance companies, which according to the provisions of the Insurance Act by the National Bank of Serbia, has established a number of illegalities and irregularities in the business of insurance companies, which have pointed to the need to amend and supplement the provisions of the Insurance Act." Is writing this at the Ministry normal? Do you have any doctors there? You're admitting to us here that you've been controlling the business of insurance companies, establishing illegalities and irregularities, and that's why the law is changing. There's probably some kind of mental argument control, because now it turns out that we're harmonising with illegal behavior. Is that the purpose of this government? If this government's goal is to amnesty all illegal behaviors, then let's change the laws according to the practical state for certain individuals. Then I ask the question, if the extension of this sentence is excluded, that because of the illegality of business, the licenses of certain insurance companies have been withdrawn, why are they not taken away from all insurance companies that have been illegally doing business? No, for these other illegal transactions, the law is amended to make it legal. What logic is that? People who have such logic must not be in power. They admit in this way that they don't care about a rule or anything at all. No, but we need to keep the insurance company that's co-produced, and you know what co-production is like when it comes to power. There's a lot of illogicality here, a lot of problems. Let's go first of all in some order, if it's possible to go in some order when seven points are on the agenda. So the merger of these first two laws says the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is above all laws and above all bodies. It is not bound by a court decision, it can repeat its decision to withdraw the permit and a solution to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings. He can spin it independently of the administrative dispute, and the trade court goes its own way, he opens bankruptcy proceedings. Who's doing business as a bankruptcy manager? Agency. If we get to that agency law in this pile of data now, see how the Ministers prepared them to be there. Here, the Deposit Insurance Agency, you see Article 16 – how the National Assembly chooses him here for a function, he is immediately a member of the Management Board of the Agency, and members of the Management Board, according to the function they perform, are: Minister of Finance Affairs (of course to legalise what has been a practice so far), Minister of Business Affairs and Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. However, if it is the deposit insurance agency, the agency that does this job and the business of the bankruptcy manager over banks and insurance companies, then how could you enter this chapter - doing business for the Republic of Serbia? There's this string, why on the board of directors there's these officials. When you look at what it says in Article 7 of this bill, the agency is an agent of the government and manages certain affairs on its behalf, especially when it comes to selling state capital in banks and insurance companies. I think that's exactly what it stands for in Article 7 and it's said, "The agency participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, by monitoring the business of these banks and the work of their organs and by doing other jobs." That is why it was necessary for these ministers to be on the board of directors, but this is how the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia is trampled. This is how the government devalues itself. It has virtually no function when it comes to the decision on the capital of the state located in banks and insurance companies. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations – simply, two new positions, i.e. two new points, in Article 57j, points 10) and 11 have been forced into force: if the bank is inequitable for more than 15 days and if the bank's obligations are greater than its assets. These are the reasons when the bank's license is compulsory, but because of the first law I have commented, that is the reason for the bankruptcy proceedings to be launched. The following points say that the National Bank shall, by means of its acts, prescribe all those criteria, criteria, etc., on the basis of which it shall determine whether the conditions of point 1) to point 11 have been met. This means – complete arbitraryness. In order to avoid such arbitraryness when performing a control function by the central bank, there was a practice earlier to carry out a specific division of jurisdiction, that the government prescribes criteria, or that the law lays down criteria that will oblige the National Bank in this area where it fulfils and enforces the law, not that it writes its own regulations, because then we have an example of self-will. It's like someone put a sock on your head instead of a 57th and said, "I'll come in when I want to go in." Because it's all in his hands, and the criteria and criteria, and the people who need to prepare it, and the shooting bank is over. Unfortunately, since 2001, there have been few measures in all NBS control functions, i.e. orders, command letters with the measures they aim to consolidate the bank and bring their business into line with the law, to come out of the dubiosis, etc. No, cut, open space for new monopolies and create new monopolies. In this law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, I have shown an irregularity in the very reason. But I need to remind you that some solutions are totally deviating from our legal-political system. This is not our constitution to assume. One of these things is, for example, a change in Article 197. It's a new attitude where there's a pathological desire to ask for all consent from the NBS. Both for the board of directors and for board members and for future board members, when the insurance company is set up, as well as for some changes, and I think it's a major interference that is not allowed. In that sense, I would say, what you are proposing in Article 17 of the amendment and addition of this law – where St. 1st and 2nd are replaced by a new position 1, which says that the National Bank of Serbia prescribes restrictions on certain forms of deposit and investment under Article 114 of this Law – exceeds the law of the NBS that it can influence because it goes beyond the insurance business. Then says Article 31 – paragraph 3, which reads: "When deciding to give consent under Article 2 of this member of the NBS comes from the professional competence of auditors... ". The Audit Act prescribes who all can be an auditor, etc. It is not enough for this new furniture in power, but when it comes to insurance, it will now appreciate whether the auditor is the relevant auditor. Then throw the Audit Act, we don't need it, let the NBS regulate everything by sublaw. Since you said we have to do this faster, you say, by amending the Guarantee Fund Act, and you've given some explanation here and the question is how much water it suffers, but I have to tell you that this is how you create a monopoly. In this way you tell us openly – there are five banks who are willing to co-operate with the Guarantee Fund. But there is some legal restriction. We extend that legal restriction twice as much. For who? Because of these five banks. This is not allowed, please, to return to the stenogram when the Guarantee Fund Act was passed, which we have drawn your attention to, and to this provision concerning the possibility of placements and the total fund for which it can issue guarantees and super-guarantee and to burdens that exceed the fund's capital. Then you said -- no, that's quite enough, and now you go twice as much, but in a different way. It's the creation of a new monopoly again. As for the Financial Lising Act, I expected the law to change, but to define financial leases. What we have in the Financial Lising Act is not a classic financial lease. This is a lease that doesn't exist under that name, but it's regulated by our Law on Bond Relations. Unfortunately, you didn't go in that sense to change this law, but you went to the system to grab as much authority as possible when it comes to financial lysing donors. You ask for everything and you give everyone consent, etc. You see, he says the NBS prescribes criteria for the assessment of business reputation. Find me a wealth of synonyms that you can frustrate your original desire; your original desire is to keep everything under control, but not because of financial flows, but because of your position to influence their business. Knowing how fast you're a turbo, everyone has to respect you and fulfill every stupid thing you ask them to do. The only sanction that follows is closing. It's an experience after what you've done. We talked about it being the only activity two years ago when this law was passed. At the time, your Pitic brought here a professor, Oric, and when he saw and heard what Pitic had set him up here, he crossed over and ran. He says the leaser is obliged to obtain the NBS' consent to a decision to appoint members of the board. Why does this need NBS? For what? Then Article 13e – NBS prescribes minimum conditions on which the leaser concludes the lease contracts within the meaning of this law, as well as the way in which the lease payment is shown. Why are we sitting around making laws? Write down one member: The National Bank of Serbia is authorized to do whatever it wants in this area, to do whatever it wants under this law. You have a majority, it will be voted, and don't harass us. Here you have tried to divide it into seven laws, caught from all aspects of the insidiousness behind this. Furthermore, you have what is strange: the proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. Is that the agency? Yes, it is. The agency has a congregation, there is a board of directors, but the assembly is not being chased by ministers, they do not want to enter the congregation. They don't care about that. But the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency – it is a political influence. Just smile, but just so you know, who laughs last - the cutest laugh. I warn you, by voting for these laws, you tell Mladjan Dinkic, Labus and this expert group – do whatever you want, Serbia is on the table. Citizens of Serbia, understand what that means. You who deal with insurance know very well; you who do banking work, and how you know; you in the Supreme Court, remember, after these laws of your judgment, your solutions do not exist – officially do not exist, because so did the congregation majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16496	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, whether they want the words of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used the right set out in Article 89. Rules of Procedure? He doesn't want to. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft deposit insurance law, the draft law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, the draft law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, the Proposal for a law on the Insurance and Financing of Exporting Agency of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law amending the Guarantee Fund Act, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act (point 9. - The 16th agenda). We move on to a joint principle search of 17 – 28th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON PUBLIC DESCRIPTION, CONTRACTIONS ( FOR TREATMENTS IN ELECTROPREVREDE, REQUIREMENTS TO THE EIB, SANATION OF TRAINS, EUROPEAN TRADES IN SCG, AIR DESCRIPTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE OF SUBOTICE) AND OBLIGATIONS BY NFA AND TDFA A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the law on the agenda, under points 17 to 28, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, as set out in Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction – New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group – four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I open a joint principled search on the following points: - Proposal for a Law on Public Debt, - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred of Serbia" in the German financial organisation KFW, - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to the European Investment Bank for the financing of the railway project, - Proposal for a law on the granting of the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to the law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia under the law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia (the Republic of Serbia). - 28.). Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16497	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have the Public Debt Act on the agenda. As you know, our country has been in debt for decades, and there has never been a law on public debt, nor have there been criteria to give authority to government authorities for borrowing. This is a law that, in fact, systematically introduces order in the area of public debt. There are five grounds for forming a public debt. First, it is the debt of the Republic of Serbia itself, which is created by a contract concluded by the Republic. Secondly, public debt also arises on the basis of the issue of securities issued by the Treasury of Finance to raise free money on the market to finance the deficit. Also, public debt includes all reprogrammed liabilities based on previous-term borrowing contracts. The guarantees are also a public debt, since if a public company in charge, and the state to guarantee, fails to pay off the obligation, it falls under the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Finally, the debt of local authorities, guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, also enters the public debt. That's five basics for public debt. At the moment, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 9.5 billion euros. It's the condition of May 31st, 2005. The comparisons work -31. The total public debt of the Republic of Serbia amounted to 14.2 billion euros in December 2000. So, in the meantime, it's significantly reduced. I'm sorry, I made a mistake, at this point it's 9.8 billion euros, not 9.5. So, on 31 May 2005, it was 9.8 billion euros and it was 14.2 billion euros on 31 December 2000. This means that over the five years, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has been reduced by 4.3 billion euros. Relatively, compared to the social gross product, at the end of 2000 public debt participated with 170% in the social gross product, today it is 56%. So, in this respect Serbia satisfies so-called "Mastricht criteria" for entering the European Monetary Union, as the border for admission to the European Monetary Union, based on this criterion, is 60% public debt participation in the social gross product. Serbia currently has 56%. As for the structure of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, of 9.8 billion euros, four billion euros is domestic public debt. It is mostly a debt based on the issue of bonds for the settlement of old foreign currency savings. Also, there is a loan for Serbia's economic rebirth. The rest are dinar obligations based on the issue of Treasury Treasury bonds. The remaining 5.8 billion euros is external public debt. It is often heard in our public that the external public debt is far greater than the figure I present to you. When it comes to public debt, it must be borne in mind that these are only those obligations that the state guarantees and are reconciled from the budget. This figure does not include the debts of enterprises that the state does not guarantee, these are private debts, as well as citizens' debts towards banks, so the total of the country's external public debt is only 5.8 billion euros, as it is often bid in public and with figures of over 10 billion. However, this remains indeed the debts of private companies to banks and the state does not guarantee it, nor will it ever pay for it. The state will pay off and has an obligation to pay off, to serve this external debt of 5.8 billion euros. Given that we expect Wednesday, tomorrow, the IMF director's positive decision and the approval of the fifth revision of our arrangement, where we will be one step closer to the completion of the three-year arrangement with the IMF, because we have only six audits left in November of the month, we expect to receive a write-off of about $700m in debt to the Paris Club. So by the end of this year, the total public debt will be reduced to about 50% of the social gross product, when we get this additional write-off from the Paris Club. In this way, Serbia belongs to the middle-indebted countries. Of course, it would be better if the level of public debt was lower, but the situation is far better than it was five years ago. First of all, thanks to the high write-off we received from the Paris Club – 66%. So far 51% has been effectively realised, and now we need this additional 15% of the London Club – there we get a 62% write-off. Also, in this set of laws where the Assembly is to declare its counter-guarantee on the basis of various projects for infrastructure development in Serbia, I must say that today we will discuss the counter-guarantees that were mainly created on the basis of contracts concluded between 2001 and 2004. The projects concluded in 2004 and 2005 have only three counter-guarantees with a total value of 163m euros; 129m euros of counter-guarantee waste from 2004 and around 33.5m euros on the 2005 counter-guarantees, which means that our government reduced the credit from abroad, and drastically, given that in the meantime we managed to cut the budget deficit of 45 billion from 2003, and this year for the first time we have a surplus. So there's no need to be in charge. We started out as the Finance Ministry to pay back our earlier debt based on the borrowing of the Treasury bonds. We also managed to bring interest rates to the Treasury bonds on the market. The current interest rate on the three-month Treasury bonds is 15.5%, which is a record low, I am talking about the annual interest rate compared to the previous period. I mean, at the beginning of this year, that interest rate was 22%. So it's down almost 7% in the last five months, which is due to the state's end of debt, because there's no need to finance the deficit. The liquidity of the budget is better than it was before, and therefore we do not satisfy the overall market demand, because we do not need that money – we do not have the deficit to finance and this leads to a drop in interest rates for these most qualitative government vault bonds. As far as the public debt of the Republic of Serbia itself is concerned, it is realistically sustainable and all those who say that Serbia is threatened by the debt crisis do not actually read objective figures. We were threatened by a debt crisis that we didn't get a write-off from the Paris Club and the London Club. That write-off, of course, was negotiated, did not fall from the sky. On the other hand, we would be threatened by a debt crisis if the state were now in debt and we had a major deficit in public finances. We don't have a deficit -- we have a surplus, we don't owe too much. On the contrary, by passing this law, we will set exactly the limits for borrowing in both the central government and local self-government and public enterprises. This way you will carefully monitor the borrowing. A special public debt administration will also be established within the finance ministry, in order to create excessive debt in the future, which happened to the former SFRY during the 1970s and 1980s. We are, in fact, reprogramming and writing off the very old debts of the former Yugoslavia, which our generation is now paying off. We do not have the right to borrow new generations, so it is very important that this assembly adopt the public debt law, which will introduce a restriction on borrowing at all levels. What brings this new law? The law prescribes conditions, the way and procedure of borrowing the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, territorial autonomy units and the organisation of compulsory social security. It also envisions the establishment of a Public Debt Administration within the finance ministry to better manage the debt of the Republic of Serbia. Such administrations exist in all the finance ministries in the world. Unfortunately, our Ministry of Finance did not have such a specialized unit. Now we're going to establish it with this law. Also, borrowing gives greater flexibility to local self-government. So far, there has been no clear rule for local self-government to be in debt. It has been a law on the budget system so far, which is not an appropriate law to regulate the borrowing of local self-government. Here we will now have in one law rules for both local self-government and the central government. Also, this law allows full control of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's debt borrowing, as there is also a obligation to submit regular reports to the Assembly. So not only the government, but also the Serbian Parliament. As regards basic provisions, borrowing can be made in the country and abroad, in foreign and domestic currency, except in the case of short-term securities issued out of value, since short-term securities of value can be broadcast exclusively in domestic currency. Short-term records are of up to one year's worth of paper. Long-term records, over a year, can also be broadcast in foreign currency. Four are the basis for borrowing. First, debt can be made to finance current liquidity deficits. In that case, the debt must be paid by 31 December at the latest and the total amount of the debt must not exceed 5% of the total revenue achieved in the previous year. Also, borrowing can be done to finance the budget deficit, when the debt can be transferred, in accordance with practice in other countries, and in the coming financial years. However, the total amount of the debt must not exceed the amount determined by law governing the budget of the Republic. It can also be done to finance the budget deficit, issue the Treasury bonds and other securities of value. Also, borrowing can be done to refinance the outstanding debt, in order to pay for them and on the basis of exorcised guarantees, as well as to finance investment projects, in which case the project's manual must be longer than one year. As for broadcasting securities of value, it's exactly how broadcasting is done, who can broadcast them and who can buy them. What's new in this law is the possibility of local self-government broadcasting securities of value. As far as borrowing local authorities are concerned, I think that's what the MPs might be most interested in. The borrowing of local authorities is approved by the competent authority of local self-government, according to the finance ministry, which is required to issue an opinion within 15 days of the submission. So, the finance ministry is obliged not to wait, but within 15 days, it has to give an opinion. As for the borrowing of local self-government, they can be borrowed both in the country and abroad, in domestic or foreign currency. The foreign currency limit applies only to projects over a year. To finance the need for liquid liquidity, the amount of borrowing may be up to 3% of the total revenues of the previous fiscal year and the debt must be paid off by the end of the current fiscal year. As regards long-term borrowing, this borrowing is possible exclusively for financing and refinancing of capital investment expenditures under the local government budget. The total amount cannot exceed 50% of the total revenues of the previous fiscal year. Unlike the current solution in the Budgetary System Act, where maximum debt was allowed up to 20% of total revenues, the threshold now extends to a maximum debt of up to 50% of the total revenues of the previous fiscal year. Because in practice, we have seen that there really is room for local self-government, especially for justifiable capital projects, to ask for favourable funds to finance these projects and that it is possible to move this limit. Most importantly, the amount of the principal and interest of all long-term borrowings due in one fiscal year in local self-government cannot be more than 15% of the total revenues of the previous fiscal year. So that's the limit. All capitals and interest paid from the local budget can be up to 15% maximum. I must say that almost all local self-governments in Serbia have a duty below 5% at the moment, and many have a duty – zero, so it's a really big space for borrowing and it's comparatively consistent with other countries' experiences. As regards the broadcasting of local bonds, these securities of value can be broadcast. However, it is limited by law that only the Republic of Serbia and financial institutions can buy them. Local self-governments are required to send six months of government debt reports to the finance ministry to have a consolidated picture, a global picture of the country's total borrowing. These are the basic provisions of the Public Debt Act. As for the counter-guarantees on the agenda today, we have a total of 10 counter-guarantees, already concluded on the basis of contracts and guarantees given by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. These are counterguarantees to be issued by the Republic of Serbia. As I have already said, seven of these 10 counterguarantees refer to the pre-government period, based on contracts that were then concluded, and the oldest dates back to September 2001. The three contracts I'm going to talk about are related to the activities of our government. First of all, this is the credit of the European Investment Bank for the Republic Roads Directorate – for the European Roads Project. This is intended for modernising the 65km existing Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, as well as for building a new bridge at Beška, worth a total of 120m euros. It's a 25-year loan, a seven-year payoff. We also have one loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – to fly control, aimed at installing a new flight data processing system and building a new building, purchasing radar sensors and purchasing navigation devices; given that the traffic frequency at Belgrade Airport has increased significantly in recent years, it is also necessary to modernise our flight control. This is a 12-year loan from four years to start, and 33.5m euros are spent on Serbia. The loan was also taken by Montenegro, in a small amount. The third project concluded during the work of our government, which has been agreed for now, is a wastewater treatment project from Palic Lake. So the program is intended for the Municipality of Subotica. This project is worth ninem euros and should improve and extend wastewater treatment in the municipality of Subotica, so that Palicko Lake is purified and that tourism can develop far more aggressively there. So these are the counterguarantees that are in front of us today. These other counter-guarantees are related to the EPS, the Road Directorate, therefore, to infrastructure projects. The last law in this series is the law on debt restructuring towards the London Club, by issuing bonds from the Republic of Serbia. This assembly ratified an agreement with the London Club, on which we received a 62% write-off from the London Trustees Club, and now we're passing a law that will issue bonds based on which the debt will be settled in the coming period. The main debt, after the write-off, is a billion and 80 million dollars according to the London Club. Debt has been restructured for 20 years with a five-year start-up period, and the principal will be paid in 30 equal half-year wars, starting from 1 May 2010. Until then, interest is paid, and the principal is paid off since 2010. The bond interest was agreed on 3.75% annually, between 1 October 2004 and 1 November 2009, and 6.75% annually from 1 November 2009 until the final maturity of the bond. I want to tell you one more thing. Namely, the Republic of Serbia currently has the highest investment banks to refinance this debt, especially after 2010, when the interest rate is something more unfavourable, as you have seen, compared to this one for the first five years, and given that our bonds, which for the first time in history are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, are now being sold at 85 cents per dollar. Just to remind you, during the 1990s, the price was nine cents by one dollar, and now it's 85 cents, which means that the country's credit rating has increased significantly. As you know, when we made an arrangement with the London Club, for the first time in history Serbia received a credit rating in November of last year's renowned house "Standard and Poors", it is "B Plus". After a few months, our rating has been upgraded by one degree, so now "BB minus", and we expect to raise a credit rating every six months for reasons that are now far lower than countries that have a lower social product per capita. So credit agencies simply couldn't give us a higher rating, because we're a country that's never had a credit rating in history. But the promotion of that rating will go far faster than other countries, and when credit ratings increase, that leads to a drop in international institutions' interest rates when loans are granted to us. Otherwise, last year, I will do it again, two billion euros total foreign loans were taken in Serbia, out of which only 300m euros were in debt, along with IMF loans. So that means that a billion and 700m euros was a private debt. Another illusion, I think, or the demagogue thing that has been promoted in public is that the money invested in Serbia – leaving Serbia, simply, in practice, is shown to be completely different. On the contrary, money enters Serbia, and what we must continue to fight as a government is to create conditions for interest rates to be lower. So we're not satisfied with the current level of interest rates, and it's quite clear, no matter what they're lower than they were before, that they're still more than normal standards and we're going to work on these interest rates coming down. As for the specific priorities, we will help budget funds to bring down interest rates for exporters, and interest rates after the adoption of this export credit agency law will be three to four percent annually for exporters. Yesterday we finally made a bill to subsidize housing loans. We decided that the subsidy goes to all those who are up to 45 years old, whether they're married or not, so we expanded the group anyway. I think some of the public's demands have been justified and we've done that the effective interest rate will be about 4.5% a year. So from the current 8.9% will be lowered to 4.5% a year. We expect this loan from September, after this assembly, I hope, by the end of July, adopts the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16498	I thank Mr. Finance Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary club. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support all the laws proposed here regarding the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, as we see that it is the public debt of the Republic of Serbia and the counter-guarantees to be given. It can be seen precisely that it is three times in debt for Serbia's electricity industry, for the railway, or railway-transport company and construction of railway infrastructure, for air traffic, roads; therefore the debt made by the previous two to a greater extent, and this government to a lesser extent. So it's exclusively about the development of infrastructure. For the past five years, we've had two ways to get money for infrastructure development. One is credit borrowing, and the other is the signing of concessions and the construction of infrastructure through the process. From 2000 to 2004 loans were largely taken. We now have the first two-way concession case in the Republic of Serbia. This was actually necessary. No one likes borrowing, no one wants to get into credit arrangements, but we need to remember where the state was five years ago, in what state our infrastructure was in. Without good infrastructure, there are no good future investments, no new jobs. We need to be very aware of that. Also, when it comes to the work of the current government of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you of one thing, which is that borrowing in the previous year and a half was about 150m euros, or 160m euros, which is a clear tendency to reduce debt among international financial institutions. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this and some future ones, continues at such a pace, I think Serbia will meet further EU entry criteria much earlier than some countries in the environment. We are currently in position, according to the Investment Council's source, at about 54-57% of the public debt in the gross social product, which is an encouraging data, especially after the black figures we had in the 1970s, 80s and 90s, and should not be surprised that our bonds are currently on foreign markets and how well they quote. As far as public debt is concerned, I must say that this is the first time in our legislation to define the criteria for how it can be owed; therefore, both local self-government, the Republic of Serbia and public enterprises. This is the first time something like this has been regulated. Of course, it has an effect – the interest rates of the Treasury bonds have fallen. But this is also important for one thing – I will remind you that in 1983, an independent audit house entered the National Bank of the then Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was hired to determine how long the SFRY was. It is just that such situations would no longer occur – that the state does not know how much debt, or how much debt it has owed, that we fully support one such initiative by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the provision that local self-governments can, for example, only 15% of their incomes can give as a principal and interest in one fiscal year. When you take a private loan from a commercial bank you have a censorship that you can't pay off a war in a bank more than a third of your monthly income. So you can't take credit without a monthly or a yearly war being 200 or 300 percent of your income. So far, many things have been done in Serbia without any legal regulation. These additional criteria introduce some normal standards and normal principles that require our fiscal monetary system to function. I hope that this will also reflect some future investments and new jobs, already in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16500	I thank Mr. Dusan Prophetic. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents answering for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of discussions. The first one was signed up for the word by Susan Grubjesic, then Zoran Krasic. I ask MP Susan Grubsic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have before us a bill on public debt. This Law accurately determines the conditions, way and procedure of borrowing the Republic of Serbia, the units of territorial autonomy and local self-government, the organisation of compulsory social security, public enterprises and legal entities, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, when they seek guarantee or counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia. The bill covers all aspects of Serbia's public debt, so what is considered public debt and what are the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of public debt. So far, this area has been regulated under the Budgetary System Act, but only indicatively, in relation to debt and guarantees, while this bill gives a detailed overview of the conditions, ways and procedures under which the Republic of Serbia can be in charge of domestic and foreign creditors, domestic and foreign currency, and then local self-government units, compulsory social security organisations, etc. The subject of public debt is, of course, always current. From time to time she is quite present in our public, and over the past few weeks, we have seen the headlines in the media, with questions: "Is Serbia threatened by a debt crisis", or with the findings that we are about to have an Argentine script. I would also say the floscules came first from the former finance minister, which is understandable, because a man has decided to withdraw from politics, to deal with serious business. But what is not understandable is how he dared to bring one of the world's largest banks into such a highly-indebted and risky country as Serbia is, according to him. I would not comment further on his statements, as it is clear to everyone that it is only the demagogy of a former politician. But unfortunately, after that, some serious institutes dealing with economic issues and research have also come forward, so to speak. Independent analysts, and they had to follow the denial of certain competent ministers in the government, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, so I think this bill on public debt is coming at the right time. I'm going to devote a little time to this famous "Argentin script", just so that Serbian citizens don't believe in the first ball in such forecasts of on-call catastrophes, which are lightly spoken and not always well-intentioned. Argentina suffered an economic collapse in 2001, which is characterized by hyperinflation and general impoverishment of the population. After that, there was a hunger chase at shops all over the country. If we were ever close to that situation, it was a long time ago in 1993, which Serbian citizens remember very well and it is irresponsible to scare them and predict that such a thing could happen in the most recent future. Governor Jelasic painted it in words that we are far from the "Argentin script" as far away as Argentina is geographically from Serbia. I will also remind you that the collapse in Argentina was due to a huge budget deficit and an external debt of 150m euros, and that in December 2001, the Argentinean government announced that it was unable to finance the external debt. If comparisons are already being made, it should be said that this year's Serbian budget for the first time in the history of modern finance is a surplus, currently of around 650m dinars, with the tendency that by the end of the year the surplus is as much as three billion dinars. At the same time, Serbia's external debt is 5.8 billion euros, putting Serbia in line with the World Bank's middle-indebted countries. If the current growth of gross social product and exports continues, there is no point in saying that we will not be able to properly service external debt according to fixed weather dynamics and monetary amounts. In the last four years, Serbia's public debt has been reduced by 4.5 billion euros, and it continues to decrease. The minister has just told us that the next day should further write off about $700m of claims to the Paris Club, which opens up a space for further foreign debt cuts. That is why I think we are free to support this bill, as well as the entire counter-guarantee package for loans from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Because, as we can see, it's about important projects to finance railway recovery, traffic recovery, electricity, air traffic, that is, our flight control and so on. Public debt is divided into both external and internal. The current external debt is the largest debt-related part in the 1970s, when Serbia took foreign loans under the former SFRY, and interest on these loans became huge in the 1980s. In the early 1990s, Serbia froze relations with foreign creditors and has not paid off its external debt for a decade, while the internal ones accumulated. I would like to remind that Serbia has only significantly reduced the share of external debt in the gross social product on the basis of its debt write-offs to Paris and the London Club, and that Serbia's budget provides the necessary funds to pay foreign loans and due repayments to the main foreign debt. At the same time, foreign reserves, currently worth about $5 billion, need to ensure orderly maintenance of external liquidity. So, foreign and fiscal policy should be linked to each other as important assumptions of external debt management. The regulated interest payments and the repayment of the principal debt and the increase of foreign reserves, of course, require an increase in exports at a double-digit annual rate, which depends on the development potential of the economy and the competitiveness of exports. Data for the first four months of this year are also very encouraging. Export growth of 51% is recorded, while imports are reduced by 6.4%. The internal debt structure of the Republic of Serbia is dominated by commitments based on old foreign savings, and the part has been settled neatly since 2001, with the payment of the "Dafiment Bank" savings starting in September, and "Jugoscank Bank" in December 2002. Short-term securities, liabilities to the National Bank of Serbia and, since last year, loans for economic renaissance are also elements of internal debt. In addition, it is envisaged to serve old debt to pensioners, so that the Serbian government has concluded that over the next three years, through the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, 12.5 pensions are provided annually, making up for a time delay in the payment of one and a half pensions. So, the key macroeconomic assumptions of sustainability of public debt are: macroeconomic stability, growth based on an increase in investment and exports, as well as an effective reform of public finances, with a reduction in the volume of public spending. Most of this has already been achieved in this year, and this is usually foreseen by the Memorandum of Budgets, Economic and Fiscal Policy, which we have already discussed in the National Assembly in the adoption of the 2005 budget. New government borrowing is regulated by the Public Debt Act, which accurately determines the conditions under which the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, the organisation of compulsory social security and other legal entities seeking the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia can be entrusted. The Public Debt Administration, whose establishment is foreseen by this law, should manage national debt and base the new external borrowing strategy on realistically established projections of gross social product growth and the country's development needs. Until the administration begins to work officially, these tasks will continue to be carried out by the Finance Ministry's Treasury, as funding in the Republic's budget is needed for the start of the work of the Public Debt Administration. This law will prevent the uncontrollable borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, as well as borrowing under the prescribed conditions, further stimulating investment in projects that will allow for faster development of the economy and society in general. These are precisely the reasons why the G17 parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of this bill, as well as for the adoption of the entire counter-guarantee package.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16502	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and next in line is Radisa Ilic's MP. There are six other registered MPs. We'll work today until we've finished the principle debate on these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16503	Of course, it's a shame that more laws are now being discussed. We probably need one law that should regulate the way, the procedure, the conditions, and I'd say, the frameworks in which the state can be in debt. When I say state, I mean everything we can use as a synonym for that word – the Republic, an autonomous province, local self-government and mandatory funds, so why don't we also say public enterprises of republican importance. This is the order of stereotype laws with standard norms. However, my attention deserves the provision of Article 5. It's a bill of law. It regulates the powers of borrowing, i.e. who makes the decision, who decides on a particular type of borrowing. Earlier, there were technical errors in the opening statement when they were reportedly listed, some basic responsibility. In fact, these are the reasons why borrowing is done, and the basis is something else. It is said -- the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decides on borrowing the Republic through long-term loans, borrowing for financing investment projects, guaranteeing and counter-guarantee, as well as on the direct commitment of the debtor, on the basis of the guarantee given. It is the authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia decides to issue long-term securities of value if the law does not specify otherwise. It's thought, first of all, of the Charter Act of Values and probably of some other laws. Then comes what is most problematic, which is that the finance minister decides to take short-term loans to finance the budget deficit, the current liquidity deficit and to refinance the public debt. When you look at what the minister decides, it is seen that this is what is prescribed by Articles 6, 7 and 8. It's a bill of law. When you look at this causal and consequential relationship, you will see the situation that, practically, the National Assembly will rarely come into a situation to decide on some borrowing. Because Article 5 has even changed its definition. It is said – a long-term loan, and earlier it was a practice that the long-term loan is any one that can be charged for more than a year and all that is below that deadline is considered to be short-term borrowing. However, this law cannot replace something missing from our legal system, which is the law on credit relations with abroad. We used to have this law and it included not only the state, but all economic operators, determined the procedure, the way, and the rich and the limits to which someone could be in charge abroad – precisely because of seeing macroeconomic stability for a longer period of time. So it wouldn't happen that, whether it's a private or business combination, it's a big deal, regardless of what it's provided with guarantees and in some other way -- it's not a threat at the moment when it comes time to return to macroeconomic stability and at all economic flows and financial stability of the state. I think it's a much better solution to tie everything that's related to long-term and short-term borrowing, impressively, by means, to the National Assembly, regardless of what most pro-forms here can support any proposal from their government. Practically, neither the public nor the National Assembly nor the MPs can control the process of borrowing, the justification of borrowing, etc. This is a fundamental remark as regards this bill, as well as an objection relating to the opening of special administrations within the Ministry of Finance. When it comes to borrowing local self-government, I really don't understand what the minister's opinion means. It is said this: a decision on the borrowing of local authorities is made by the competent authority of local authorities, and now there is long-term and short-term borrowing among local authorities, I guess that's clear. This is where you said generic, general, it covered everything. It says: a decision on the borrowing of local authorities is made by the local authorities, according to the ministry's previous opinion. A period of opinion is given, but the legal essence of that opinion is not visible. Is that binding for whoever needs to make that decision? If the opinion is positive – what causes it, if negative – what causes it, or this opinion is that it is supposed to be asked, the executive authority about how the local government will be in charge and how much will be in debt. If that opinion has some binding meaning, then something different had to be written and it was potential, because this is how it goes through the system – "played the radio, didn't play the radio". As for the percentages limited to borrowing for a particular reason, I would take a concrete example: debt to finance current liquidity deficits. In order to ensure the current liquidity of the budget and to allow the budget to service the commitments in the manner and deadlines foreseen, the maturity deadlines, it is said here that the debt is possible and should not exceed 5% of the total revenue achieved in the previous financial year, when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to local self-government, the same principle has been applied, with the percentage reduced to 3%. I don't know what the reason for this reduction is, before we have a very strange dispersion of our municipalities, from the megalopolis of Belgrade to the dwarve municipalities where there are hardly any significant current incomes. The term "current incomes" is given here, with the Republic being said: "total incomes", and with local self-government it is only reduced, and there, however, the total revenues of local authorities in the previous year. In long-term borrowing, this is 50% of the current income achieved. Yeah, there's only a difference in the reasons for borrowing. I think it was supposed to go to the same percentage, so whether the local government is up to 5%, as well as the Republic, because this division can create no confusion, but is asking the answer to the question why is that. Of course, we're against the formation of a special administration that would do these jobs, because we think the Ministry of Finance can do this job. At the very least, they have both the Treasury and other institutions. You also have this budget inspection; it is, above all, about budget users and everyone who can possibly be in charge. Any control can be investigated, as long as it is known through whom those obligations are fulfilled on the basis of their duties. As for the list of counter-guarantee laws, I must point out that it really works nice and sounds nice when it's said that the state is open and has access to international financial organisations. There, loans are granted, loans. By the name of these sites and users, it is evident that this is an infrastructure which is certainly in such a state that reconstruction is needed and that some new investments are needed. But not only do I get the impression, but those people who are professionally following this area don't see any effects on this. There are, however, many things that will happen in the future, but there are also things that are happening in the future. If these investments are supposed to trigger another part of our economy, it's missing. I get the impression that this is a way of entering foreign equipment, that the selected performers are present, that the circle is closed; it's about large amounts of funds, and the ultimate outcome of the total investment is unknown. What I particularly potential is the last law within this set, which is the law amending the Law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the electricity system management project. This reading of the count. There is now a change in Article 4 and it is said: "the loan funds are withdrawn at the request of the borrower to a special account which will be opened on behalf of the loan user at the authorised bank in the Republic of Serbia". In all of your bill's proposals, the difference is that it's somewhere in article 4, and somewhere in Article 5. In different ways, certain banks will go through which these funds will be withdrawn. It's conditioned, somewhat, and a basic loan contract, where a lender can influence and over which banks will go using these funds. It's changing here, because it's probably including that power-saving agency and that group from the former members of the Ministry of Mining, which reportedly brought in these funds, which is probably supposed to get pretty low, so it's not very good to go through an open-air account with the NBS, and that suits people in power, but we're changing the counter-guarantee law that's been brought in, as I recall, in December 2004. That's the only member that's changing. When looking at the logic applied to the change of this member and what is in these laws, when it comes to Article 4 or Article 5—where an account appears at NBS, where the account of the Vojvodjanska Banka appears, where accounts of some other banks occur, or are given arbitraryly to choose where the user will open it. There's a change here. Why? Is that a loaner's order? It's probably a loaner's warrant. I get the impression that the warrant existed last December, so it couldn't change the loan contract if it was completed earlier. How could he change? If the annex came, then you had to let the annex get ratified. If it went through the annex, the annex had to support ratification. That wasn't in the meantime. It is, however, a group that teaches us how to read the power system management numbers and connect distribution companies. I think the American agency was (and here's the one who gave the light bulbs and you know it). In 2000, the US government gave great help – a light to the citizens of Serbia. Today we're changing one law because of an interest group that's bothered with the account from whom these funds will be withdrawn and that this loan will be used by the NBS, because in the original text of Article 4, there was an NBS account. Now he's going, I feel free to interpret him like that, by choice of users. That's how it's written. I think there's some answer missing, and the answer can't be that it's a loaner's order. If it's a loaner's order, then it has to be an annex. I know these agreements have been ratified in the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly of the SRJ and these contracts are moving long ago, they are long present; negotiations with the European Investment Bank etc. It would not be good for people who have decided to vote for these counterguarantees, and especially for this last one, where the Counterguarantee Act is amended, to go with a bitter impression that Article 4 of that law has changed. All this because of the personal interest of some people who in 2001 sponsored those lamps that they shared with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as exclusive representatives of an American NGO for energy, for numbers. I draw attention to the MPs, when it comes to the Public Debt Act, I don't think the name fits either. Because when a public debt is said, it is then associated with something already in place, and this law does not intend to regulate the existing situation, rather than regulate the procedure, the conditions, the way, the organs and everything else that is important when borrowing is done, and then the right term is "legal on borrowing" or "the law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia" to regulate the area within it, depending on the level of government. But we lack clear limits. Secondly, the amount of funds, not only of the long-term but also of these short-term ones, which, at their own cost, can affect not only budgetary stability, but also in other ways in our country's financial flows, still come to the National Assembly – to be looked at by the public, to be looked at by MPs, regardless of what the Government is likely to have most and what it will vote here. I'm afraid when too much authority is given to an individual, no matter what function he's in. If an individual, as finance minister, governor of the National Bank, or in any other sense a certain individual in a state function, can decide whether the state will be in charge. Whether the state will broadcast short or long-term securities of value, how it will participate in the financial market, etc., it is too much authority, especially at this time, as you call it – "time of transition", when the logic of thinking about certain things is simply changing and some new system of values is being created. I think it should be transferred here and unnecessarily formed by a special administration. It can, within the Ministry, be monitored, a team before you have all the inspection apparatus on you. And the main inspection apparatus in this part is a budget inspection, because all those in charge are budget users, either directly or indirectly. Those are our remarks. Of course, we have submitted amendments, so when it comes to the agenda – in 15 days, we will be more specific about why we believe that individual members and individual solutions are bad and that they should change. This first public debt law is too general, its norms are so general, too wide, that it can interpret it as anyone wants. In this law, it mustn't stand like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16504	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16505	First, I would like to express my satisfaction that neither your parliamentary group has any fundamental objections to the public debt law. I must say that I appreciate the opinion of MP Krasic; I think he is very professional and is one of the few from the SRS parliamentary group that does not go with political evaluations, but essentially gives its opinion and possible criticism and suggestions. I'd like to explain some of the things you've set up as a dilemma. You did not have any fundamental objections to the public debt law, but you raised a dilemma as to why the finance minister decides to take short-term loans to finance the budget deficit, current liquidity deficits and to refinance public debt, broadcast short-term government securities. That's right now. In the current Budgetary System Act, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for making decisions on short-term loans or on short-term bond broadcasting, while in other countries it is a rule that long-term loans are subject to parliamentary consent. So, the control of this, as you said, excessive borrowing, is carried out exclusively by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For, and the framework for short-term borrowing, i.e. deficit, the Assembly gives adoption of the budget law. As much as the Assembly has the government's authority to have a deficit over one year, the Ministry of Finance can also withdraw funds from the market to fund the current liquidity, i.e. to finance the current deficit. So, the General Assembly decides on total debt and long-term loans, (where it makes decisions directly), and on short-term – where it indirectly gives, through the approval of the Budget Law, and it is normal for these operational matters to be done by the Ministry of Finance. This is the basic function of the Ministry – to take care of the financing of the liquidity of the budget, but it is only short-term loans. Here, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has full control of the country's borrowing, including this. I don't think there was even any understanding of what was written. The second question was about local self-government – why is the Ministry of Finance's opinion sought? Just for tracking. Of course, it is the law that restricts local self-government, as well as the central government, from some borrowing that is not in accordance with the law, and the Ministry of Finance must, in order to have a consolidated public debt in mind, to monitor if a local self-government is in charge; we need it for records. In order to give great authority to local self-government, given that we are in favour of decentralisation, we wrote that the Ministry's opinion is given within a maximum of 15 days of the date of delivery of the requests, and if the Ministry does not give an opinion within 15 days, the opinion is deemed to be given. This means that if the ministry, because of the impunity of its staff, does not give local self-government an opinion within 15 days, local self-government is considered to have received a positive opinion, which means that the opinion is given, in order for local self-government to have greater flexibility. Finally, I will take another look at this last request of yours, this is an old loan from the European Investment Bank to the EPS. I have here an explanation of my services that, as you assumed, for the reason that this project implies importing equipment that is conditioned by the opening of bank credentials and credentials, which is far easier to do through a business bank – the lender himself asked to change that member during the realisation of this contract. I'm going to ask further questions at the department's department's department. Here, I'll give you the first piece of information on that. Given that your parliamentary group has made amendments: "Station 1 is deleted", "St. 2 is deleted", so as many members (and in this law there are 54 members and all are deleted), and that you have really not had any fundamental objections, I call on your MP group to withdraw the amendments and vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16506	Replica was reported by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16507	You didn't understand me, you spoke to your associate. You see, Article 5 speaks of powers – who makes the decision on borrowing. In one part, I asked for an answer to the question which is the maximum amount to which this country can be owed in the long term. We had such a provision in the law of the former SFRJ, we had in the law of the SRJ – this is the SRJ Funding Act, where there are specific limits: long-term borrowing can be up to 20 percent, so there was something as a criterion, as some basis. We don't know how long-term the state can be in debt, regardless of the basis, regardless of the user. The law does not show – Serbia can borrow so much and so much in the long term, with those deadlines coming in two years, three, four, five etc. Next thing. I would draw your attention if you had written in your bill, in Article 5. (I do not know what the position is, since it is near the end there, that member has many views), says – a long-term loan, i.e. long-term government securities of value within the meaning of this law, are considered loans, i.e. government securities of value, whose repayment period extends to the coming financial years. It has undoubtedly been indicated that the maturity period is longer than a year. I agree, but then you have a current liquidity deficit, you say by December 31st it has to end, so you said up to 5% of the total income from last year. Then you say -- the debt to finance the budget deficit, when it comes to the Republic, you have not limited it by anything, and then you say here -- when the National Assembly adopts the budget law, it decides on the budget deficit, and within that budget deficit, the states can be in debt, probably briefly, because the budget deficit has logic for the budget year. I'm telling you, there's a whole system of long-term, short-term mechanisms. Who decides that an uncontrollable state is in charge and goes far, far, in the form of short-term borrowing, in the form of trading securities of value on the secondary market, etc. I do not dispute that you are doing this, I'm just saying, let the National Assembly know that there are limits to long-term borrowing, for the short term, in what period, to what amount. That's what you need, because if you don't have it, then what does your opinion on the local self-government mean? And you have a projection when you give your opinion to local self-government. You have some projection of how the financial system, the state of the economy, etc. is going to move. That's what this is about. The law has a purpose if it has control measures according to the executive authority, if there are norms prescribed by the rules of conduct to be defined by that standard. He's got his own diapazon from where and where. We have here all the standards that are too wide. Everything can be settled to be legal. That's our basic objection. Norma needs to be specific. Unless it's concrete, how are we supposed to control the government? A short-term record of value, a short-term task, not to tell you about techniques as far as it's possible to expand it all, go some deadline, replace it, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16508	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and then the Messenger of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about a set of counterguarantee laws, I would like to congratulate all citizens of Serbia on the great Serbian holiday Vidovdan, a holiday that has perpetuated heroes as well as traitors. This set of laws envisions giving a counter-guarantee for a loan of about 700m euros. This is only one in a series of many loans, to which the government of the Republic of Serbia buys social peace. A large part of these funds will probably never be recovered by public enterprises guaranteed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which means that this loan will also fall under the burden of Serbian citizens. What Mladjan Dinkic was doing in that cruise DOS is doing today. Contribution of about 700m euros slowly but certainly pushes the Republic of Serbia into debt slavery, which is precisely thanks to experts from G17 plus increasingly certain. Let the minister inform the public what a deficit it is, how much production growth is in Serbia, but according to that people's "holds a barrel of water while the masters leave". This is how Minister Dinkic and G17 Plus behave, because they know well that with current 2-3% of public opinion support in Serbia, they are going to go into history after the next elections and will never again have an impact on the people as they do today. So Mladjan Dinkic, finance minister, simply doesn't worry about how these loan funds will be returned, so he is welcome to put an end to the possible social fire in a huge number of fired, disfellowshipped and cheated workers and Serbian citizens. Let's just look at the systems. It's about Serbia's railway, Elektroprivredija, the Republic Road Directorate. Therefore, those public undertakings that can be extremely profitable, so they qualify as loans for foreign customers, i.e. those that are inert and represent a good opportunity to lose the trail of investment of huge loans. What is the proposal for a counterguarantee law on loans to finance emergency traffic recovery projects? Are there projects that purposely envision these 50m euros? Do you know who the end-users are? Whether the financial effect of investment is known to be this large, or as many times as it has been so far, is going to be a bottomless barrel. Imagine, in this bill, Article 3 says – borrowers are the Republic Directorate for Roads and Public Enterprise Belgrade. Let's all remind ourselves now what happened at the public company Belgrade Airport last year. You remember the 70,000 ficus, 600 dinar coffeespoons, special marbles, third-rate photos paid at astronomical prices. Now you tell the citizens of Serbia that where millions are embezzled (and if anyone is responsible at all), funds should be taken from the loan to collect chandeliers, service bells, gold Chivilci etc. All at the expense of Serbian citizens, whose money you place on someone's disposal to buy ficus again, style furniture, expensive cups. If we think of any more strikes that have shaken JAT, then we can imagine how purposefully the loan funds will be used. The second beneficiary of the loan is the Republic Road Directorate, not to mention the Ministry of Capital Investment. Minister Vela Ilic, a month or two ago, was killed here by proving that the Directorate is doing excellently, that his toll and other services are small and that it is necessary to give foreigners concessions for individual routes, so let them break their heads with allegedly small profits. But radicals have just proven the opposite, collecting revenue from tolls, which are enormously large, that much of the reconstruction is financed right from there. Now the loan funds go to Velimir Ilic, his ministry, plus around 186m euros for the reconciliation of the commitments reached. In the light of the budget of the Republic Road Directorate, it can be concluded that there will be an increased inflow into the funds of this ministry. The fact that, say, the Directorate is wasting money, that's a different story. Here's the section of the highway from Lapov to Cuppre did so beautifully last fall, changing it with a recycled asphalt, that after just a few days, mini craters of rough surfaces appeared, which were growing every day. There worked a whole army of people with a variety of diverse and expensive machinery. Today we're witnesses, after only half a year, the stock is being rewritten; again, a large number of workers, mechanics, and who pays for it? It doesn't seem to matter, the state takes over everything on its shoulders, the interest is slowly, but it certainly increases, and the projected revenues - nowhere. Among other things, the Republic Directorate is the beneficiary of another loan for which it receives a 95m-euro counter-guarantee, and when all is collected Velimir Ilic, that is, his ministry receives about 400m euros from loan funds. Just to cover the losses, a little patching up the roads, something to leave behind for the sociale in Serbia, and the money is gone. Maybe all of this is arranged to fit certain shares and the accompanying infrastructure nicely, so the story of rentability is invented, and eventually, as a "solomon solution" comes up with the idea of giving concessions to foreign partners. The total funds mentioned in the 10th proposal for a counter-guarantee law are not small, nearly one-fifth of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Serbia's government sort of distributes these funds in public consumption, without any hope of returning at least part to the state, i.e. Trustees. This is how our public debt only increases, and from where it will return, I believe that Minister Dinkic himself, who came out of the O.R., does not know. What now, Minister Dinkic's full budget of Serbia is disastrous for our citizens. Tax bonds have been put in a position to gently reduce the number of employees, shut down their businesses, shut down their shops. Since the five-October assembly group, therefore, had closed down a large number of companies after taking over, and fired hundreds of thousands of workers, and the number of people who contributed to the state has decreased. There's almost a million of them out of work today. Agricultural production rests. Take, for example, just this year. The cherry no longer mentions, the raspberries are on the extremity, and so will the grains. The Peasant Ministry of Finance, or Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, burdened the mandatory PIO. So, from such a ministry of finance, it's full of budgets. Several proposed counterguarantee laws mention the public undertaking EPS, which is only a special story. How many radicals have spoken of abuse in this public enterprise, the energy lobby that rules this branch of economy. Unfortunately, the report by the Survey Committee on the Research of the Criminal Energy Lobby cannot come to the Serbian Parliament's agenda. The total set of loans for the EPS amounts to $50m, 16m euros and two and a halfm euros -- aimed at paying off the commitments made on the earlier debt. The energy minister, however the electricity price increases, always says: funds are needed to rebuild, to revitalise the EPS. So the DOS governments, including today's government, have raised electricity prices enormously for the last five years, but the funds received by the increase in electricity prices have not been restored; therefore, there is a loan, and this will be done more elegantly, no matter what the new electricity collection is soon to come. Otherwise, the energy minister is determined to hold the situation in his hands. Here, gas stations are packed with diesel; the vans, which in a few days go into the harvest, are likely to work on water. If the EPS story hadn't just ended, the ruling coalition's actors -- Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and former DSS official Zoran Drakulic -- had taken care of it. They called out nicely, but also mentioned some 12m euros in extra payments on behalf of the debt buyout, again through another company in another country. That's how money's being spent, maybe this is how it ends from the projected loan. Here I ask the same question – are there precise projects to invest in this loan and is the amount of revenue increased, i.e. to receive funds that will be paid back to creditors properly? The easiest thing to say is to design a project for reconstruction. It's a very broad term that basically doesn't have to mean anything. This can also be a special way to prepare individual profitable parts of the EPS for sale. The EPS debt does not return, it remains to the Republic, and someone at the small door reaches an extremely valuable system for relatively small funds. Now we're going back to the Ministry of Capital Investment, and it's about the railways. In addition to 70m euros, the Ministry of Capital Investments has received an additional 35.7m euros for paying its commitments. So over 100 million euros. And so the money that falls on the burden of all citizens will be praised for being successful, as it is done, even the means to increase the city's joy as well. Let's just remember what the minister was talking about when the Law on Railways was being discussed, about unemployment, the reduction of labour force, about the division of railways into two continents, to make it easier to privatise. One part to deal with the transport of goods and passengers, and the other with maintenance of infrastructure and traffic. So, it does not happen that these 70m euros are used to make up railways, precisely by shares and parts of infrastructure that can be sold, or put into concessions. I wish there was a need for reconstruction in remote parts to be used, to repair the line crossings, to ground the tunnels, to replace the rotten thresholds, the old rails, and not to turn out the trains from the track. Whether it is worth the work to return the funds from the railway to the state, or this is just a way for the government to reach part of the funds that will calm the growing social tensions in Serbia through public enterprises. The SRS will surely rule Serbia after the next parliamentary elections and is aware of this by every citizen of Serbia. That is why it is very important for us to prevent the inappropriate borrowing of our republic by irresponsible ministers whose rating will soon be measured by the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16510	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16511	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I understand why Dinkic is in a hurry – because we are bringing a post-festum, or you will vote for counter-guarantees and public debt law, for 700m euros, which is already being spent. And don't think Serbian citizens think that twenty of you, as many of you as you are on this side, so the camera doesn't walk around the hall, and it's twice as radical right now, you're making some significant decisions here, in the sense that you're going to contribute to the state's capital increase; I forgot, there are two representatives from the finance ministry, they're left to listen to this, because the minister was in a hurry. So today we need to legalise the robbery committed by Dinkic and the company and the predecessors of the DOS furniture. Contragrations, which are on the agenda today and which are said by sectors that the money is foreseen, and especially for this Kumsky mafia lobby – Hamovic and Lazarevic, and for EPS, worth $45m, that is the money that has gone, as well as the counter-guarantee for the construction of roads in Serbia, in people who should not have taken over state functions in their own hands, public sector management, finance, so-called management. investments. Because it has proved (and this is what these mentors of yours tell you in the Stabilisation and Association Report working document, since you have re-untilized these days for 2004), that since you came to power, I think of you who carry out the continuity of Djindjic, Zivkovic, and now Kostunica's government, you have additionally tasked the state of Serbia for another three billion euros. If those economically "real experts" (evaluate yourself) who are close, above all, to the DSS, and who were actively involved in the Marsican campaign and later Kostunica's parliamentary elections, say that Serbia's external debt to all those with whom the state has owed 14m euros, then you can see where we are as a state and what further we should do without making decisions that go on to harm all citizens. A question arises for every Serbian peasant who today has to go black from morning to dark and earn bread bark, and Dinkic, of course, does not see it, but, as Mr Nikolic said yesterday, through the registration of agricultural households, through the registration of a lamb or, unfortunately, only one or possibly two cows that today have an average Serbian host. So, you want these people and future generations of additional coercion through a policy of continued borrowing and through projects that you're supposed to invest something in Serbia, and in fact one small group of people is laundering that kind of money, an enormous robbery of citizens of Serbia, is getting rich at the expense of all of us. We were best able to see this through the example of these two who are harassing Serbia-Hamovic and Lazarevic, and through what citizens will (so that these two poor billionaires can further increase capital) to see in July of the month when there is a new collection of electricity. All the time, all these days, through anti-Serbian hysteria spreading through media that are directly or indirectly controlled by some of the ruling parties, you want to return citizens' attention to some period that is not at this moment that does not make them interested and not have the right attitudes and that they believe only what the SRS is saying, when it comes to this national state segment and what we had to do as state and people – to defend ourselves and to try to defend it, but unfortunately today in Serbia there are over a million persecuted Serbs. But you talk all the time about something that has nothing to do with today. Today – Vidovdan, in Serbia, is marked by people being hungry, farmers see no more to do and who can help them through, above all, the tax policy conducted by Dinkic and this government, through the fact that they have no opportunity to improve their production process. All those who have given themselves to produce healthy food in Serbia have been humiliated, and we have boasted about it, and today, of course, we Serbian radicals claim that we have potential in this sense – that we can produce and export healthy food. But whom shall we tell when there is no minister, no member of the government, in a situation where you offer us to vote for the counterguarantees the country is in charge of, through loans that someone will have to repay. If one of you from the ruling set would be willing to go to the assembly speaker to say responsibly that every dinar, or every euro in these duties, has been spent on purpose, would have to be either so bold or rude, or had the courage to deceive all of us on this side and the citizens of Serbia, who know that this alleged aid, or credit, never comes to the end. Remember only what the finance minister promised two months ago and the Minister of Labour and Employment -- that, in the context of the new government policy, in the employment process, every unemployed citizen of Serbia (almost a million, said 980,000, and there are many more) will be able to get a loan from the labour bureau, or the employment agency, of between 5 and 20,000 euros to start some production. Even those who have never been registered at the Employment Bureau, who allegedly have not registered any activity, will be able to get that loan with a large grace period, with a long payment deadline, to do something about it. Speedy people, which from the village, which no one from the city sees, are surprised there and say that these loans are not there, that no one is ready to finance, of course. You are only distracting these people and, above all, the sad citizens of Serbia, that there is a better future with you and the policy you are leading. It is this report, this working document from last year, and as it has been since this year, because it is very important to you, above all, that you lobby for this "Igman Initiative", where everything that is against Serbia and the Serbian people is being pushed through, with such statements by the one you also support, which is the current president of the state union. You care very much about what the IMF and the World Bank will tell you, whether the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, whose counter-guarantees are on the agenda, will give you a green light, will you bring on paper a project which, of course, has never been implemented until the end of the day, and on the other hand, do not think about the people you promised a concrete amount and a concrete offer. Why don't they have these loans if they want to be in charge of such fantastic conditions? Of course, that's the same story Dinkic told yesterday – loans of 4% for residential construction are about to arrive, subsidies for farmers, everything will be nice, we will restore Kragujevac, Bor and Vranje, the automotive industry will work. Of course it doesn't have anything. After this hot summer, as weather conditions stand, and above all hunger in Serbia is high, people expect something concrete to happen. I suppose you have no courage or courage, because all these reports that come to you from various false and authentic agencies say that your party ratings from day to day collapse, to go and talk to people, to face them, to tell you as far as these policies are going, which in economic and social terms is just a continuation of what the previous DOS furniture was doing. That is how it is seen from counterguarantees, which are on the agenda, which the Republic of Serbia should give to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro for projects made up two or three years ago. I really don't understand that hypocrisy of yours, especially among those who deny the possibility of the functioning of this state union of Serbia-Montenegro, when you say on the one hand: no, it doesn't work. But you're saying it now, and we were saying it at the beginning, when Labus signed with Djindjic and Kostunica so-called. The Belgrade Agreement, and the Constitutional Charter. You know that the state community is something fictional, some new creation -- it's not a confederate, it's not a real union, it's got its own budget, it's not a single market, it doesn't run a single monetary policy. You are now offering counterguarantee to such a state community, for the incredible amount Serbia has committed. It's just that you're not so bold in your performance as to tell us: let's also give a counter-guarantee to Mil's mob plan, the separatist plan, so that their debts take over Serbia on their shoulders. Of course, Serbian citizens see it all and know that one working day in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what we explicitly disagree with these devastating decisions, is not lost only if they speak to them on that working day and only those who sincerely think to them are representatives of the SRS. If that's what he's saying again, for the third time I repeat, and this report, which is done by those whose opinion you care very much about, where exactly by segments you can see what kind of disaster Serbia is in today, so in charge, in the inability to return it, because there are no economic flows that have been launched in the last year and a half without talking about that period three years ago. The only option and the only way to get rid of this ballast, and of course the debts taken, and will oblige generations because of you to pay, to stop the further borrowing of Serbia, is to have new elections and that other people, or Serbian radicals, take power into their own hands and say what we can from real sources, what we are able to do as a state. But before we deal hard with poverty and poverty with the greatest pain today – that is crime and corruption, which have largely released tentacles in all economic branches and all segments of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16512	Thank you. The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first law in this order of law is the bill of public debt. You've heard from the MPs of the SRS that no one has disputed the need for one of these laws. Mr Krasic individually explained the views of the SRS, related to individual members. I'd just like to comment on two members of this law. It is Article 18, which refers to the conditions for giving guarantees, where it is said that a commission can be charged for giving a guarantee. On what terms? It is said: "The Minister of Finance is closer to regulating the conditions that debtors must meet in order for the Republic to give the guarantee, the procedure for submitting requests, the content of the guarantee requirements, the conditions for the security instruments, as well as the amount of commission referred to in Article 1." It is not disputed to charge a commission, but the question is which commission is charged by the ministry or the Republic as a guarantee of it. The Public Debt Act provides that the state can borrow the financing of current liquidity deficits, budget deficit financing, refinance and finance investment projects, calculating, of course, local self-government. Now it just turns out that the ministry, or the Republic, is somehow recalibrating its state again, trying to charge someone a commission by giving them a guarantee, and that's the money that comes to the state. I find it really unclear what this member wanted to achieve and why it is foreseen that a fee can be charged if this law is intended for the state to strictly guarantee public debt only for certain areas for which credit is taken. Article 30. The draft public debt law refers to a ban on the use of privileged information. It is in Chapter VI. State securities of value. See what you're saying here: that no one can buy state records out of value using privileged information. It is then stated which persons may possibly have privileged information and, of course, it is envisaged that they should not, on the basis of their having such information - secret information, to extend them further, to transfer them to someone and thus, by buying state records from value to a certain profit. On account of this member, I've come to criminal provisions, to see how it's sanctioned for those who can't do it. I find it very interesting that in the criminal provisions, Article 30 is very skillfully bypassed. The penalties for Article 29 relating to something other than Article 31 are provided here if its provisions are violated, which again applies to something else, but for the provision of information which is privileged there are no criminal provisions, which means that some people working in certain public services who have such information will be able to collect extremely well, and that practically there will be no mechanism to be punished under this law. When it comes to other laws relating to the granting of counterguarantees of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of various borrowings, it is seen, above all, that the most money has been taken so far and is planned to be taken from the European Investment Bank in the future. However, there is also the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, various financial organisations from Germany, the Government of Poland, and that gives an impression to MPs, and also to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in a position to possess such information, that the government is simply acting in a way that individual representatives have been sent to travel through Western countries and, as a matter of fact, try to "refuse" as many financial institutions as possible. If they succeed, it is good, and if they fail, it is good again. But the guarantee of everything taken will be the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is an impression that someone is in a hurry to practically declare some kind of bankruptcy against the Republic of Serbia in a short time. Because it is obvious that taking on such guarantees will soon not be able to guarantee the Republic of Serbia, so I ask myself, as a man, and I probably share the opinion of most Serbian citizens, why have you failed to provide guarantees in the world, at least for some part of these loans, say some other governments -- the government of Western countries that destroyed our economy first by sanctions, and then by unfeelingly bombing? Why, if they do not want to pay war compensation, they are not at least guaranteed (some of these governments) for some of the loans we would use here for investment, first of all, in production, so that in some way we could start this economy, we would employ people, to ensure how decent life in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there's nothing of it, because you've amnested them, and now the question is, how long until Serbia, how long will the citizens be able to hold out guarantees like this, and basically this assembly has no idea how much money is being spent on these guarantees. Here's an example of how some money has already arrived in Elektroprivreda from the German financial organisation KFE, but MPs have given a guarantee, but they haven't had a chance to get someone from the government here to tell them how that money was spent. During the adoption of the Energy Act, two agencies were established. I think that from time to time, at least through members of the government, they would have to submit a kind of report, because they have huge money from the citizens' budget, in order to simply be MPs, (not to think of the MPs of the only opposition party – the SRS, I think of those who support the government) we can know what the guarantee is for, and what is not and what will happen to us soon when the government finally has to recognise that the country is over-indebted, that we cannot repay the debts and who you plan to, eventually, declare Serbia a state under bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16514	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16515	Ladies and gentlemen, everything that Minister Dinkic said about this, as popularly said, to a package of ten laws, sounds really nice, but no one believes it. He spoke to Minister Dinkic as if he did not live in the country of Serbia and as if the citizens of Serbia did not know what was happening to them and what is meant by all these draft laws, which, like this, have been stamped into one pile, proposed to the National Assembly. He left out Minister Dinkic to say that all these laws on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia amount to 663m euros, $50m and $1.8 billion in long-term bonds. His general story, however, that his duties have been reduced, may have been misleading, but that is why we are here to explain to the MPs (and 10-15 of them are listening) and also to the citizens of Serbia, what does these proposals of Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia mean to this parliament. In the debate, colleagues who have promised to support these proposals (of course they support the government and it is logical to support the proposals) stressed that these counter-guarantees, these loans we have received so far really make sense, because they are built into infrastructure, so there is some drastic difference in infrastructure in Serbia compared to 2000 and 2000 years. I really don't know where that infrastructure is. I guess we all live in Serbia, we go through Serbia's roads, we cross bridges, and what's done is worth as much as these counterguarantees we have in front of us today. When it comes to public debt law, it was a really interesting opinion issued by Minister Dinkic. He said how much loans have been cut, as much as Serbia's debt has fallen and he says -- the good part of the budget now is that there's no need for us to be in debt anymore. He said, "No need for us to be in debt anymore." If there's no need for us to be in charge, then I don't know what we need this law for, then to whom does he bring it? Minister Dinkic, when replicating Zoran Krasic, said he called on SRS lawmakers to withdraw the amendments they submitted to the public debt law. Of course, the minister can't say that, but that's why we MPs invite him to withdraw this law, because nothing in this law is well regulated. It is obvious to him why we asked the amendments to delete all the members of the law - of course, because the whole law is not good, from the very name of the law to the last member. I would ask the question of the minister, who said that so far we had no legal regulation of this matter – how could he be in charge, or that he owed us a year and a half, if he had no legal basis for it? How did those before him have that right? On the basis of which they did so, if he says today that there was no legal basis and that what was provided for in the Budget Law is not enough, that it is only indicative etc. Why, then, when he came into office, he did not immediately submit a bill like this, knowingly not to violate the law, as he did all these years, that is, for a year and a half. In this law, I said, from this Article 1 which states what is being regulated: "This law regulates the conditions, the way and procedure of borrowing the Republic of Serbia, the units of territorial autonomy and local self-government, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the republican pension funds" etc. Perhaps this law was waiting for Minister Dinkic to start sharing pensions, as he announced them last week, and there are no traces. Therefore, Article 1 states that this law speaks about the conditions, the way and the process of borrowing the Republic of Serbia. And yet, of course, the same song continues – the Republic of Serbia will be in charge of something needed, for the funds to be provided in the budget. It still doesn't occur to anyone to do anything about revitalising the economy, not just to open new plants, but to revive the existing economy, but to continue to be in debt, again with some grace periodes. You remember that time from the beginning of 2001, when the then DOS officials talked about loans with a grace period, so the Serbian citizens didn't even know what it meant, they didn't even know that if it was a grace period for three or five years it would take so many years to start returning these loans. That was very modern at the time, and we now guarantee those loans that were taken and spent a long time ago. Commented here on Article 5. The proposal for a public debt law and it is indeed the most interesting one, as point 1 states: "The Republic can be in charge of financing the budget deficit, current liquidity deficits, refinanced unmistakable debt, financing investment projects, as well as carrying out commitments under the guarantees." Once again, the confirmation of what we Serbian radicals have been saying for years – that you are borrowing and borrowing us and that what you are taking on behalf of these debts just runs through the budget; that Serbian citizens have no concrete benefit from it; you are not opening up the possibility that once you take a loan, you will open up some production from which this credit will eventually return. You are thinking from this day forward, thinking about what you intend to do, to satisfy your own personal and party needs. And what Serbia's citizens are going to have, in fact, is already clear to them and they already know how hard they are to live. Paragraph 5 of Article 5 states: "The Minister of Finance is the only one who is authorised to negotiate borrowing on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Republic and to conclude credit agreements, or to issue government securities of value." This is really fantastic! This much power to Mladjan Dinkic! Well, he's done it before without the law. Why would we now legalize something that Mladjan Dinkic has been doing since he served as finance minister? Of course, yesterday we discussed a so-called. A package of laws that legalise what government representatives, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are already doing, is just continuing what we started yesterday. The reasons for the adoption of this law, it states, are, above all, contained in the need to define the conditions, ways and procedures in which the Republic of Serbia can be in charge, as well as the need to prescribe ways and procedures in which territorial autonomy and local self-government can be entrusted. Indeed, a logical question arises, how have they been in charge so far, based on whose powers, who has abused their signature to lend both Serbia and local self-government? It's obviously something that we're still going to lose track of, although we Serbian radicals, we know excellent answers to these and all other questions. About that way. It is an interesting proposal for a law on debt restructuring under the New Financial Agreement of 20 September 1988 and deposits under the Trade and Deposit Exemption Agreement, as of 20 September 1988. We've been listening since the DOS was in power, and now this government, that these debts have been forgiven. Then why do we need a debt restructuring if he's gone? Or you lied to the people the whole time you talked about it, and I mean the representatives of the government, or the government, from the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, and now Vojislav Kostunica. Either you lied then, or you're lying to us now. So this law should not be passed if the information is correct that these debts are forgiven. When it comes to these individual laws on the granting of counterguarantees, there are indeed very interesting proposals here; let's say, this proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Programme of the reconstruction of the municipality infrastructure of the municipality of Subotica). Of course, we Serbian radicals don't mind developing the municipality of Subotica, editing Palic, creating conditions for the development of tourism. I ask you, do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many municipalities in Serbia, the seat of municipalities, without talking about villages, has no basic infrastructure. How many municipalities in Serbia do not have water and sewerage, something that is unimaginable in this time. Of course, it is not taken into account either at the level of the Republic or at the level of those local self-government. As far as this law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the B-Serbia-Montenegro European Roads Project, as far as I know, concessions have already been given for some of the road sections. I guess it makes sense that concessions provide new funding, not that we provide guarantees for the financing of users of concessions. This is indeed unacceptable and inconclusive, as it is unacceptable and inconclusive to give counter-guarantees to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the European Investment Bank to finance a railway reconstruction project. Do you remember what the Law on Railways you passed, how you introduced the possibility of privates setting up certain shares, and does that mean we're going to give counter-guarantee to fund those privates that will work on those shares? The proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the government's loan to the Republic of Poland to finance a project to restore Serbia's electricity economy, is indeed a pearl over pearls, that the state of Serbia guarantees the profits of Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. It's just amazing, because they were the only ones who benefited from this job. Serbian radicals spoke extensively about it. Of course, there is also a report by the Survey Committee, that is, Alexander Vukic, as an isolated opinion, which will one day be held at the session of this assembly, we just don't know when. There are also criminal charges the prosecution doesn't respond to, but one day it will react. We also have a proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the reconstruction of roads in the Republic of Serbia. The law and several other laws show the continuity of the governments of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vojislav Kostunica. We all know well and remember who was building roads around Serbia, how he got these jobs, how he got money. That money was spent a long time ago, the one who built the roads got that money and spent it. Those who are in the current government have also commented on these jobs for a while. Today, the government is proposing that we give counter-guarantee to those already spent funds. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Serbian government is trying to do is not serious about the citizens of Serbia. The fact that you thought such a Rules of Procedure would make it impossible for us Serbian radicals to familiarize the citizens of Serbia with all the intentions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as you can see, is not behind you. Or that you're giving us 10 points connected to one point in order to have as little time as possible to talk about each of these points of the agenda, you're also not going to achieve the goal. We'll always say what we think we should say. We also said that when this assembly worked without TV transmission, we also tell the citizens of Serbia wherever we appear, and we show up. Unlike all of you, we are always with our people. Once again, I would like to stress that I call on colleagues from the ruling majority, when they return from their vacations and when they come to this hall to vote – not to vote for these laws; that what Mladjan Dinkic here told the most common lie and dusting to the citizens in the eyes. Serbia must start taking care of the standard of citizens, of production, of how citizens really want to change, of wanting to live better in this Serbia. The citizens of Serbia deserve it, too, and Serbia deserves it. Of course, he deserves better and more serious authority. Indeed, no one in Serbia can benefit from this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16516	MP Veroljub Arsic is not present. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that this area is governed by law, when it comes to terms, the way and the procedure of borrowing, both in the country and abroad. In his presentation, Minister Dinkic explained mostly his duties abroad. I think that the country's responsibility also deserves a lot of attention, because it is too much – say the country's acquaintances that the country's debt is equal or even greater than the foreign debt. Everyone owes each and every one of them, and that's why there's a big problem of indifference with businesses and businesses in the country. Practically, it is impossible to repay debts, to collect claims; all the credentials, whether it is a state, state-owned enterprises, whether EPS, NIS or someone else, practically, are unable to collect the debt from the company, created for years, the way it has been done so far. In my presentation, I would briefly look back on two aspects. One aspect is the cost of borrowed funds, when it comes to short-term loans, where interest is extremely large and where significant costs are in solving the cash flow. Very rarely, loans are used to launch production cycles and create new jobs, increase production, or create new values, new pairs. It is mainly about solving debt problems and maintaining the current liquidity. The second aspect is the return of borrowed funds. If the funds are spent on salaries, on repaying debts, there is no new value, then there is no funds to repay the loaned funds increased by significant interest, which is, I say, a large one, when it comes to short-term loans. Then problems pile up and there's a situation that it's impossible to repay borrowed funds. This is seen through an example of how in any company where the state's majority owner is impossible to collect any claim. Insults, for example, the amount of damage caused by work injury is impossible to charge because the employer does not have the means, and the state is the owner of the company. In any procedure of forced collection, you are not in a position to charge what is already a judicial verdict. Is there anything the state can do on that plan, to ensure the possibility of collecting claims, not to make it look like all credentials have been cheated. I'm particularly talking about large systems, where the state has declared itself the owner of the company, or the majority owner of the company. It has been noted that this law too gives Minister Dinkic too much power, so what I have just tried to say is that Minister Dinkic is the first violin in a band called Government or plays an instrument that is strongest and most heard. Is it because of the nature of his job or of him as a man who is able to seize so many powers, because other ministers are not like that, or as other politicians say, Minister Dinkic has kidnapped him, he has become too restless, so the Prime Minister – Kostunica cannot control him and it is time for him to be restrained, in terms of his competences, powers etc. I would ask the gentlemen of the Ministry to write down, if it is protocolly possible, if it is in line with the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, since I am not in a position to ask the Minister, because whenever I go out for a pay phone he comes out, he stays in the Assembly a little bit – who ordered, whether he has any influence on it or, God forbid, he has blessed the IRS to enter the "Minister" to register the basic funds in order to necessarily charge taxes to the state, because it is a state-owned company. A state-owned company, and a state tax collector enters, confiscates the underlying assets and tries to force the tax. Practically, it closes down the company. I said it was luck, or an accident for the state administration that those basic assets were worth nothing, that they couldn't find the buyer. This is not the agreement of ministers in the same government, and there are: economy, privatisation, finance -- they are all in the same government and they are probably agreeing on a set of priorities, on the possibility that the business entity will be able to function. Which is an employer who does not care about his business, but only real costs, makes losses through large interest-provided non-refundable liabilities, due to additional borrowing or the fact that obligations are not met, and therefore additional debts are created on this basis. The biggest problem is that nobody cares about it when it comes to big businesses. I know that the regulations that have been passed so far create conditions, and that's what it feels like. It's not talked about clearly and loudly, but it feels like the state is going to send these big companies into bankruptcy. He is unable to privatise them, given the nature of these companies, the size of the debts, the debt to international banks, domestic banks, domestic creditors. It is the easiest thing to do through several provisions of the Labour Act, in the year when bankruptcy proceedings are launched, to deceive the trustee, or his employees in his own company, in such a way that they will not be paid their entire profits, but only in nine months, a minimum profit, which is not paid in full, but only half of the sum, because Minister Lalovic installed it in the Labour Act. I feel that practically in the inability to privatise, i.e. the restructuring of the company is going bankrupt, and this would mean a very difficult social problem for the people in Timoška krajina, Bor, Majdanpek and the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16518	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16519	Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises as to why the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is now discussing a set of counterguarantees that we have here on the agenda, especially since 2001 and 2002. So someone seriously tasked the Republic of Serbia in that period, headed by the DS and the rest of the DOS, which now again forms a government of the Republic of Serbia and a new assembly majority. Why was there then a desire or a will that the National Assembly would not discuss counterguarantees? What are the reasons of the then government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the DS, that we do not have this counterguarantee? When looking at the date on which the obligation was made, who created the obligation – the Republic Road Directorate. Who was using the funds? Protected witness DS – Ljubisha Buha, called Chume. He got a job past any procedure as a subcontractor. Where did the job end? Most of the time on the highway, like everything he's done before. The money that now Serbian citizens are supposed to pay back was made by the mafia. Who was helping this mob? The Democratic Party and the rest of the DOS. Now the question is, how do you think you're going to go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and tell the truth that for those you've supported and with whom you're now making secret alliances and coalitions, you need money, which is charged hugely from the budget and yells at the tax tariffs and rates of the Serbian citizen, to return the loans used by the mafia, organised crime, protected witnesses. When you get into the essence at all, you can see that there's a loan to the EPS, to the stability of the power system. Why don't they ask them to pay back the money or to charge those who robbed the power system, who imported the electricity when we didn't need it, and they exported it when we needed it, who were earning and creating extra profit on the burden of Serbian citizens. How much electricity has she accumulated in this period? Why don't those who have profited from the purchase (not Elektroprivreda) return these loans? Or perhaps for air traffic control, are the yellow spoons of 650 dinars or filadendrons and ficuses of 40,000 dinars? How do you rob 20 million euros? To spoons and flowers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-28-0.u16520	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on items 17-28 of the agenda. We're finishing today's work. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Goran Svilanovic and Milovan Markovic. We move on to a joint principled review of the 29-35th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF VAT LAWS, PORES PROCEDURE, CARINI, CARINAL TARIFI, SOCIAL ASSESSMENTS, TASASES AND PROGRAMMES OF THE ADDITIONAL PUBLIC MARK IMPLEMENTAL DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the agenda under points 29 - 35, and before the opening of a joint principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, the Proposal for a Law on Customs Tariffs, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Obliging Social Insurance, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on the issue of an Additional Postal Mark. Since the minister hasn't arrived yet, I'm setting a 15-minute break.
