ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22104	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Željko Ivanji, Ksenija Milivojevic, Miloljub Albianić, Ivana Kovacevic and Ivan Zivadinović. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. Godinu (with the 2006 Memorandum of Understanding, projections for 2007 and 2008 and the financial plans of the republican organisations for 2006 and in particular) you have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milorad Belić, Suzana Grubješić, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Miloljub Albianić, Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic, Srdjo Komazec, Milorad Mirčić, Momir Marković, Milorad Buh, Zoran Antic, Vitomir Milosevic, Miljko Čevrović, Ljubomir Kragović, Milan Stevović, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Mašić, Branislav Rankić, Branislav Blažić, Paja Momčević, Zlatan Jovanovic, Petar Jožić, Vitomir Plužević, Štević, Stevica Djeljić, Švrjavrštajić, Jadić, Mira Šamić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić and Dragić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. National MP Miroslav Markicevic and MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, in writing, withdrew the amendments to Article 6, which they submitted on 14 November 2005, and submitted new amendments to the same member of the bill on 15 November 2005. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 1. Draft budget law. In my amendment, I asked that part of the funds, which was designated as surpluses, redistributions, for the following users: for pension, disability and social funds donations, for the defence of the country and for subsidies in agriculture. The government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected my amendment, with reasons not in accordance with Article 26. The Budgetary System Act, which provides that the surplus set out in the Government's draft budget cannot be used to increase expenditure proposed in the budget. This is the consequence, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, whom we warned you about when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, where, in the provisions, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic put himself above the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and above the MPs. So what Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic found in his proposal cannot change the MPs. In any case, that provision of article 26. The budget system law is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as MPs are preventing them from doing their job, which is to pass laws. That's what it is when you have for Minister Mladjan Dinkic, because it is obvious that his ambition is to be above the law, to be above all else, to act like a monarch. The question is, is his surplus real or fictitious? It's known at all, when someone says surplus -- it's believed to have excess resources. Then the state defines those funds - either further investment in the economy, infrastructure, etc., or - if we have extra money, why not reform the tax system and relieve the citizens of certain tax duties. However, none of this is in this draft budget law. So, only the goal and desire of the proposings of this budget is to show through this surplus that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing its job well. Where does a surplus in the draft budget bill come from? Since the 2005 budget was passed, we have warned the Government of the Republic of Serbia that by the degree of the Law on Value Added Tax that there will be a number of harmful consequences for citizens and businesses. One of these is an increase in the price of goods of broad consumption, an increase in fiscal giving, a further burden on the economy. As a result, we had inflation that was above planned and budget rebalance for 2005, where suddenly some surplus funds appeared. Where did that surplus come from anyway? The surplus begins with those goods and services that have never been taxed. In the first place, it comes from value added tax on agricultural and agricultural products, to re-promaterials such as seed goods, savings and plant protection products. That's never been paid a tax before. Since this government started doing its job, that tax has begun to be paid. Taxes have begun to pay for municipal activities that are public income, however, at a slightly lower rate - of eight percent. But it's never happened before that people pay taxes on ordinary tap water. As a result of these tax burdens, we have surpluses, alleged inflation, and we have a more difficult material position for the population. Furthermore, for the first time in one draft of the budget law, there is no donation. The question arises what about these strong friends of yours who have promised, if you come to power, that there will be a donation; if the SRS comes, no donation, you will be in isolation, etc. We see, as far as donations are concerned, that it was a simple, colorful lie in the 2003 pre-election campaign. Not a single item here is a donation. The finance minister goes on in that story and claims that because of the favourable tax policy that's going on here in our country, instead of donations, we're going to get investment. It still hasn't exactly explained where these investments were, because when someone invests, there's a significant increase in productivity, if not at least an increase in employment, then there's a halt in the number of unemployed in the country. However, since you are in power, the number of unemployed has increased from day to day. Where did those investment funds go? Does he really have them? Or the alleged investments here are already deployed in the next article, which says the state will be in debt through counterguarantees. In Article 5 - the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the basis of four loans, and again in the next position, in the same article, it is said again that the European Bank, now at the amount of five loans, will be in charge of the state. Whether foreign investments are loans taken by domestic public enterprises, which are granted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When someone invests something, foreign investment, it means that someone from abroad came, built a factory, bought some domestic, through investments improved its equipment, technological equipment, number of workers, productivity, shifted to exports, etc. There's no such thing here. All we have here is further foreign banks, which are called investments. It's investment, but domestic with foreign debts, we owe some money. Maybe we didn't have to go abroad. Maybe some domestic bank could have done it. However, they have already sold the National Savings Bank, but were constantly present here on the market, both Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, who stole much more money from the people than we will get from the French bank. Furthermore, it is said that there are already funds in the budget to increase pensions and that it will repay the debt to pensioners of 45 billion dinars, but it can't be done at once, because pressure will be put on the charge and demand of goods, on foreign exchange reserves, so we won't be able to withstand that pressure, inflation will occur, change in the rate of dinars, etc. Already in one of its next arguments, the finance minister argues that the NBS has a currency reserve of 5.3 billion, which means it covers 260% of the total cash mass on the market or 2.6 times more foreign exchange reserves than the total currency mass expressed in dinars on the market and claims that even if we don't get another single dollar, not one single euro, 5-6 months we'll be able to cover imports of wide-use goods. This is what our foreign exchange reserves are used for - so that the import lobby can do its job uninterruptedly, to import money from the side, to occasionally create certain inflationary shocks, to change the course of the dinar, and in return we won't be able to pay back pensions to pensioners, so that the import lobby, which is also present and closer to the government of the Republic of Serbia, can simply work uninterruptedly. Mr. Secretary's claim that even for the military, he's increased the funds and that's significant, for receiving soldiers, so the officers who work in the SCG army are at least ridiculous. When it comes to wages, I'm not saying that an elder's salary should not be increased. Certainly, because their material position is extremely difficult, and it is known that even members of our army are working under difficult conditions. However, the question arises whether we have more of that institution called the military, whether these funds that have been increased are quite sufficient, we are technologically lagging behind, under the pretext of reforming the army, approaching Euro-Atlantic integration. Simply, G17 plus two ways, first through high-ranking G17 plus Davinic, former defence minister, and the Ministry of Finance, destroy the army of the state community because the facilities are being sold out because the equipment is being sold out. Very little is invested in modernization, and even very little is invested in training new elders and members of the army, so we have a situation where the pitometres of the most sensitive and sophisticated part of the army, the Air Force and the PSC, for example, don't have months of fuel in planes to fly into training. Then we're surprised at all kinds of accidents and accidents, that our soldiers are killing each other, etc. All these are the consequences of a policy that does not serve the state or the citizens, but only those who bombed us in 1999. In any case, this draft budget law is not good, because this alleged surplus has been directed exclusively to pay off old debts, which you have claimed in election campaigns that have been written off, have now suddenly appeared, and new government and citizens' debts, and from investments, from the development budget, as you say, without the planned funds for the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, there is certainly nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22106	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why should this amendment be supported on article 1 of Mr. Arsic? There are several reasons. It is quite said, however, I would especially stress when it comes to excise duties. We must bear in mind that, if it enters the EU, we know that four years before EU entry, all countries are obliged to equalise excise duties, both imports and exports to equalise. However, in Europe, excise duties are 57%, with us 28%, unfortunately, which means that Mr Dinkic absolutely favors tobacco importers here, thus jeopardising our domestic market and domestic customers. What do I mean? It's no accident that on the agenda of the previous session we had that tobacco law. It is clear that a visit to Japan by Mr. Minister was not a coincidence, because it is a "Japan Tabaco", which is to buy a tobacco factory in Senta, where the very interest is therefore the inflow of Japanese cigarettes on our market, through these favourable excises. He absolutely favors the tobacco mafia. Therefore, there are very expressed personal interests and the state's interest is not seen. If we look objectively, through these excises, the state is at an annual level of a billion euros to damage. If we look at it in five years, gentlemen, we're hurting an entire budget. For such a poor country, it is truly a disaster and scandal. You should also say about this so-called surplus. Privatization-tacunization. Of course it is not properly divided and that Mr Dinkic behaves utterly in this area. What do I mean? His stay in Japan and Japan Tabaco must enter our market, make a profit. Who are we jeopardizing that way? It is the poorest layer of society: workers, peasants, police, professors, etc., people who are on the verge of existence. Of course foreign investors are favored in this case, I mean the tobacco mafia that dominates. We are saying that we will join the EU very soon. However, in this way, the minister acts in a non-domestic manner, we cannot expect. Also, the debate that was about the budget, in principle, we saw in the afternoons, when usually the most watched, was a dozen MPs, which shows how inconclusive there is in the debate when it comes to the budget. (President: You're out of time. ) Also, a small number of amendments that have been submitted also says that this is a kind of inconclusion in the further discussion of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22108	Mr. Krasic, were you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22109	Mr. Chairman, breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is offensive for the amendment applicant, for the entire Serbian Radical Party. First, an individual with the Serbian Radical Party's badge, and you all know he's gone. The other thing is, he's playing a dirty game here. He's a player here who spoils our amendments. Japan Tabako is present in this country long ago, especially the moment Stanko Subotić Cane bought the tobacco factory in Vranje and now this one dissuades our amendment and everything we talked about about excises and brings confusion. It is not possible that the Serbian Radical Party does not know what is happening in this country. So let the individual come and here explains our amendment and someone can get the impression that he's in for it. He'd take off his badge and leave this room. We will always call when someone comes to pollute the Serbian Radical Party's amendment to create a confusion among some people. We attack Dinkic, we make an argument, we accuse, we always try to make an argument, but what this individual put out here for our amendment has nothing to do with the Serbian Radical Party and it has nothing to do with the motives for which we have submitted this amendment. Please, when you identify yourself on this amendment, bear in mind only what Mr. Arsic said about this amendment. What this individual said, don't take it into consideration. When he could swear in church, then it means clearly that it's a pathological lie, a pathological ability to survive. How come you're not ashamed to answer that? How dare you hold the badge of the Serbian Radical Party? What are you playing, some gentleman here? Cheated on the Serbian Radical Party, cheated on voters, cheated on the Serbian Orthodox Church, cheated on his loved ones and his family, and you have some sense of coming here and polluting the atmosphere and these amendments, the explanation we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22110	Mr Krasic, I ask you to pay your respects to the MPs and you, too, Mr Stevanovic, have a word. Mr Krasic, you asked for the first line, then according to the Rules of Procedure, so you finally came out to explain your dating by hurting the Serbian Radical Party, etc. how you've been exposed. Mr. Stevanović is mentioned, he has the right to respond to your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22111	Mr Krasic was offended as if I had personally offended him, not Dinkic, and I was very surprised. The other thing, this same gentleman was during his ministry a pretty good profiter, he got an apartment in that time, so now he wants to accuse me of being unfair, of being a sinner to God. I'm pure and honest with God. I know who wronged and why I got out of the party. There's no need for this speaker to say, because about those I've been with for 14 years, I don't want to say anything bad, but that same man who wants to spit me out, he's far above sinfulness to God. So, I'm clean and honest and I can look anyone in the face because of my withdrawal from the party. I have a high opinion on the Serbian Radical Party and MPs, they are honorable people, but individuals have made some failures, so I stepped out of the party, I don't want to talk about it. The same one who tries to spit me out with God to call, gentlemen, that went well during his ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22112	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica have shown that they like to steal parliamentary mandates, to like to kidnap, and if you thought that any individual in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would mention for any reason you were wrong. Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica are big thieves, they start stealing each other's mandates, and then they keep doing it. First, the Democratic Party, Boris Tadic, tried to steal the mandate of the Democratic Party of Serbia, was Dragisa Djokovic's mandate. They wanted to do it in a strange way, so I finally see that they're complaining and trying to prove that the mandate belongs to them, even though that man wasn't on the DSS list, but on the DSS list. Today, it is obvious that the government in Serbia, consisting of DSS, G17, SPO, NS, SDP, SPS, is trying to steal a mandate from the SRS. Maybe you did it, maybe you did it. What do you get by what you think? Now they're going to fight. No, we have no one to fight with. We will answer to you what thieves Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica are like. They're important here, not the ones you're going to push to say in your name what they can't. Someone's trying to say something bad about Zoran Krasic, so you're laughing at mice one way, you're talking - we're just lucky somebody's gonna tell them something now. Come out and say it. That's what those who saw Zoran Krasic with the greatest respect and spoke of him with all due respect yesterday. They never said anything at any party forum, or anywhere else, about Zoran Krasic, and they have nothing to say. It's about an extremely honorable man. It's about a good man and a good lawyer. Today, Zoran Krasic is in the way of Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica and the big thieves, together with Bogoljub Karic. You all get together in one big flock, we absolutely don't mind. Meet once all together and let everyone in Serbia know, on one side are all you, Tadic, Kostunica, Canak, Karic, Kasa, Dačić, Ugljanin, Dinkic, Velja Ilic, Vuk Draskovic, Vesna Pesic, Zarko Korac, all on one side. Make a new DOS, you don't know what you're going to do, you don't know what a locomotive costs you as a sweater, you can do whatever you want with Serbia because you think you're very smart, you think you can say what you want, so on the TV you're going to bring Bogoljub Karic, what's the name of that political sociologist, says - scum one, he's going to talk about fascism in Serbia and I don't even know what it is about the SRS. You don't think anyone can answer that. As you can see, we are laughing, rather than being polite, and we see that we are not causing any further political conflicts in Serbia. You want conflicts, you want them, you promise us war. You are a great authority, all of you, Tadic, Kostunica, Canak, Kasa, Dinkic, everyone else, you are all a great power, and we are in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22114	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22115	I did. You want war, you want to kill us, what do you want? Maybe, but let me tell you right now that you're not gonna make it, and now I promise you one thing. In every place in Serbia, in every village, in every village, in every city, we will defend the right to have a different idea, to the existence of an SRS, and we will defeat you everywhere, in every village, in every village and in every city.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22116	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22117	It's Article 104. Mr. Chairman, you haven't figured out what I've been telling you. I did not just come out here to deny the right of an MP to speak his mind, nor do I intend to seek such a thing, for I think it is quite different that it is necessary in the Assembly to hear the views of all MPs on all matters as often as possible. You know for a fact that I advocate that political life in Serbia is mainly being conducted in this room, not in the halls and on TV B29 and elsewhere. So I don't forbid anyone here to talk, but today is the scenario of those who exercise power, because they don't have a proper argument to answer our amendments and they want to reverse the debate, because in the past two days they've experienced a kind of political knockout. Then he resorts to one manner, this individual came out with an SRS badge, that's offensive. Those people who watch this transmission see the badge of the SRS and can think that this man is making SRS views. Those aren't SRS attitudes. He will come out on every SRS amendment because they gave him such a task today. I don't want to discuss some personal properties, etc., that's irrelevant. There's an institution, there's organs that handle it, but you've seen what the script is prepared for today. The scenario to devalue, degrade what we criticise in this budget and these points that follow, by some side activities, marginal issues and by challenging conflicts to reverse the debate. An orchestrated attack on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been under way for months. Listen B92, watch B92 TV, watch Karic's TV. There are MPs everywhere, there is a National Assembly everywhere. That's why we want order to be introduced and let's say, so I just said, whoever came out to talk about the amendment to Veroljub Arsic, talked from the wrong positions, to make an impression to the audience that it was the position of the SRS. The fact that this person with the SRS badge, and it has nothing to do with the SRS, came out and said here, it has nothing to do with the SRS. It is offensive for this group of MPs who are constantly attending meetings of the National Assembly. That's the injury I was talking about. I'm warning you, you'll see, about every amendment, because that's the scenario. It's got to stop the SRS somehow. He can't rule anymore, because he gets political knockouts, some journalists can't do it anymore, so some professors are getting married, and now we're going in line. More polls, and there's gonna be a lot of things. We're in advance telling you what the script is. That scenario they prepared was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22118	Mr. Krasic, I really don't know anything about that scenario. You said yourself that I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Since we don't even know who made the script and insulted the National Assembly and hurt the Rules of Procedure, I really don't know how you think we're going to plead on this injury to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Velimir Simonovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22119	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it's not my custom to report for damages to the Rules of Procedure and advertising, etc., replicas, this time I can't stand it. Do we have MPs who make this majority of the government to endure every day such terrible insults? To say that Kostunica is a thief and that he steals mandates, it is to that extent incorrect and does not deserve any comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22120	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm used to this by Mr. Albianic and he usually threatens to go out for a pay phone, and I didn't expect Mr. Simonovic to do what to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I said it was nice everything you came up with, that everything you do every day is nice that when you adopt resolutions and declarations for those who have thrown Serbs under the ice and killed them, so what kind of resolution you've adopted, not fascists, are not Nazis; so it's a good thing that you force on your media and television people who are going to say, so it's not so bad, and I'm talking about these Hongweeds, old people are 75, 80 years old, are we going to defend the old people? These are not the Nazis who killed hundreds of Serbs in January and February 1942 in Serbia, and now they have written in Sentomas, only because Orthodox religions belong to another people, but they are the old ones. Are you going to accuse the SRS, because I guess we're just asking to be on our own and nothing else, and that's the problem. Then you'll call that scum on your TVs. You don't know where he is anymore, at B92, to BK TV, Pink or RTS, wherever you want. Every one of these, and you know what his condition is: to come and say something against the SRS, because these are people of muscle courage -- I want to come, but don't be some radical on the show, it's their only condition. That's the one thing they know how to say. Like Mr. Simonovic. He comes out and says one sentence, and then he runs out. They're about at that level. Then they think no one can tell us anything. Well, as you can see, we're not afraid of you at all. You're gonna take our mandates. You begged us when it came to Djokovic, act in accordance with the law. We tell you, don't beg us, we will act in harmony with morality and law. Is that what happened? In the halls, you chased us here, and you hung all over the place, and now you're laughing. It's nice because you got another term for your majority and then offended, I won't take it. Oh, no, you don't. Why, did we take your mandate, did we ever steal your mandate and come out and tell it to you from the DSS? Tell me if we've ever stolen one mandate from the SRS in 15 years. Anyone, not you. Tell us if we ever stole a mandate from anyone. Why don't you come out and tell us that? Not like this. Oh, that's nice. Now we're gonna have a good time, sweetheart. It can't be like that. You think in Serbia you can spend a hundred years the same story that you're going through. We'll all, it's just important that radicals don't rule and that's your only philosophy, that's all you can go out with in front of Serbian citizens. The only thing you can say, and the worse the MPs are boasting, we can't steal from this and from that, we have to go from the radicals, you brag about it. As for the MPs and the votes, you have the radicals to steal, but here I am telling you, next time there will be so many of them that I don't know how you steal, so as you steal today in power, you load the shovels instead of putting your pockets in your pockets, because your pockets are long gone, and now you're shoveling, and in trucks, shovels, trucks to carry and to steal votes will be so many that you won't be able to steal them. If you knew anything else, we were in the SRS for the last two years, and we'll always watch that we're, I'd say, one serious, correct and responsible opposition. We have never threatened strikes, demonstrations, or any kind of violence, or by bringing into an unpleasant situation the MPs of the people because of what we can do in front of the National Assembly to organize. Do you think we can't get you 10 or 20 or 50,000 people, do you think we can't do that? We can do it by any law. Do you think you'd be comfortable going out in front of the people and explaining how you're loading all this stuff with shovels in trucks? No, dear friends of the government. But, let me tell you why, take care of what you do, because it is a beating in your hands, the beating is in your hands, and if you want the knife and the cake, anyway, but keep in mind one thing – and we never wanted to warn you, we never wanted to tell you, because we will not in the same way as others who came to power to come to power, we will not burn down the Assembly, we will not lynch Dragan Milanovic, we will not lynch anyone, because everyone has a right to their own position and political opinion – do not forget that each of the beatings has two ends. And don't look too happy, because you took away something they worked on in the election fair and square. People voted for the list of SRS - Vojislav Seselj, under number 1. Tomislav Nikolic. They didn't even see any other names. It wasn't enough for you, but you think, we're just fine now, now we're gonna enjoy it, enjoy it all you want, I just want to tell you that you know well that according to the research that I got last night, and you know that everyone in this room that I know best in Serbia, with two or three more people, all the research and what's going on, that the ratings of the SRS is even bigger, and that these little, these political mice, the ratings are getting lower and falling from day to day. See that this congregation of many of you remember well, because the only opportunity to see it in the future for many of you is to come to the open door on Saturdays or take a picture in front of you as a postcard, and as MPs you will hardly ever see again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22122	National MP Vladimir Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22123	Mr. Vucicou, it is more important for the DSS to have correct relations with the SRS than those two mandates. You can be sure of that. Because of the difficult and dramatic negotiations that Serbia expects about Kosovo, because of the state community, because of the constitution, not to mention, we have no idea that we are stealing the mandates of the SRS. Because of democracy in Serbia, we have no idea, neither do we have ties to those two mandates, nor in some dramatic votes coming into the future, I don't know which will be, those two mandates of Vojislav Kostunica need. We don't need power at that price, and that's what Milos Aligrudic said more than once. Please don't say that, because none of us in the DSS will ever say that any radical is a thief, and especially not for Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic or you. Some level has to stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22124	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22125	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when you wish well to your country, when you go to reach a general consensus on key national and state issues, such as the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, then you must all segments in order for the state to function uninterruptedly to look that way. It is impossible then, with the completely unbalanced budget of the finance minister coming up for 2006, because, as is the great anxiety and anxiety of all of us and all of Serbia's citizens about protecting the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, it is a great desire and anxiety for all citizens to enter the next budget 2006 and especially how to get out of this one. Because all statistics show that the existence of our citizens is getting worse every day and the minister himself admitted that inflation in this year is far from the expected projection he and Governor Jelasic had. The rate of the dinar, with all other disturbances in our market, is largely a real picture of the situation that on this fluctuating stock exchange, 86 dinar ratios for one euro, as it is already today, is not because there is no production and no new value is created, in order to strengthen the foreign exchange reserves and to strengthen the rate of dinar above all, only through an increase in production, so that products that are competitive and produced on our market are ready for export. However, what can I say when in this country, despite all these problems compared to our domestic currency, the preferences our country has for certain agricultural products are not used for certain types of metal. It's like you're afraid of it. So, from that sugar affair and from the approval of Miroljub Labus two years ago, you seem to have forgotten all the favourable external trade arrangements that Serbia-Montenegro has, or Serbia and the state do not use at all. It is true that Mladjan Dinkic said that the conditions were created by voting on one declaration and changing the customs law to a much higher level to raise the textile industry and production. I'll tell you on the case of a paracynautical station or the Kragujeva case on December 22nd. Even if the new owner comes, and Paracino is the new owner, it is one Italian company, along with all the debts found there and with the extraction of equipment by the former DOS director's lobby, there is nothing left. It takes a lot of time and who knows how many such resolutions for the textile industry to start producing, which is one of the industries that used to have an important place in the gross social product. Agriculture affects 21%, primary agricultural production, and the food industry regarding the processing of agricultural products with over 25% in the overall structure of our economy. Where are these products on the European world market? They're gone. On the contrary, we have what counterpart Krasic was talking about, and this amendment is just a continuation of the amendment he submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we have a very low level of current balance as regards our currency, which I was already talking about, and we have one huge internal over-indebted, the figure reaches up to 11 billion euros at this point and the question is, by the end of the year, someone will have to come out with this data, what it is, and hence an incredible situation for further citizens to recover, in an individual financial sense, and not to say, state. In developed world countries such as Canada, when the end of the year comes and it is announced that the internal debt of citizens to banks, because it is a huge country, with a huge number of inhabitants, is large, high and certainly negligible in percentages compared to these 11 billion euros, how much our internal debt currently stands, then in the polls of those citizens, when they examine and who have a debt on their credit cards what their biggest dream in life is, they say, to get rid of it. We now come to two and a half billion foreign exchange savings, reportedly in banks, which Mladjan Dinkic spoke of, i.e. two billion and 70 million. He would have to explain to us in the overall structure, and since he probably had co-operation with both banks and the banks' associations, when he used to put bank laws like this in the process, whether it was foreign exchange savings or whether it was a mandatory deposit. And it's more likely to be because the information I received from one of the largest banks, which operate as foreign, or domestic on our market, and which has an 80 percent business with the population sector, is actually a mandatory deposit on credit, which probably many of you have, less than or greater. Is this short-term cash credit for which the largest number of citizens each day apply and calls on people from the state media, from the billboard to come as soon as possible, is very fast and efficient, but is not said to be the amount of interest. That's what you see when you get there. On a two-year loan of 2. 1,000 to 5,000 euros, effective annual interest is 24%. If that deadline pays off for five years, you can see that you've only been paying the bank interest for three years. It's terribly expensive loans. Minister Dinkic also spoke of housing loans, but in terms of convenience, only under certain conditions can it be talked about the loans the state gives through the National Corporation. It's a limited number with certain banks that signed the contract. I think this Vojvodjanska Banka, I think Raiffeisen Banka has done it among the first, maybe Meridian Banka, but you come to other legal barriers, first of all, those concerning mortgage obligations, all the conditions you have to meet, which are truly amazing. Only they don't ask you for a shoe number and you're not able to fill out a form to compete. And to get all that, and to take a first-row mortgage, and to find later some collateral for the replacement, it's not worth it, because there are only 1,500 families in Serbia in the drum, and that problem has several hundred thousand people. Why were we talking, now we're doing it in Novi Sad, why was it Mr. Vukic's pre-election program for mayor? That it has to be built, but not at suchfortified prices, as is now an amazing square meter in Kragujevac, which has failed, of 1,200 or 1,300 euros in apartment, but at prices, as you have the case of Novi Sad, where new construction costs, incredible compared to Kragujevac, 600 euros for a new meter flat. In that sense, the minister lied when he said that the IMF's conditions and what he, in a poor negotiating position, agreed to as a couple of exeleans of priorities, which were the payment of debt to pensioners and the reduction of public spending, reductions in public enterprises, were only the final conditions and that this was the last thing he would do with the IMF. He says, "I'm going to finish it." That three-year arrangement was extended until the end of May, and in May he told us it was going to be much faster, and now we're coming by the end of the year, but it's just not true. And in the next 2006, according to the Staf Monitoring system, that is, monitoring the execution of each position and item, you will not be able to do anything without investing in production and investing in social programs, which would have a visible effect. That is why, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed, as in any good economy, when you already have such an income side, I have to make a later amendment to Article 6 to look back on how there have been this many incomes and what are the interventions and from whom, with balance between expenditure and income – with proper use, without seizing, without seizing, without setting up a tender, without all these giving of unnecessary, without buying the rich and luxury rolling stock of Boris Tadic and the National Office, without giving to various NGOs, which many, which are directly working and directed against the interests of the state and the people, are just some of the items. – it is possible to do more in the social programme. The fact that they got Bor, Kragujevac and Vranje on the spoon is nothing. Three months were paid for a one-time aid to workers in Kragujevac. You want to do that and promise in 2006? When did she start? In April with 15,000 dinars, then one phase, and another in late May, only in September until the end. Where is the renewal of production and where is the problem of the unemployed? You just can't do it that way. This budget is projected at another very sensitive moment. The budget is for 2006, when Kosovo and Metohija's fate will be resolved, relations in the state union between Serbia-Montenegro and the growing aspirations that the separatist regime has led with Milo Djukanovic, all of which will be such a confusing situation, which favours the West, and above all Americans, the World Bank and the IMF, another basis to continue with the pressures in the first quarter. The projection of this budget according to the IMF model, with a completely pointless withdrawal of 40 billion surpluses, while on the other hand the citizens who did not receive neither housing loans, nor loans for entrepreneurship, to start production, have them, but that is so small, and then you will use budget funds to give a counterguarantee, to invent some new agencies, that is completely pointless. When a full reconstruction is done, i.e. the transmutation of this budget with income from the SRS, as we did from the first, and through the second amendment, we come up with some acceptable solution, knowing that many other mechanisms are needed to, in addition to the need to balance both income and expenditure sides in such a way, be at the same level as the nominal amount, as I suggested. The government gives me the answer that she doesn't understand why I'm doing it. Just because of the household behavior and because I'm thinking about what's going on with all these people who were also promised last year, they were left behind. You only have small funds for all those intentions, and none of that matters. Tell Mladjan Dinkic, if he doesn't show up today, you from G17 tell him today during the debate under these laws that it's pathetic and miserable that he said when he was putting up with the exposés, that more than 7,000 people voluntarily left their jobs in the Yugoslav Army. More than 700 people and in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, and in Zubin Potok municipality, Leposavic, not to mention those who are still in much more perilous situation, because they are in the so-called. The enclaves completely surrounded by Shiptar terrorists and occupiers were fired. These people also appeared to Ljubomiru Kragovic, and colleagues from the SRS and myself personally to say that the state has such a relationship with them, because it doesn't matter what happens. These people were big, not just what kind of, huge security for the locals of all these municipalities and villages, because they knew, because they were highly professional, although they couldn't even have a slingshot, let alone weapons, they were completely disarmed, but they were psychologically very important for their presence there and that the state paid them, as it proved in the nights between 17 and 19 March 2003. And then, especially from 1999 to 2001, when the Cypriot terrorists, assisted by the Kosovo Protection Corps, set out to kill Serbian women and children. Think about what the state's strategic interest is, why all these months through all these laws we've been saying: invest in health care, invest in education, and not according to the model of Americanization of education, accepting everything that's written in the Bologna Declaration, you see what it all comes down to. After a month, professors from all universities complain. You invest in production, it's impossible to do that if you still have these parasites on your budget and the surplus that was supposed to be used, if there's already so much interference, for direct production and exports, so that in the next year, in this respect, you can make bigger shifts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22126	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22127	Thank you. I'm not a big financial expert, but in a few sentences, I'll remind the citizens of Serbia of some basic information. Is Serbia today a poor country? Yes, it is. In Serbia today, according to World Bank estimates and polls conducted among Serbia's population, between 10 per cent and 20 per cent of people are poor. In the previous period, during which an SRS MP spoke before me, supported or ruled, there were 70 percent of people poor. It's official statistics. Yesterday many MPs here quoted the World Bank and its allegations, so I will take that opportunity. The social gross product fell by 50% between 1991 and 1994. After 1998 to 2000, it fell by an additional 30%. We now have a situation where the gross social product last year increased over 8%; this year, at a half-year level of 6.1% and projected expectations for social product growth in the following year are about five percent. The poverty reduction strategy says -- in order to reduce poverty in Serbia, we must have a steady sustainable growth of the gross social product to 4.5-5%. They're indicators, they're facts. No citizen in Serbia can expect, following such a collapse of economy and such poverty in all areas, as health, education and all other areas are mentioned, to be drastically better in Serbia in a few years. The fact is, unlike the fall of about 80 percent of production, we now have the growth of social gross product. It should be noted that wages over the past year have increased about seven percent in the economy, and in the out-of-economics only 1.50-1.60 percent. So in the economy, wages grow, and that's the good news; production grows, and that's the good news; the economy is stable, and that's the good news; foreign reserves are stable, and that's the good news. Still Serbian citizens do not have a satisfactory standard and that is bad news. They can only have it by keeping the economy stable and making these economic indicators such as climates where it will be possible to invest, foreign investors and, of course, domestic investors have an interest in developing the Serbian economy. That's what the facts are, and the rest are political stories. It's easy to tell the poor that we stand up for him, it's undeniable. We all stand for it, but we should also talk about facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22128	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22129	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've heard a lot of good news, just one bad one. It would be good if everything were like that, but I don't think the citizens of Serbia have that impression. When we talk about data, first of all, let's not mix different parameters about the decline and growth of industrial production, the gross social product, the full macroeconomic situation, the state of foreign reserves, etc., but to go one by one. First of all, you say no one can expect drastic changes, no one can expect to be drastically better after the big crash. No one ever said that the condition was ideal or that it was good. Just because it was bad, people voted differently and wanted the miracle workers who promised them salvation. They wanted those who said only a few things to change, especially everything that was written in the book "Economics of Destruction", and it was promised that everything would be completely different, that for Serbian citizens it would be incomparably easier and incomparably better. Today, the citizens of Serbia are not at all easier and are not much better. They are better off in that sense, not thanks to us, but thanks to the aggressors, those who attacked our country, do not have to listen to 78 days of attack on Serbia, but they can listen to it tomorrow, if anyone thinks of attacking Serbia. So it doesn't depend much on you, not on anyone in Serbia, but on someone who could or would want to commit aggression on our country and our people. Then a large business cycle was launched, a significant production was raised at that level that today you are unable to move the level of industrial production by one or two percent compared to the previous year; you even have a decline of two percent. Whatever that fall, you say it is, but it's the best year since I don't know how many years ago, so it's the fall, otherwise it's not a real fall. I don't know what should be compared to - 1924, 1935, what year last century? All in all, today we have an economy that has been handled by the World Bank and the IMF's orders. There is not much to decide about, nor much to ask, nor is there a significant role for you. The role of government today is very important in this country only in how much they're going to steal, how much they're going to kidnap, how much they're going to participate, how many shovels they're going to dive into trucks. The role of the government is significant in this regard. All this is happening far from the eyes of the government and far from their influence. Don't lie too much, it's the truth, and you all know it. When you say - Serbian citizens know that we will live better, we just need a little more time, my question is: do you need an 80-year term as Tito? To write a constitution for those who have ruled since 5 October 2000 that they should rule until 2050, because no one can replace them? Maybe someone can, if anyone likes it, but they can't be the ones they've replaced. That's possible. I see that in Serbia you have invented a term: transition justice. You're more educated than that, everyone's educated, but those who prefer to read this literature have a magazine now, their main columnist is Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, and I don't know who else, which is transition justice. What does that mean? You've given yourself the right to do whatever you want, that the law is not the same for everyone. Look at one thing in principle, it has nothing to do with anything. In recent days, it's been said that one person has committed some crime, but we don't like what this crime has committed, and we don't like it very much, even though the decriminalization of the crime has not been committed, everyone in this country will accept it, to apologize. What about the other kids? What about the other young men? What about the other people? Is the law equal to everything? Is that equality in front of the law in this country? What are you talking about? This is your transition justice. Some will answer for the bonuses shared by workers, and some will not answer for the robbery of tens of millions of euros in the National Savings or other firms. It's transition justice. That's what you're talking about. What happens tomorrow? We hope to be able to build more. In the past five years, this government in Serbia has not built a single bridge. I don't know exactly, if I don't mind particularly the MPs from the central part of Šumadija, in a word, neither does Lepenica, neither is Gruža, let's say a small river, not far from Kragujevac, was built at the time of Djindjic's government, one magnificent bridge of 2.5 metres; two and a half meters of semi-wood structure, half stone. Some foreign ambassadors also came to the opening, the minister came to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Marija Rushet. It was the largest construction venture by the government of the Republic of Serbia. When you see all this and you hear it and you know it, then I'd say you don't have much to brag about. On the other hand, do not marvel at the success that privates achieve. (President: You're out of time. ) Don’t get cocky and say that we have a growth in production when it’s born and when farmers, when peasants do their job in the best possible way. Here, this year is worse than the last one, and you have a production drop. What don't you say now? It's our fault. No, but you're going to say, we're having trouble with the crops. It's the essence of things. Of course, the government is there to allow farmers to have good conditions, that they can do everything in their power to increase production. What did the government do anywhere, in any way? (Chairman: Please bring the end) I'm done. You're boasting about our budget surplus. What did you do with that budget surplus? Nothing. The budget surplus does not exist for Serbian citizens. They won't see. So we cut the skin off from the back of the people, to those who do business, we took away everything we could, but we didn't bring it back to the people, to the pensioners, to the poor. Not to talk about them. We didn't return it to the economy, we didn't subsidize agricultural production, we didn't make a credit agricultural bank, we didn't make it a state-owned, like the National Savings Bank, so in the meantime it wouldn't be the "left hand of the right pocket", so it all disappeared from state property. That's what we didn't do. That's what we're different about. Walk the cities of Serbia, there are many who live luxuriously today, there are many who will tell you to enjoy it. When I say a lot of 5-10%, maybe 15%, but you know how much of the citizens of Serbia who can barely handle the end. It's not 10% and 20% it's 50-60% of people who can't get on the bus to get to Batajnica, because they have to fight for three hours, to wait in line to get on a bus, who can't pay for a bus or a train ticket, who spend everything they make on their way to work and back, barely kids can eat. How many grandparents you have who can't buy their grandkids a bag or even more for chocolate. It's not exactly the pink situation you wanted to present and it's not 10-20% poor, it's more than 50% poor in Serbia, unfortunately. I'll finish, Mr. Michaelovich, I'm sorry. I know you have a problem that we'll all face when we come to power. I know that we have a consciousness in our society, in which everyone expected capitalism, and they counted on them to be capitalists without anyone working for capitalists. I know that and I don't want to criticize you. I will not demagoguely attack you at all, because tomorrow will be a problem for us and for everyone else. I know that best. Everyone saw American movies and everyone saw that there was a boss, and no one saw those thousands of workers, like these, who struggle and who work for minimum incomes and who live in difficult conditions. That's the problem this society is going to face. That kind of sobering must come, that's true, but whatever it is, we need to give these people who work to workers and peasants incomparably better conditions than they have today, so they can live differently than they do today. People really live on the edge of existence. Don't just go through downtown Belgrade, and there are a lot of poor people. Wherever you go to Serbia, you will see: undeniable ornaments, how many closed factories we have, that no one will open anything in Montenegro today, that we have places in Serbia where they will not give him a factory hall, no one will do anything, production for free to give him, will do nothing. All our money's moved to Belgrade, there's something else in Novi Sad, and there's nothing left, you see for yourself. A complete Belgradeisation of Serbia has been carried out. You have five factories out of Belgrade that you can say work for. What have we done to change this relationship a little, to spread it across Serbia? We used to have a country and city relationship 50-50, then 60-40, now we're 80-20. The village can no longer feed the city. I'm sorry, I overstepped and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22130	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22131	These days, I've often agreed with what the representatives of the SRS say. I really fully agree in one piece with what Mr. Vukitch was saying. It is true, it is completely irrelevant who will be in power, Serbia has problems. It is therefore important that Serbia has political stability and that it has a clearly drawn economic policy, and part of economic policy is that our development is sustainable. In order for it to be sustainable, it is impossible to grant subsidies to non-working enterprises, which do not generate income. It's one of the aspects of this budget we've been talking about these days. Mr. Vucic was talking about that some people have stolen things, that this is happening today, etc., and I totally agree with that, and I absolutely support that all those who have done it, whether they did it in the previous period or now, are subject to the fact of the law and that they are absolutely responsible for what they did. What we disagree on is my view that capital thefts were made in the previous period and that there was then a complete withdrawal of money from citizens, either through pyramid banks, whether through old foreign exchange savings, or through a loan for Serbia's rebirth and in various other ways. So that's what I'm saying, that Serbian citizens can't and shouldn't forget. As for the surplus, which is served by the surplus, whether it will be felt by the citizens of Serbia. Here, that's exactly how he'll feel. During one period of its development or underdevelopment, the country has made huge debts to abroad and its citizens. Those debts have to be paid back. It's not skin scratching from the back of citizens, it's a fair return to debts that we all, most likely, some by participating in supporting power, some by being citizens who couldn't do anything, we simply made those debts. We have to pay those debts back. We need to get them back abroad so we can have credibility as a country. We need to get them back to the citizens, so that we can have the credibility and trust of our citizens. We have to pay back those debts and one part of those debts will be recovered from the surplus. It will not be all, from surpluses will be financed other things, such as incentive export credits, such as scholarships to young talents and scientists. You can't argue that it is development and that it is a developmental pathway. You know that one of Serbia's major problems was just brain drain. Serbia needs to re-create its resources, and the basic resources of every country are people, and that's people who know how to do their jobs. As far as agriculture is concerned, I really cannot accept the criticism that it is not investing in agriculture and that it is not, above all, through subsidies that are only held in the area of agriculture, but also through development projects, or loans that are invested in the development of agriculture. As for the standard of Serbian citizens, I have already said that it is very low and very bad. I cannot agree with you that 50% of Serbian citizens are poor. Studies say there is 10% poor, but 20% of Serbian citizens live on the poverty line or near the poverty line. I'm not just moving downtown in Belgrade. Unlike you, I am not from Belgrade, I am from the south of Serbia, which is poor and I know very well how many poor citizens are. It's true that they're poor. I have to tell you, what the difference between the period when 70% of the poor were in Serbia and now that there are, to accept between 10% and 20%, is the fact that a medium layer was created that was completely destroyed over the previous years and that middle layer cannot be said to be extremely poor. So he exists now, and that's the strength and perspective of our development. Of course some live luxuriously and those who live luxuriously have acquired their wealth mostly in an illegal way or legally, but in a period where it was possible to do so, in conditions where you have an inflation of 330 million etc., some people could simply pour it into their pockets and it's quite clear. They then became rich and now live luxuriously. As for real indicators of standards, these are also official data, in 2000 for a single consumer basket it was necessary to spend three and a half average wages, and today it is one consumer basket, about one average salary, which is certainly not good because the salary should not be spent on basic needs only, it is not a good standard, but today it is one average salary, and in 2000 it was three and a half average salary. That's the facts. I think we can talk about this more, but I wouldn't really talk about it any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22132	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, something that's been said every time like it's being transferred to the SRS, although it's not said, but I'm obliged to say a few words about it. Approximately -- you are to blame for the pyramidal banks, Dafina, Jazda, the Revival Loan of Serbia, Karic's bank and others. As for the SRS, our insistence was formed by a survey committee in the Federal Assembly to examine the work of pyramid banks. We wrote a book, "What robs the left so he doesn't know the right." You can read, you have an edition of the Serbian Radical Party. We accused the government of it at that time in the most powerful way possible, because it was a big robbery and we did it back then, but today when a big robbery was committed through the National Savings, when a number of robberies were committed through the theft of electricity, through theft at NIS almost daily, and that's what we point to and that's what we're talking about and what we're going to keep talking about. That's our society's problem. Do you know that in the last three years, since there's been a crime in our criminal law enforcement, we have absolutely no convictions of corruption. So, three years since the amendments to the Criminal Code as we have it, there is nothing like it, and there seems to be no corruption in Serbia, and then we are surprised that we are in the world in the fight against corruption. Although I don't have to trust every international or non-governmental organization, but that's what citizens see at every turn. You say, I'm from Belgrade, you're from Leskovec. It's true, I'm on the road every day, and unlike some other people who think it's a big advantage that they're from some place, I don't think it's my advantage or my lack. As I love my Belgrade, so every Pyrocan loves his Pirot, Leskovčanin Leskovac, Kragujevac, and I don't think there's any difference between us, and I don't think you're better because of it, or that I'm better at it. For us Serbian radicals, every place is exactly the same and we have never made a difference between Banja Luka, Trebinj, Dale, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Leskovec or any other city. When you say, we don't see how many poor people there are. Every day, MPs in the National Assembly, and I can tell you that for myself, when you don't see me in this room, I'm in the National Assembly, I don't know where, but I've received one, two, five, ten citizens, a few parties, and they all have the same problem. They say someone closest to us died, we don't have enough to bury him. How can I help you? You know, just something if you can do it to help us, at least in a way. The second, the third, the fifth, the hundredth, because you have so many poor people, and you know how much someone needs to come down and beg for something like that, how much the poor and the poor are in bad shape. That's why I'm telling you that it's not the poor 10% and 20% on the edge, it's the poor 50% and 20% on the edge. The middle layer as if it doesn't exist. Look how the middle layer is lost and it's not just your fault, how slowly but surely it disappears and how the bigger differences are. In Belgrade, you have parts where people have 20 and 30 apartments in the most exclusive locations. It's not sold because they're holding a price that's not normal. Construction works with massage baths, the maximum price is 400 euros and may still be 250 euros at the most luxurious location in Belgrade, but he wants to earn 2,000 euros and then say - the market. No, master, the market is what you took and because you have hundreds of millions of euros and you can hold them and put them on a spoon, and the state won't take care of it, the city won't take care of it. How many times did Bogdanovic promise that we would build apartments that people would buy cheaply. It can be built for that money. People deal with it, and you know it, for 300 euros good construction, and 400 euros with massage baths, the most expensive building of 400 euros, but not to be for the poor, to be only for them to load their millions and to be very rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22134	Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22135	I'm done. You don't live in our country as well as you want to show it. Why is it that news that Serbia is said to be the leader of reforms, Serbia is the best on the globe in this, in that, is no longer coming to any attention and why citizens no longer comment. Because they know better than they do how they live, because they know what they go through every day from house to work and back. You've seen where promises were like that, how and how unfulfilled promises come back as boomerangs. He went this leader of the orange revolution of Juchenko to Paris at Shirak and got it on his nose, no help from the EU, they won't give them anything anymore, they've robbed everything, they've stolen it, they've promised the people prosperity, because they thought: they've done the CIA revolution, and now we're done with the job, and now Putin's some Janukovich or this one or that one will get 70% in the next election, and they'll wonder again. That's why we don't promise too much, and that's why I'm not attacking you for what I'm not going to attack you for and for what it's pointless to attack you for. I'm just saying that the fight against corruption must be incomparably more severe than it is today, I'm telling you that there must be no different approach to solving the problem, that people must be equal before the law, not that they have different treatments because you like someone, and someone doesn't like it, or that they are prosecuted by a captain, one or the one, and that they don't go after Dinkic and Davinic for the vestry affair, because Davinic will talk a lot, and Dinkic didn't know right away, and then he told us that he's been listening since June so he knows about the satellite affair. The state has lost 50m euros in new ones. For what? So they can give us that Bosnia and Kosovo can't be seen. What are we looking at? Arctic and Antarctica? This is very important to us, whether penguins are reproduced in a certain number or not. The only thing we need a satellite to do is not get a chance. That's the essence of everything I wanted to talk to you about. If we can cure ourselves from this disease, then in Serbia it will be easier, not much easier, but something easier and Serbian citizens will see the perspective. Today, Serbian citizens unfortunately have no hope. We'll be able to say that in Serbia, something better started when our ranks in front of the embassy are smaller, and I don't know if you know about the fact that in the last five years, two times as many people have gone since the '90s. By 2000, twice as many people from this country. When it shrinks, and when it changes, when people see hope and perspective in this country, we'll all be incomparably better off.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22136	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22137	This amendment, which I have submitted to Article 3, really makes one logical unity with previous amendments to the SRS, so if, Mr. Chairman, during the interpretation of this amendment I reach and some part relating to Articles 1 and 2 I hope you won't interrupt me, because this really does make some unity. What I'd like to say at the beginning. You know, it's very difficult from this pay phone to comment on someone's exposure. As a rule, we should face different opinions and attitudes on some issues. When the wrong facts come out, then the real replica loses its meaning. We just heard that because of this epochal surplus, other areas will develop, so the surplus will also be invested for scholarships, etc. I'm just saying, read Article 2. That's where the government wrote well that the surplus funds, absolutely all, are used to settle debts. That's what the government wrote. I didn't read it right. Here I read to you; the 2006 budget consists of 487 billion receipts, 448 expenditure and a budget surplus of 39.5 billion dinars. The receipts on the basis of the payment of the credit granted, etc., the next position, the payment of the debt of 47 billion will be made as follows, and the first indent, the funds resulting from the borrowing of 6.5 billion, and the appropriations of the budget surplus under Article 1, item 1, amounting to 39,569.212. That's the whole amount. Like it's not? Exactly 39,569.212. Then you don't read the same thing. Article 2. Look what's written here. I don't know where you read. Oh, well, good. What does Article 3 apply to? It refers to the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the state union. It refers to the amount of funds allocated to the military, or to the state community. You know it. The sum of these funds is intended for Serbia-Montenegro's military. We ask the amendment to increase that amount by 55,300,000 and to make it 69 billion and 955 million. The government now in response to why it does not accept this amendment says: there is something wrong, because you did not say where to strip, what to do, how to change. Our amendments to Articles 1 and 2 with this amendment make up one whole. It is evident that through the redistribution of funds, space is created for the transfer of these funds to the state community. Now that I don't get into those details, since it doesn't matter, the government has a stand for everything -- it refuses, so it's going to refuse. There's something going on about this surplus again. Now I'd like to read you an international standard, as defined by the deficit and surplus. It's an international standard. Let's say, it is said, the budget surplus is allocated on the basis of the Assembly's decision, i.e. the municipality's or cities, since there are opportunities for local levels to have it. The budget deficit is financed by borrowing in the country or abroad as regulated by members, etc. So this methodology of showing surpluses, as it is written in this bill, does not exist on the globe of the Earth. It doesn't exist. If this virtual surplus is supposed to be used to repay debts, then it's given as one position and it's some likely commitment and it's planned. Then there's no talking about any surplus. The surplus, as a notion, was inserted here to publicly verify success. Whose success? IMF. Now, why are we asking to increase these funds for the state union? Because of the army. I guess we all agree that the military is in an uninvited material position. Now I'm going to make a descriptive statement of some facts. Of course, I'll try not to make it a finding, but that they're based on something. What our army has experienced. Our army experienced that the first-class captain, who worked in Zagreb and lived in Zagreb, was an aggressor, and then had to move, to reach Belgrade and Serbia. By the way, not only did he impoverish and lose a family member, but some collective accommodation, problems with hiring a mate, problems with children. We have thousands of people who haven't solved the housing issue, and most of them, in addition to what is said, are committed to being patriots and loving their own country, to be able and to defend the state, she counted on the apartment for good. That's where they lost their apartment. They didn't provide an apartment. When we talk about these apartments, I'm not talking about "The Florist" and some abuses, that's understood. We have a situation that this army is exposed to pressures from all sides. Perhaps the greatest pressure was treason within the army, calling on Vuk Draskovic not to go on the call of the military and state. We had a situation where The Hague in all charges against the Serbs treated our army as a participant in a criminal enterprise. We have a spectrum of NGOs, directed by Soros and international crisis groups, which also orchestrately act against Serbia-Montenegro's military. Who today wants to advance in the army must be in some way in close relations with the Atlantic Federal. It's a movement, that Nikodijevic, so now there's someone else, and first there's that pensioner, now there's someone else, and he's got to run and qualify. The army is down by numbers in terms of weapons equipment, the tools are also devalued, with respect to living standards being destroyed. All of this comes from Natasa Kandic, and you will hear in a few days, just at a time when Kosovo and Metohija are being discussed and the political search process should be re-engaged, towards some future status of Kosovo and Metohija, it will re-activate its imagination and move on. Where? To the SCG Army. There's that lawyer with that famous affair and there's gonna be another one. Someone has concluded that we don't need an army, that Serbs can't have an army, it's dangerous. At the same time, those others have concluded that it is good to take advantage of the experiences of our army, including in the fight against terrorism. It would be good to take these scripts, especially how someone defends himself from a computerly superior aggressor by ordinary or far weaker technical means. So, the army is destroyed, as soon as the army is destroyed, the state doesn't exist. The NATO Pact wants to uniform the military and make it addictive, primarily America, and America as an exporter of human rights and democracy on a global scale advocates demilitarisation everywhere, but it is maximum militarized. Its military budget exceeds the budgets of several of the most developed states per ranking, but total budgets. Let's see how things are with our public spending. She's probably about 50% now, maybe even more of a gross social product. Since there was just a story about the gross social product, so bad data was presented, in 1989 we started a drastic decline in gross social product, and it is true that by 1993 we lost two-thirds of our gross social product. The causes are known, these are sanctions, armed facts in the immediate environment, increased costs, refugees, and when all of this is added to a tired, outdated and suspended economy from 1981 to 1989, then it is no wonder that there has been such a huge loss of gross social product, so it talks 50% by 1993, and since 1998 30% is not true, let statistics be taken, because it is easy to check. Since 1998, when radicals were in power, there has been a decline in gross social product, for you from G17 plus, because you want to handle the facts wrong, only in one month there has been a decline in gross social product, industrial growth in production, and that was May 1999, during the bombing when the capacities were cancelled, etc. If that's proof to you that the SRS destroyed the economy, then you should know, because it's a NATO pact destroyed, not an SRS, because if you're potentialing it, it'd be the same as if there was a flood in your time now, so we're calling you that there's been a drop in industrial production due to the flood. Why? It happened while you were in power. It's an elemental accident, and this is a higher force. About how NATO was aggression, which is why NATO's aggression was like this, we'll probably share a common opinion Monday at the session, so there's no need to present some data, presenting that objective facts are when they're not objective facts, but the object of the structure that they're coming to, I'd like to say that, and to support that, let me make up a fact. Miss made up facts about surpluses, gross social product, etc. So, we need to allocate funds to our army, so that tomorrow some MPs don't find out, first of all, I think about government deputies, how poor nutrition is, poor health care, how some things happen in the military. You, in a memorandum for the next three years, planned for the military's participation in the gross social product that this participation from 2006 to 2007, i.e. until 2008 would decrease so that the defence would come from 2.4% to 1.9%. I can put internal security in that group from 2.2% to 1.3% and you're trying to go, as I would say, far ahead of standard, because there is no standard, but far ahead of the demands of those who condition you. The structure of public spending in a country, or in almost all countries, cannot be put into one uniform, cannot be said, the military can go 3% of gross social product and then it is for the whole world; it can't. There is a series of specificities, not just historical, but economic, developmental, but this is how you planned this degradation of funds for the military, it's dangerous. In addition, I have to remind you of the facts, Mladjan Dinkic caught himself around the Military Research Institute, stopped the sale, and later it was sold and we lost 10m euros plus-minus. It was for 16 sold, and it was sold later for six. So, as soon as he started toothing, disaster. This Mile Dragic affair, you'll see in the end what's going to happen, but it's a disgrace to the state. If you inside your party couldn't agree, why burden the state, why the people, the citizens, what you wanted to accomplish. You know it bothers you as strangers, so you only worked to destroy the army, to reduce the reputation of the military. It reduces the reputation, these go to church, you know, and I have to inform you, you'll see that in a few days, it's already being touched, it's going, Cedomira Jovanovic, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandić, Mićićka, Chanka, Kasu, Taci and only Thaci are the corresponding riots in Vojvodina, alleged unrest. And drug addicts who lose positions. Don't destroy the army. He who degrades the army has no state. Accept this amendment. This amendment tells many people that this country cares about young people going and finishing military schools and responding to military calls, being soldiers, being in military service, serving their people and their country. Don't devaluate, because all the countries that devalued it have disappeared. By definition of the state, a monopoly of physical coercion that needs to ensure security, and to prevent the outside, is an integral part of the definition of one nation and one state. If we don't have it, we're not even the people, we won't be the state. There are many elements here that are systematically done, designed to do this. I didn't want to question material positions and property rights, since I have another amendment regarding the military.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22138	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22139	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 4. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2006 refers to funds to cover the expenditure of the 2006 AP Vojvodina budget and is said to be provided from part of the income tax on the income of citizens, the income tax of 18% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the share of income from the company's profit tax of 42.7% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the transfer funds transferred from the budget amounting to 15 billion 505 million and 910 000 dinars, as well as other revenues made on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The amendment, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group by MP Srdjo Komazec, stipulates that Article 4(1) of this indent 4 is deleted, and these revenues have been made in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Why do we think it would be good to delete this part of the article? Because the National Assembly should not determine by its budget the revenue generated by the AP Vojvodina from its sources, and in particular that the draft budget does not set the ceiling for the amount and there are no precise sources of revenue. So, there's just something written here to be written, and basically it doesn't mean anything, as nothing even means an explanation, which the government wrote on half the page, which is why it doesn't accept the amendment of Srđa Komazec. So, the government didn't convince us that the amendment shouldn't be rejected. We of the SRS, of course, still think it is necessary for this amendment to be accepted and we expect that in the day to vote, MPs will do so, since the minister obviously did not understand our intention to improve the text of the budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22140	According to the same amendment, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has submitted this amendment, above all, expecting a serious explanation from the representatives of the government how and how the amounts of money from the transfer to the AP Vojvodina work, i.e. towards the province's authorities. Why, how and how are they determined, why, how and how does the province government spend that money? We needed more serious and responsible explanations, but we never got them. Now I'm asking all of you in the O.R. - do you know what the money is spending on and what Bojan Pajtic's provinceal government is dealing with? What do they do besides take money from the citizens of Vojvodina, the citizens of Serbia and what do they spend it on? Do they spend them on those leaves that propagate fascism, so they invite the Honveds to hold their sessions in Subotica? How much money was given from this budget for Hungarian So and Het Nap? To praise those who threw Serbs under the ice in 1941 and 1942, and is that a job? Is the job of the President of the Executive Council of the province, and he himself thought he was Prime Minister of Vojvodina, showed up here in Belgrade at the Media Centre to hold a press conference and say in a semi-paid voice like that -- well, you know, this is all happening, it's been the wind in the back ever since the Radicals won the New Sad. Oh, come on, he's the big prime minister, but it's the mayor's fault for something that doesn't have anything to do with it. What does the President of the Regional Executive Council do? By easing political opponents, it's his only job, and how much money he's going to take from the citizens and spend on cultural and quasicultural institutions, and how much pay they're going to share and how much they're going to steal. Do you know how they reacted to what happened in Međa and Yashi Tomic? There was an elemental accident, Bojan Pajtic left, give me a list of members and supporters of the DS, they're being helped. We came after that under the orders of Tomislav Nikolic, I went there to find people who were the poorest and the most affected by it and none were members of the SRS, only in this third village was one a sympathiser. The two were members of the DS, believe it or not, but they were the most hit, the poor, we divided their houses and the first ended within the deadline, because honorable and normal people do so. We could have told anyone and told us thanks, because we're a party, and we're not public government like him. No, but there you can only be rich and make progress if you're a member of the DS, you can steal and do whatever you want, and then it'll come: you know, this is a bad message because Maya Gojkovic won. Oh, come on, you're gonna win; you can steal and take and nothing. Everything that's going on in Vojvodina, it's not his fault, it's not their fault, it's someone else's fault. What are they doing, Mr. Vlaovic? Because there's something they're doing somewhere? Tell me, what do these people do? What's their job? What do they do besides get nice ties, good suits, so he doesn't ask me not to tell him where his car came from, because you know I know, I know a lot? What is it that he did for the citizens of Vojvodina? Nothing. Now every time you tell them this, you'll say, "Someone attacked Vojvodina." No one attacked Vojvodina, but we attacked the thieves of Vojvodina, so that Vojvodina would have more, so that the citizens of Vojvodina would have more. Now they have two cash registers. It was before that those from Belgrade were stealing from the people of Vojvodina, and now they are stealing from Belgrade and from the province government in Novi Sad. You're a sweetheart. Now you've got two carrots to settle. I'm asking you what they do. They said they'd lift the chains and the locks. That three-way pact, Tadic-Karic-Chanak. Where's the chain and lock off, Mr. Vlaovic, in Vojvodina? Where to, where to? What was it done for the people of Vojvodina? Where's that better? Where do they live better? They live in the fact that every day they're going to organize some scum, some con man, like that Bajic, that scum from Klopka a few days ago. Let me say something against radicals like this and that, because they won't have time to answer us. We want to have time. He'll tell me who he is, what Hitler is and what the Wymar Constitution is, or I don't know what it is. It's our country's power. When those Serbs throw themselves under the ice, that's good, so it's reconciliation, it's just old people. The old people who threw it under the ice, no big deal. When the graphics show up: January 1942, Sentomas, in Srbobran. Did you see that? Only one newspaper gave this much space to that photo. Did you see that, my dear friends? So where there's some other graphite, give it five books, 20 headlines and everything. Of course you should be convicted of that, too. Of course she has to be convicted, but it's not as one-sided as you want to introduce her. Do you know who your biggest anti-fascists are today in Serbia? To God, unlike us, the real anti-fascists, the people whose fascists killed the whole family. You know who these anti-fascists are? They'll talk to me about anti-fascism, my father killed the whole family, and they'll tell me about anti-fascism, those who organize a tribune and performance called "Shooting is O'kay." Did you hear that, dear friends? Bandits that organize performances called "Shooting is O'Ke". Draža Mihajlović, it was great that they shot him, which is not even known where his grave is, and it doesn't matter what you think of Draža Mihajlovic, it's great shooting, it's their message. It's an anti-fascist famous in Serbia. What are you talking about? All false anti-fascists today are philosophers or cryptofascists. Look at them. They don't allow other ideas, they'd ban political opponents from doing that job. We'd take them to the stadiums. One of those famous said -- I'd like that wolf and these and those in the stadium there, OFK Belgrade, I think he mentioned it, so lock them in a cage, in a wire, so they can't get out. Good heavens, and they're big Democrats. That's what this is all about, and that's what this budget is all about, so that they can keep kidnapping as much as they want and whatever they want, that the people of Vojvodina have nothing of it, and that they still convince you that we're all fascists in this country, and that they're just nice and good. I promised, and you know that I love to keep my promises, to them, and also to the MPs of the DS, some have not even met the bet when you bet on a drink, that they will lose the election, they are not able to keep it, they are people; like that man who won't pay you tomato juice because he lost a bet for the Kula elections; well, they're people -- that we're going to beat them up, of course, in a political sense, because we don't use poles, unlike them, everywhere, in all places in Serbia, that we're going to have a lot more percentages of votes everywhere than they are. That's when I promised Bojana Pajtic that there was enough of their lies and around the minority members, because the minority members they robbed, and they always tell them that someone somewhere wanted to hurt them, so they cheated on the good part of the Russian in The Tower, they got their votes on it -- something radicals want to do against you, so on and so on. Of course, we won't do anything. Now I promise him that in all Russian, Slovak, Hungarian, Romanian and other places we will beat them, because we will go from village to village to people say what they are asking of us. We in Vienna, where we rule together with Pal Shandor, agreed on everything in five minutes. Sam Pal Shandor says, in five minutes, I made a deal with radicals more than ten years with this one of mine. There's no unrest, there's no conflict, there's no international incidents. Why doesn't someone say so? Because you can make a deal. I call upon members of the national minorities to no longer trust thieves. They rob Serbs and others equally, whether they rob Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians or Serbs. Are you warning me?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22142	I draw the MPs' attention to the comments and to you in time. You've got another minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22143	They must have been very good and very positive comments, Mr. President. So that's a message for members of the national minorities. We have to live together, normally in this country. We're going to have to live in this country for hundreds of years, next to each other, to live in peace and love. That's not why thieves need to lead this country, because they're going to falsely scare someone with a false bear, and they're great saviors, and they're never gonna get anything out of their promises, and in the end, they come down to it -- let's give it to this facility, and you, when I give you those 10,000, then transfer me two thousand here, and so everything in a circle, like they're all silly in this country. Ambassador Vlaovic is an MP for the ruling coalition and I ask him what the province government has done, so let him tell me, since he's from Vojvodina, he knows well what's going on there, I go there often, because I have a large part of the family, so I know, but let him tell me what they did and where they did something, but for the people of Vojvodina, not for himself. Let's see if they're better off or if they're better off anywhere. Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina can no longer stand those who will say - we are going, we are a Euroregion, we are going here and there, and only they are going somewhere; only they go somewhere, their pockets have grown, trucks are loading as much money as they want, and the people of Vojvodina are barely making ends meet. It's time for us to win that kind of power. That three-way pact that rules the Vojvodina will never rule again. I hope we have a very quick election, so you'll see the will of the voters and the citizens of Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22144	Thank you. People's MP Mika Vlaovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why Mr. Vukic asked me what the Democrats were doing in Vojvodina. I belong to the DSS, who is not in power in Vojvodina. In Vojvodina, I must tell the truth, there are reformers in power who have every amendment, every story of the opposition in the Assembly by 2003 refused to do so: we are reformers, and you are brakes of reform. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has been characterised by them as a brake for reforms, and the age of the Implementation Study, the most senior nation clause, will get good conditions in the Kosovo negotiations. What are they doing? They support the Vojvodina parties that have no chance of entering Serbia's parliament. Knowing I can't do that, then it suits them to cause trouble in Vojvodina and create the possibility of detaching Vojvodina, to rule there. Unfortunately, a few more people in Vojvodina trust them just because we didn't strip them to the end. The people of Vojvodina need to know the truth about who's fighting for the citizens and who's fighting for personal interests. A few days ago, I was in the flooded area of South Banat, and I heard a story, which is in favor of what Vukic said. In the municipality of Cereal people, seeing the flood coming, they picked up cattle from all the people who didn't have shelter and wanted to sell it. The massacre in Zrenjanin offered 20 per cent higher price than the Banat slaughterhouse from Bantask Karlovac. Slobodan Kosovac, of the Regional Ministry for Agriculture, sent them a fax: since the grain slaughterhouse will not pay for a month, give 20 per cent cheaper slaughterhouse "Banat", which is under bankruptcy for three years. The regional agriculture secretary is from that part of Banat. He must have known that the slaughterhouse was under bankruptcy and would not pay. He probably had some interest in it. That's terrible. You can, in a certain way, not forgive, but somehow accept if something is robbed, and when someone robs from the flooded and threatened, it's for every conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22146	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic. Did I get it right, but you're supporting the subject, but not the amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Hranislav Peric. [[Mika Vlaovic, from the place: This was a replica.]] Here you go, Mr. Perry. Let me ask, does any other MPs want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22147	Mr. President, I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure. All the members of the Rules of Procedure that you wrote and adopted, it was that you made a local community of the People’s Assembly or, closer to saying, home counsel. Today we are discussing the budget, 25 MPs are present, and all 250 logs are received at the register. So, I suggest you take a break, invite the MPs to come down to the O.R. or come down, if they're shopping somewhere, or walk around town, to work in this assembly, because the people voted, to debate and to represent them in the Assembly. I suggest to you, as president, we have elected you president of the Assembly, and you want to be the president of the local community, to put a new Rules of Procedure on the agenda for the next session, which will restore a little dignity to the Assembly, to have the Assembly fully convened and to represent the citizens as they voted for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22148	Thank you, Mr. Perry. I owe you an answer. Therefore, it is not correct for all colleagues who, according to the Rules of Procedure, are doing what they think is best to influence the adoption of the budget. As you know, I haven't been in the O.R. in two hours, I've been in my office the whole time, following the transmission, like everyone else does, since there's internal television here. I have to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which this assembly adopted. As you know, I support and thank everyone who contributed to the discussion that this assembly adopts the Rules of Procedure, and of course it is a great pleasure, I suppose, for all of us together, what we received yesterday as an official report, which is that in the context of the progress made by the state of Serbia in the previous period only one document is particularly highlighted, and this is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the responsibility to contribute to effective work in different ways, and also by participating in the discussion here. So, I thank you all for your responsibility, and I do what I have to do under the Rules of Procedure and the Law. Mr. Peric is not satisfied, he answered the word, then the same according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22149	Mr. President, you often use that place of yours, and when you explain it, nothing is clear after that. When it comes to the ceiling, you translate the story onto the floor and no one in Serbia understands you. You can make as many excuses as you want. The truth is, either run the Assembly properly or bring the MPs here, because they were paid to work, they founded a working relationship in the Assembly. How much do you have to do with the permanent working relationship of employees in the Assembly? If you don't want to do it, say you won't do it, let someone do it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22150	Mr. Peric, is this an official initiative? It's not. Mr. Wolfie, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Peric is right. It's not true that we should boast and boast that the condition is ideal. Anyway, that amendment he's got, that's what the MPs of the SRS come up with. If it wasn't for that, you wouldn't even look like the congregation. You know that it is the authority that determines and shows what congregation work should look like. I only have one remark for Mr. Peric. We warned you it would look like this, so you voted for such a Rules of Procedure. We warned you that Markovic would not keep his promise and many others from the ruling majority. In the end, it turns out that we were right, not you when you voted for such a Rules of Procedure. In any case, what is very important to us, it is that I think it would be good to call, at this point there are some fewer SRS MPs, although we are in a position and can be neither of us and don't blame anything DS, it is their right to come out whenever they want, it is not their right to come out when the debate is on Kosovo and Metohija, but they have the right to never come. They are opposition, and they can do whatever they want, for that they bear political responsibility to the citizens. That's what the government has to do. Ours are absent at the moment, because we have a major party action and because of tomorrow's scientific gathering that takes place at the Sava Center at 10:00, so I would take the opportunity to invite all of the Belgraders to come to that rally. What's more important is whether we're going to take this seriously or not, will five people go out for a pay phone every day and the rest serve just as a voting machine? I don't think that's much like the National Assembly. I don't think the citizens of Serbia think well of the National Assembly, although I'm not on the side of those who are going to lead the hunt against the National Assembly, because it's kind of the easiest thing to say -- they're getting diaries there, they're getting money. For example, yesterday, even though I spent all day in the National Assembly, I was in this building all day, I couldn't get down to the O.R., I received numerous parties, delegations, etc., I didn't take the diary. I didn't sign up here at all, and I didn't take my diary. It's not true that every day he picks up his diary. Maybe it's for some other truth. Here, I gave you a concrete example, I came from myself, and it really happened that way. It's not a question of one diary, five diaries or 100 diaries, because it was Hitler's argument when he wanted to tear down Reichstag, etc., how much it cost. That stupid argument I'm looking at a little bit and a little bit at B92 -- how much is this, how much is it? They'd be the best way to get rid of the National Assembly. It costs a lot more corruption and thieving than 50 National Assemblys, and we have one National Assembly and we need one National Assembly. Although we need a National Assembly, not a set of national MPs of one tenth, who will sit back and watch how and how to defend some of their amendments, and all the other absolute National Assembly is not interested, that the government of the congregation is not interested at all. Where are the ministers, Mr. President? Where are the representatives of the government? They're very smart to teach us a lesson, to give us a tirada. The most important law we're discussing here, man of God, about the budget. About the most important law. We have amendments here, where's the minister? What's smarter today to do, what does he do today? Is there a savings bank on the agenda today? He's very important. He's very smart. Or meet with Karic. (President: Time. It's not time. I'm done. It's not time for that, but it's time for him to come to the Assembly, it's time for him to address the MPs, to answer for every amendment why he won't accept it, not for us to get stupid explanations of government services, which are the same for every amendment or like an egg. I invite you and please do something to make this situation change. You won't be able to stop the fall of the National Assembly rating. It's not good for us or for you. It has nothing to do with political parties. It's not good for anyone, because we're tearing down an institution that needs to be the most important in Serbia, the most important of all from both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and everyone else. The National Assembly is the representation of all Serbian citizens. In the kind of indirect democracy that we have and the kind that exists everywhere in the world, this is the most important organ. What does this look like? You didn't give an answer to Periæ, but "we got the commendations, so our Rules of Procedure got the commendations". He got a terrible commendation. Ask the citizens of Serbia what they think of it, Mr. President, and you will hear different praises. Just make sure you don't get surprised by all the swearing. It's no problem for us to put up with swearing, politicians have to put up with it, but make sure it's not so much, make sure the citizens say -- they're doing something there, they're reading some laws, they're fighting for something, they're not -- they're there to pick up the diaries. There are some of them. They're just looking at how much they're gonna raise their own expenses, where they're going to travel, so five of them get put in one car, and then all five of them charge that kind of expenses. We all know he's got it, but it's not all of them, and it's not all the same. That's why I'm asking for a change in the relationship in this National Assembly Hall, so that it might look like the National Assembly, because that's your responsibility, Mr. President, and that's where to thank you, so let it please you wherever you're told it's very nice. Serbian citizens don't think so today, that's why they want to change and they want a different National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22152	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The President of the Assembly organizes the work of the National Assembly and must organise it according to the Rules of Procedure, not according to the impression or what someone thinks he saw. From the point of view of political parties, those who formed the electoral lists and then the citizens voted for them, each for myself, I bear no responsibility for any political party, deciding on the way in which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law, they will present themselves to voters or affect the law. It's their right. Don't ask the President of the Assembly to decide that. If you are asking the President of the Assembly to communicate more with the public and deliver information, let's say, about which MP he spent so much time in the O.R., I can do it in five minutes and then, if you want, on this basis, we will be able to sophisticatedly, as Mr. Peric did earlier, establish a relationship between whether someone treats the Assembly responsibly, as according to the highest authority, or treats the local community as well. Do not expect the President of the Assembly to do the opposite of what is required, therefore, against the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Wolf, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22153	You can't ask for it, and now I'll tell you why. You can't get the truth. My card, for example, has almost always been drawn from the opposition MP, and I think Serbian citizens have seen Toma Nikolic, Natasa Jovanovic, Verica Radet and Zoran Krasic, maybe Veroljub Arsic and I don't know who else, but everyone from the SRS is behind a pay phone as much as I am. You'll have me here every day for half a second. It's my right as an opposition MP, and the people will see it. Mr. Markovic, now that I've learned, I knew there was something very important today, to talk about where those who should be giving answers to the amendments to the MPs are today. There's a guy who went to listen, he's got a Goce Market concert at the opening of some Mercur store on Bezian's hair. He went to Goce Tržan's concert at the opening of the Merukur Stock House, Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, and the budget is being discussed, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is it more important that the opening of the Merkur Stock House on Bezanskih hair from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia than how economic policy should look to us for next year, how social policy should look to us for next year, how it should be answered to the MPs of the opposition who have objections to the budget, to the most important act the Assembly adopts in one year, the law on laws, the highest law after the Constitution. He listens to Gocu Market. I don't mind, but let her listen when she doesn't have a session of the National Assembly. Do you have an answer to that, Mr. President? Why isn't there anyone from the government? Stop the session, call them, order them. Tell them - he's coming to that assembly, you have to answer to the MPs, the citizens of Serbia. Tell them so. What else are they doing? Do they have any other important cocktails with good ropes and I don't know what? Who cares more? What kind of answers are these? Let them appear here, let them act responsibly to the citizens of Serbia, if they do not respect us who are their political opponents. By not respecting the National Assembly, they do not respect voters in Serbia, they do not respect Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens want to hear the answers to how many pensions they will receive, how much money they will take from small businesses, how much and how they will be able to obtain other social benefits from disabled people, war veterans, etc. This is what interests Serbian citizens, not cocktails in Mercury, sings Goca Tržan and plays Bruce Li.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22154	I owe it exclusively to you, leading the session, according to Article 27. I'm giving the Rules of Procedure the answers. I can't give political answers, especially from this place, and I'm avoiding it. I remind you once again, the president of the Assembly and the professional services are organising the work of the Assembly. In contrast, government representatives give amendments and arguments, I cannot influence the accuracy or inaccuracy of this and it is important that the representatives of the ministry are present. There's no reason why we're opening this guy's political discussion right now. So, who's present at this point, everyone's choosing how they're going to introduce themselves to the citizens. Don't make me bring political judgments about it. After all, you were just talking, I think, about different government representatives at some other level. Not in this address, but in the previous one, who are big volunteers on the word that they're transferring some work to work instead of doing their job. Everyone's in charge of their work. I am responsible for the management of the National Assembly in accordance with the Law and Rules of Procedure, and I am available to you all for the way I do it. I'm not going to judge, you will, but don't put me in a position to answer questions that don't concern managing the assembly, because it's not right from where I'm sitting right now. I think it's quite clear. Here, one sentence, of course, just make sure that Mr. Obradovic is waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22155	I asked Mr. Obradovic for a little more patience. So, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I think you've given me three or four notices during this term, I've been guilty twice, and once it was your fault when you made that up for me. As you can see, as an honorable man, I admitted it and said that, even though I was telling the truth, I wasn't lying, but perhaps in a way of speaking, I was exaggerating, so I said a word that would be more difficult than what this high house allows and said that it was okay that you punished me. As you once were wrong, you only did it because you were nervous. I said I was more guilty than you. I have to tell you something, Mr. President. You know that in front of the National Assembly this lovely lady, this lovely lady represents nothing. She can be an internal associate of Young Dinkic or someone else. You all know that, people, why don't you go out and say that, you all know that in the National Assembly. She can only sit and that thanks to our goodwill and nothing else. He can't say anything, he can't do anything. What's it for? To text that -- look at you, Mercury, I don't know if you've seen Bruce Lee's movie or Goce Tržan concert, but these haven't attacked you much or attacked you much. Or -- hello, you national, let me tell you that these people are on you anyway. What's this about? We're not all idiots here. We don't have much sense, but we're not all idiots that you can tell us, I don't think anyone is, that you can tell us -- it's good while there's a representative. It's not good because he's not a representative. The government's representative is a minister. Not one minister, there should be five when there's a budget debate, if not the whole government. What's smarter and more important today: Mercury. To leave the opposition, I can understand it, it's not responsibility, it's not burdensome, it's the government's burden on its shoulders, it's the Deputy Prime Minister at the time of the strictest budget debate opening "Mercur". Please, Mr. President, I know you're in a difficult situation, not because of your actions, but because of the irresponsibility of many from the government, you don't have to wash yourself, you don't have to answer me, and you don't have to come up with anything, I know you're funny and able to come up with anything that's possible at the moment, which Mr. Peric would say exactly, but please don't underestimate the intelligence of the MPs. We've been in the National Assembly for a long time, some of us are real veterans, we know everything and every detail, how it is, and we assume it will be, but I ask you, when the debate on the budget is, to ensure the presence of the ministers. It has never happened that ministers do not attend the budget debate. We attacked the previous government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, but they came. One goes away, then they come back again, and some sit around all day. I think Zivkovic's been sitting all day. The essence of my proposal is to invite these ministers nicely, to tell them that they are very important, is "Mercur" extremely important, but the citizens of Serbia are incomparably more important, the National Assembly, the MPs and the debate on the budget are hundreds of times more important than "Mercur", than singers, singers, cinemas, theatres and everything else. It's the most important job they have in a year today and don't play with it, because here you'll have a problem until the end of today's debate, and I see you've even got it with coalition partners. It is due to the seriousness and responsibilities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not because we are political opponents.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22156	Unfortunately, I must say, I will exclusively work on the Rules of Procedure, without any political answers. It doesn't occur to me to call people who choose their own responsibility for their pay. I can't let us call each other and where there's a vice president now, and what's the difference with the pay of a MP, and where's a member of the government, and what's scheduled. What's crucial must be done by law. While there was a principle debate, of course, that the minister was present all the time, and now that the debate on amendments is attended by representatives of the ministry. I'll do anything compared to the suggestions I've heard. It is certainly up to the ministers to be present during the talks on the amendments. I ask you all, according to the Rules of Procedure, be kind, I will certainly provide it, and I ask you not to put me in an awkward situation and to say things that I cannot do from this place. You all assume I'm a big fan of the last line of "The Father on the Official Road." "Please allow Mr. Obradovic, it is not correct for other MPs. I know the exact provisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22157	I apologize to Mr. Obradovic, I apologize to all the MPs. Mr. President of the National Assembly, in the Rules of Procedure you have an obligation, there is an obligation to be attended by a representative of the Government. Where's the Prime Minister? Where's the Deputy Prime Minister? On Mercury. Where's your finance minister, where are the ministers? It is according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This lady is not a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia knows that. She can't even be authorized. Anything you want, she can't be authorized. And that he may, who will answer, Mr. President, accept whether or not he accepts the amendment. We're going out here to entertain Serbian citizens, is that our role? That Serbian citizens say we like it or we don't like what it says. Who will accept our argument? I think we had an extraordinary argument about these amendments concerning Bojan Pajtic and the thieving authorities in Vojvodina. Why didn't the minister come to say whether he accepted our amendment or not? Who's going to tell us? There's no Finance Committee, there's nothing. (President: Please... Don't beg me, but answer me, why don't you follow the Rules of Procedure, why there's no government representative here, why there's no minister here, why there's no Deputy Prime Minister. Get them to open up that Mercury and get them over here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22158	So once again, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is, of course, an opinion of the Government on the amendments, and you have received a report from the Committee. Of course, the representative who is here, not as an authorised representative in terms of the minister, cannot give answers and accept, but is now serving his presence to suggest that, in relation to the arguments that are new, possibly, those for which the amendment has been rejected or accepted by the government, the change of decision suggests and the amendment can be accepted. You are absolutely right, the presence of the competent minister authorised for that point on behalf of the Government until the hearing is concluded in particular. So, not until the end of the debate on the amendment, but until the debate is concluded in particular. We can, of course, do something else, which is to take a break while other working conditions are being created. That's not controversial. Let's hear Mr. Obradovic first, so I'll make a decision, be serious. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22159	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I considered it necessary for me to come out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and tell you something about the same subject, which is Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, my colleague, Hranislav Peric, does not ask you to do anything else until you do business in the Rules of Procedure. The SPS deputies believe that the Rules of Procedure must be respected until it changes, and this one is obviously mature for change, at least in this part. It seems to me, Mr Markovic, that this is not disputed that this is the most significant, and if you will, the most open institution in the Republic of Serbia whose work is being monitored, let me say from beginning to end, from a) to s). It is most exposed to media attacks, of course, because through poor work the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia wants to create conditions for the government's fall and new parliamentary elections. That's not controversial. A lot of bad news is being written about the congregation itself. No matter what we claim we can or can't influence it, the picture that leaves here, when the hall isn't properly filled, is bad for the Parliament and is bad for the MPs. We're not asking you not to respect the Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, you respect the Rules of Procedure, but you have as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia authority and you are consulting with the heads of parliament to ensure the presence of MPs. I'm not going into where the MP is now, because I know the work of the MPs isn't just in this room. It's also done by MPs' groups. Laws, contacts with citizens are being prepared and have different kinds of obligations with ministers, etc. There's got to be a lowest threshold. As for the presence of MPs in the Serbian Parliament and in what number, even if that part of the Rules of Procedure is mature for change. You know well that in preparation for the adoption of this current Rules of Procedure we have agreed to support the proposal, but we have indicated that we will have this situation that Mr. Peric and Mr. Vukic are talking about. So, we're going to have a situation like this, because just to say, all MPs don't have a sense of responsibility that they should have, and you don't have a mechanism to force them to be there. There's one more thing, and I think it's necessary to say, ministers need to be here. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is working in this assembly, I think, for 18 months. In those 18 months, she passed a large number of laws and it appears that the work of the Assembly is above average, if you will, in relation to some other institutions. In those 18 months we've had, I think, 100 and some law on the agenda. The obligation of individual ministers in those 18 months was to perhaps attend here two or three times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you look at the average of two or three times, that's three, four or five days tops. It's not correct, I use that word, it's not correct for the minister not to be here. He, if he's not here, who defends the government's views, then who has a formal legal basis to go out for this pay phone and say, the amendment isn't good for you because of that and whether it's good or good, but we can't accept him for that and for that and for that, and for the system solution, etc. It is still not correct, and it speaks of the congregation and of us, because, let me say, we raised this congregation from the ashes, and it is my turn to keep it on a high level, as it deserves it. We must all participate, and we MPs and you as president, as well as ministers who should be here. They have to be, because this budget is the most important law for every country in the year, for the government. Except for the request for her shift of an unimportant law than the draft budget law. If one resolution minister cannot be, then it must be the second, third, fourth, fifth, and there must be so many ministers in this country that they can attend the session of the Serbian Parliament. This is a bad picture of the Serbian Parliament, no matter what we don't want, because we support the government. This is a bad picture of the Serbian Parliament and the bad general about us, when one, two or three ministers cannot come to the debate on the budget law and give answers to the questions that MPs are asking. Your task, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, is to try to ensure their presence, and to create conditions for there to be more MPs in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22160	Thank you, Mr. Beard. I will certainly respect that, and I will inform the Assembly now, and part of what you have advocated and what the previous speaker, Mr. Vukic, has advocated. First, let's hear first Mr. Nikolic's explanation, which he reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the dignity of the National Assembly has been so hurt here, if I were the minister you voted for, I'd kick you with my leg. So much those ministers appreciate you, and what they appreciate when ten of you sits in the hall, why would one minister attend a session of the National Assembly where ten MPs sit, those who have something to say about the amendment and those who accidentally strayed into the O.R. What have you brought down, Mr. President, the amendment debate? You just said that it was all over, the government gave its position on the amendments, the Committee came forward, so why are we having a debate in the Amendments Assembly? Is this debate going to convince someone that the amendment should be accepted? Change the Rules of Procedure. You say MPs write amendments, the government declares amendments, almost, what it has accepted, accepted, and what it is not, it is not. There's no discussion about the amendments. The amendment is part of the bill. So there's no debate about one big part of the bill, because the government won't and allows it to be President of the Assembly. What is the bizarre reason why today the government is not there - the economic betrayal of the country. Economic traitors are opening "Mercur" in Belgrade today and you know it well, "Merkur Gornje" - and you know it well. Tell Prime Minister Kostunica and Vice President Labus, Minister Dinkic, I will gladly approve their absence when the Serbian firm opens a department store in Ljubljana. Then I'll say, bravo, you've shown in some way that you value our country a little. What Slovenians are opening up to us in Belgrade, not factories, but stores, where the poor woman will spend some more money, that our political elite there is being photographed to show that Slovenians still need to sell their goods to us, continue to ban us from selling our goods to them, it is an economic betrayal of the country, it is for money, and that one of them takes the money. I don't see any other reason. It would still be good if Drnovšek humiliated them, today if he had come to see them on the way to tell them that Kosovo would be independent, and you are lying under Slovenians, turn into Slovenian slaves, Serbians for the account of Slovenians, forget that they were the first to kill our children, unarmed, snipers and hunting rifles. You can forget everything. You took that responsibility. You get a letter from abroad, you take that obligation, and you all turn into the same mass, into a mass of commitments from the West. So don't ask yourself how you lose political authority, so tell Kostunica and Tadic not to ask the West to destroy the SRS and that in January they won't get away with it, I'm convinced. You radicals, just keep working. This won't take long.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22162	Thank you. In response to the same article, self-esteem is crucial for establishing the authority of an institution, and I ask you to take care of it. Compared to that, a break up to 1400 hours, according to the Rules of Procedure. We will continue to discuss the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Thank you. [[After breaks – 14,10]] At the same time, I am informing you that I have instructed the competent ministry to, however urgent, whatever Friday is and what is for all of you this extraordinary day of work, to participate in controlling and recording objections to what the government has already responded, in order to possibly adopt some additional amendments by the end of the debate in particular. In the meantime, we'll continue our work. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22164	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the finance minister is not in Belgrade. I guess he'd show up here, obviously he had more important things to do than a meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly didn't say where the minister was, he just said he was in the field. Otherwise, the minister was there, while this session lasted, in Golubac, opening a sports hall. The sports hall opened for the first time, about a year ago, the former president of Ljubisa Misic municipality, opened a Polish ambassador three days ago, and here is the opening of the finance minister today. The man went simply to promote himself and his political party, instead of being here in the Serbian Parliament, when discussing the most important law the Assembly adopts after the Constitution, which is the budget law. Probably the reason he got an invitation from the Golubac municipality is that some assets were probably provided. I don't believe it's some big asset, more symbolic of that community, especially for the conclusion of that sports hall, although it was finished, but it was needed before some transfer funds were approved to the municipality of Dovebac to find out a few more things. It is a small municipality, poor, undeveloped, next to the Danube, but it has spent a million dinars cutting off some heir. That was the DS organization. A party that is a member of the Socialist International and the president of the municipality that should call its colleagues comrades, calls for guests of some heir and spends another million dinars for it. Then Dinkic lets such a thief have more money, so that he can get a picture when the hall, which has already been opened twice, is the third time opened to his Majesty, and now we have two heirs, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22165	As you have stated, I never advertise where anyone is present, but everyone chooses to do so. The People's Messenger Hranislav Perić according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger of the Prophet Verica Rade according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was a break before 1:00 p.m. that there were no MPs in the O.R. This time in the O.R., you have 29 MPs of 250 again. Just because of the public, because of the citizens who voted for us, I declare and I want to say that the National Assembly is starting to continue to discuss the budget with 29 MPs of 250, elected by the people. Next, I am not pleased with your response when you explained that you have made a request for the ministry to appear in the Serbian Parliament. This is no excuse for this congregation. Either someone from the Ministry will come here to defend the law and follow the amendments or they won't. That's all I know. I don't know any explanation. I told them, "Come tomorrow." Therefore, once again, I ask you to ensure that this congregation does what is appropriate. You're all saying it wasn't good what the Socialists were doing. If we took our Rules of Procedure, which the Socialists had, for two days, it wouldn't be possible for this congregation to work. At any moment the quorum had to be 126, and now you can't have a third, 60 MPs to secure in the O.R. What's that look like? I repeat again, this is not a local community. When I have half the members of the local community, I don't start the local community, I'm embarrassed, I have no one to talk to. Finally, again, we chose you as president of the Serbian Parliament, we are not the president of the local community council.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22167	Please take care of the accuracy of the information. The break was given according to the business law that the chairman or speaker of the assembly gave a break and I explained it within the normal working hours of 10 to 18 hours. You also know very well, because you have received official information about how many MPs are present in the Assembly, and how many there are, you can see it at the session any minute. It's not the president's job, it's the MP's clubs and their way of working out where some MP will sit down and work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Also, I've passed on the correct notice I'm obliged to give. That's perfectly clear, and I'm asking that we just stick to it. I'm unable and I don't want to have any political discussion. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta, then Mr. Dacic. (Ivica Dacic, from place: Replication of Mr. Vukic's exposure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22168	Ladies and gentlemen, at 1:00 p.m., we finished our morning session of the Assembly, and it wasn't long ago that those who were here and those who were watching us knew why it was done. You, Mr. President, you've been trying to tell us all day that you're not going to be making political statements, but you have to say what you are. Two hours of the morning part of the session were spent on injuries to the Rules of Procedure, replication to the subject, etc. The essence, at least what came from the ranks of the SRS, is that we find it inadmissible for the Assembly to discuss the 2006 budget law in particular in the absence of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That was the reason why a break was given at 13.00 hours, instead of usual, so not necessarily, but normally, at 1400 hours. I ask, what changed from 13.00 to 14.20 hours? We still do not have representatives of the government in parliament and we will continue to talk about the amendments. We have some kind of unmistakable explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where for three or four amendments we have an explanation: the amendment is not accepted as the one per member, the one per member. So, a very unserious approach by the government of the Republic of Serbia towards the amendments, towards the MPs, and in the end to the citizens of Serbia, who chose all of us and brought us to this parliament. So, we continue to insist that the representatives of the government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are taken into account, to realize that this is the most important job, to discuss today how much money Serbia's citizens are going to take out of their pockets, how much money will be spent, how much of it from the citizens' pockets to get Boris Tadic's National Office and the one there, Gilas, how much they're going to get any NGOs, how much you've predicted, and not, for the development of production, the launch of production. We're trying to convince you to accept some amendments, to at least make something out of this budget that's scheduled. We do all that here, in the presence of a very small number of MPs. Worse yet, without the presence of a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We heard where Minister Dinkic is, Labus. If no one is there, let Vojislav Kostunica come, he is the Prime Minister, he can say, perhaps we can convince him, perhaps he is still not involved in the country's economic betrayal, such as Labus and Dinkic, which are opening Mercury in Serbia, etc. So, Mr. President, you respected an early afternoon request from the MPs to interrupt the session until they are present at the Hall of Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Please, take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, take care of the impression we give the citizens of Serbia. It is inconclusive that MPs talk about amendments, which we convince if there are no representatives of the government. Our work comes down to "beating empty straw." We Serbian radicals are too serious for such work, for your attitude towards parliament, towards the citizens of Serbia. Please, if you are unable to ensure the presence of a representative of the Government, that we have a good break-up, so that when the government has time, when it has its dignity, let them come and continue to talk about the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22169	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ivica Dacic, a replica of the presentation of the People's MP Alexander Vukic in the afternoon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22170	I volunteered for the replica, although Mr. Wolfie is not here right now, I could wait and come, but it's no big deal to read the stenogram. My esteemed colleague, Alexander Vukitch, said one sentence to which I had to respond. I quote: "Today it is obvious that the government in Serbia, made up of DSS, G17 plus, SPO-New Serbia, SDP and SPS, is trying to steal one mandate from the SRS." You know that the SPS is absolutely against stealing a mandate. You know we were the first victim to steal a mandate from Banet Ivkovic. Also, you know, your people know that, besides, Tomislav Nikolic is the chairman of the Administrative Committee, put on the agenda of the Administrative Committee a question of your MPs, if they have signed resignations, and even if they do not, we will believe that the mandates belong to the parties, not to the MPs. That the mandates belong to MPs and not to the parties was invented by DOS, he first kidnapped five, then seven SPS mandates during the DOS, the famous Banet Ivkovic, who supported the government of Zoran Djindjic and the government of Zoran Zivkovic. In any case, this is absolutely incorrect that the SPS has anything to do with the kidnapping of any mandates here in the Assembly. We were against it, and we're against it in principle -- that there's no kidnapping of mandates. As the people voted in the elections, which the political parties voted for, so should be represented afterwards in parliament. In that sense, I hope that this finding was more in descriptive terms, to say who makes up the parliamentary majority, not who participates in the kidnapping of the mandate. If you have any plan to fight the kidnapping of office, we're here. There are 22 of us in the parliamentary group. Let's make a law to stop it. But changing the law doesn't suit those who can steal mandates. Why would someone change the law when they can with 100,000 euros, or with an apartment, or with a job offer for an MP's family, transfer certain MPs to another MP's list? Why would someone change the law when tycoons in Serbia estimate they are better off giving six or ten MPs three million euros than losing 200m euros? Ladies and gentlemen, that's the problem we're not going to fight to take office. That's what it's all about. We must protect the electoral will of the citizens. She's showing up once in the election. The people in the vote vote for those who will decide on their behalf in the next inter-election period. Who does the people vote for here? Votes for political parties or coalitions? What happens after the election? The MPs, the council members, have been on the market since day one. What ideas, what ideologies, what betrayals of the original principles - the betrayal of Milosevic, Seselj or others? This is about stealing and taking a mandate. Therefore, I agree with Mr. Vucic, if the SRS wants us to fight the kidnapping of mandates, we will give absolute support, just please don't mention us in this context, especially these people who are now in the leadership of the SPS, because we never had anything to do with any withdrawal of the mandate. On the contrary, we were the victim of the kidnapping of the term of office. Also, I would ask Mr. Vukic not to choose the society I will be in on the political scene of Serbia. I'm sure he and I have a remarkable and political and aesthetic taste, too, that we will choose our own companionship. Society, mentioned here, that could be my company, of course, would never occur to me. In addition, the SPS would never have occurred to be in this society, and some others sometimes got out of control, so they signed certain agreements against the SPS together, during the existence of the SPS for 15 years. So I just called to draw attention to these two details. As for the Glamoccans and Derets, did I participate or anyone in this parliamentary group? (President: Time. ) So, the SRS is against kidnapping, and we are against kidnapping and theft of mandates. I absolutely agree that anyone involved should answer, ladies and gentlemen. Just don't have double arches. Do not hug the SPS when you need and when you need the voices of those who love this or that, Slobodan Milosevic or these, and now when you do not need it - you are thieves, kidnapping mandates, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22171	I saw Mr. Peric and you calling. One explanation. All MPs highly appreciate the responsibility of those MPs who are ready in the presentation of the amendment and have shown in the previous period that they sit and work here both day and night, because of their importance and because of their responsibility for what their parties represent and what their citizens have chosen for. On that point, we also agreed to work overtime today. Of course, the amendments are up, so it's clear to everyone, I think everyone knows that. We discussed the law in principle and responsible MPs participated in the work together with the competent minister, I think by more than nine o'clock in the evening. In no way should anyone here call the MPs. Also, I accept responsibility. I called the D.A.'s office. He's currently from the competent ministry of three attendings. No matter what reason it is, good or bad, except for the Committee, when it is possible for the proposer to accept the amendment and, depending on whether it is accepted by the Committee and by the Legislative Committee, it becomes an integral part or not, it is also possible to adopt an amendment by the end of the debate in particular. But I'm sure it can't be an incompetent minister. So, let's be correct with each other. Therefore, it is further pressure on the public and voters to present the amendment and why someone was working. Respecting the strict Rules of Procedure, I will now give a 15-minute break. After that, we'll make a deal, we'll hear from you at the pay phone, and we'll figure out whether or not we'll continue to work today, assessing what's right. [[After breaks – 14,50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work. I ask the Minister to take his place and representatives of the Ministry, as well as the MPs. There will be an amendment, as announced at the end of the afternoon's big break, to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Prior to that, according to Business, Natasa Jovanovic and then Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there are no conditions for continuing to work on the agenda when we are considering the draft law in particular. In an attempt at its zeal, Minister Predrag Bubalo, who is awaiting a draft law on the agenda after considering the draft budget law in particular, came to the assembly building thinking that his law is soon on the agenda, which some ministers from the ruling coalition are doing, but can count or not count on the fingers of one hand. This does not include Mladjan Dinkic and his invitation to you – either he is not responding to your call or you are unable to contact him and not agreeing to the continuation of today's session, or at the beginning of the sequel, but your third attempt – clearly shows that he is demeaning the National Assembly, that he is opening a sports hall in Golubac, or an object that was opened three times before that, and we are really sick of his insolence, as well as of the citizens of Serbia. We have a report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia set up for almost every SRS amendment the same. If it doesn't say, the answer is as in the amendment to Article 2, then it says they didn't understand the amendment. You can't do that. A minister can't behave like this. Minister Bubalo has come, it's his responsibility for every session and every law. Right, Mr. Minister? In fact, you're invited to come to every session. Mr. Markovic, it took you an hour and a half to figure out what you're going to tell us to get conditions for continuing work. If that's the case, and if you're now dead, you're sitting there and you're still talking and you're giving us a word on the amendments, or a colleague of Mircic, then what were you thinking about for that hour and a half. I guess you should have let us know what kind of knowledge you've come up with, why that is. Mr. Vukic came out, unequivocally pointing out that the minister and vice president of the government are fooling with us and with the citizens of Serbia. Later, a colleague named Arsic, after the chairman of our district board for Braničevski County, received all his demands also as an authorised representative of the information that he is the minister of Golubac, who knows where and what this looks like next. Why did you even interrupt work for two hours if you're going to continue your session uninterruptedly and normally? Where did you even get that right? You tried something this morning, Mr. Markovic, and you're the biggest culprit, because your Rules of Procedure and the proposal they adopted, your majority of the assembly, disfigured the work of the Assembly. You tried to calculate something with a minute of MPs. That's not how it works. We had in the last DOS assembly of an MP who didn't do anything else but every morning at 9.30, as soon as these people unlock the door, come, sit down, insert the card. He never went out for a congregation pay phone, made a special DOS show about him and said, "This is the most valuable MP because he sits, his card stands all the time." And he, whether he listens or doesn't listen, writes some of his books, takes notes. We're not gonna do that. We are serious people, citizens expect us to protect their interests, to face and to have the minister to answer our arguments. If you think and you told us -- here's the government's response -- that that's the government's response to the amendment that I've submitted to fully balance the budget, the revenue and expenditure side for 2006, along with a whole trail that goes by division, so that's not possible, imagine this genius from the government, says it's not possible because a surplus has been thrown out. Why do we need a 40 billion dinar surplus when those who need it most don't have it, and the minister boasts that his budget is full of money. If you have the morals and responsibilities to continue to chair the congregation in such a way, let it serve you honor, but to know that it is not right and then be kind, since you have violated the entire Rules of Procedure in such a way and acting in the same way. I've been thinking for an hour, at least Predrag Markovic will change, so he'll say, "Why should this Dinkic and Labus play tricks on me and discredit me in front of the MPs and in front of the public, delay the session or ask them to arrive urgently?" You don't hear from them, you don't have an answer where they are, or you know, and you won't tell us, or you're giving us a hint if the minister could come. In 15 minutes, you check out the coffee shop, and we're back here like nothing happened. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-18-0.u22174	It won't work, like I couldn't drink the coffee. It is precisely because of the self-respect and dignity of the Assembly, but since it is our obligation to save the citizens' money, we will certainly interrupt today's work, and we will continue the debate in detail after the sixth regular session ends on Monday. That way, savings will be achieved. I thank all the responsible MPs, who took part today in the debate and are ready and ready to continue their work in the future.
