ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law on the liability of a producer of a matter with a deficiency that I propose to delete in Article 1, paragraph 4. What's this about? Article 8 provides for a situation in which the manufacturer's liability is released and indent 4 says he will be freed of responsibility if "the lack arises as a result of the harmonisation of product characteristics with the prescribed norms". In my opinion, this is a pointless formulation in this bill, because if it is not the responsibility of the manufacturer, then it is the responsibility of the one who has prescribed such norms, I guess the state, in most cases, that it must compensate for the damage that has occurred. So, I don't think this provision is a place in this article, in this law. This can't even justify manufacturers in that way. I guess the motive for proposing and adopting this law is the protection of consumers, citizens, not the producer or state that has passed the regulations in this particular case, which have caused damage. So the question is who will be responsible, because someone has to be responsible and make up for it. Practically, it will always be under these paragraphs, specifically here is the 4th indent, the irresponsible manufacturer will be able to file his case and avoid any responsibility. I think if adopted, this bill can only remain a dead letter on paper, like many others, that we adopted in this assembly. I guess the goal at this time, when many, due to expectations of fast and easy profit, work unquality, don't meet production standards, so the goal is to stop it as much as possible. I suggest that this amendment be accepted in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21147	Anyone else want a word? Please, just say your name. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted because it improves this law. I called about something else. Since the president of the Assembly came out, and did not address the national minority of Muslim religion because of their holiday – 'Bayram', here, I am speaking publicly to all citizens of Serbia who belong to the Muslim religion, and I, too, belong to the SRS and I personally congratulate 'Bayram', a great Muslim holiday, to spend it in peace, tolerance, especially in harmony and joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21149	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21150	Ladies and gentlemen, here's another clean legal amendment. In a good intention to fix the law, it looks more like a legal-technical order, but even so, the minister didn't accept it, I don't know why. I'll tell you that the amendment applies to Article 8. In point 1 of this Article, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: Article 8 says, "The manufacturer will not be responsible if he proves that:'... , then indent 5 says "the level of scientific and technical knowledge at the time when the product was placed on the market did not allow the detection of the deficiency". First of all, it's not logical to formulate this kind of thing, because if someone put the product on the market, then they must have had to be responsible and have a proper profession that allows it to be a level of scientific and technical knowledge so that it could produce, or put into the market of goods without shortages. In addition, Article 7 of this same law provides that the manufacturer shall be liable for the damage caused by the lack of the product, whether or not he knew of the deficiency. Therefore, there is an obvious correlation between Articles 7 and 5 of Article 8. I don't think there's any reason, I was expecting the Justice and Administration Committee to accept this amendment, I don't know why, but I recommend that the MPs do so in the day of their vote. It really makes sense, logical and improves the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21151	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in Article 12, there is a great potential danger that, by the amendment I have tabled, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I want to prevent. Namely, the Proposer calls for certain ratified international agreements, i.e. contracts and Article 12. - which I ask to delete, says: "The provisions of this law do not apply to liability for damage caused by nuclear accidents and covered by ratified international contracts". We think it's not good because certain contracts, which I remember, ten years ago were in the field or were written pre-contracts like the Alba company, or some similar ones, caused a great deal of concern among citizens and the fear of the recycling of a certain type of waste, did not give God a recycling of nuclear waste, and that something like that could happen in certain areas of our country, as well as anything that was previously referred to by MPs from the Bor and Caucasian district, particularly Mr Penezic of Priboj, with examples that occurred there and harassed the public, including the case of the municipality of Topola, especially the village of Lipovac, where the locals managed to defend against the alleged consortiums and foreign partners, that there would start production that would endanger not only the village's life, but also the surrounding. There are such numerous examples, for which perhaps the wider public does not know, which have led me to submit an amendment on behalf of our parliamentary group, because what has been ratified in the agreement falls largely within the jurisdiction of the Assembly of the State Community, and as far as this law and this matter is concerned, we do not think that these things should be omitted, or that they should be subject to the laws and responsibilities of the producer for the things with lack, which is subject to Article 12. I think the gentleman should make a positive statement about this, because the government gave a negative answer. Absolutely does not have anything to do with earlier or future ratified agreements, this is prevention for the sake of making it clear that they are subject to the same responsibility. That is why I call on Members to take this amendment seriously in the voting day and to accept this amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21153	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the draft law on the responsibility of the producer of things with shortages, I am of the opinion that a common legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the former legal systems that are now included in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia should be considered, taking into account the legal rules in force. From all of this, taking into account that several legal regulations regulate this matter, which is approximate and similar or identical to this bill, I believe that it was not necessary to pass such an empty law. Why he's empty, now I'll try to explain it to you. Namely, the Law on Liabilities is far more celery, more meaningful, more comprehensively reflected in this issue in Articles 154 to 209. So, a total of 55 members related to the substance of the damage and responsibility of the perpetrator for the damage done. In addition, we have a Republic law on the conditions for the provision of traffic of goods, the provision of goods and inspection services which, also in its Article 37, regulates this matter far wider, more comprehensively and with sanctions resulting from the placing on the market of products with a shortage. Article 7 says, "The company and entrepreneurs selling the goods with shortages are obliged to single out the goods, to point out clearly the label that warns the sale of goods with shortages, to mark each sample of these goods and to lower its price." In addition, we have one federal, or republican law, which is the Law on Trade and Consumer Protection. In particular, this consumer protection law, which is far more comprehensive in this matter, is important. In the bill itself, I would refer to Article 4 which says, "There is a shortage if the product does not provide the safety that is rightly expected under all circumstances, including advertising, the purpose which is intended and the time when it is placed on the market". That's pretty incomplete. I think that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia we have similar matter, which is defined by the Consumer Protection Act, which says what is the lack in the product and related to the product. It says – there is a lack of necessary technical, technological, chemical, physical and other properties that are common to this type of product. So far wider and more precise determines what a lack of product is. As regards Article 5, in the case of damages, the damage has been defined by the Law on Liabilities, which is a system law, and I think the provision of Article 155 should be adopted before. The law on bond relations, which defines damage by reducing someone's property and preventing it from increasing and out of favour in case of damage. So we have material and immaterial damage. In this law, we have no immaterial damage, and I think it's a lack and a problem in the law. As far as Article 8 is concerned, – when excluding the producer's responsibility for the damage done, we have very undefined settings relating to certain indents defined here, and it is said that, the lack probably did not exist at the time when the product was placed on the market and that later appeared. It's a vague formulation of this attitude and this indentation. It is further said "he has not produced the product for sale and that the product is not produced within its regular activity" – it is irrelevant whether it is produced in regular or secondary activity, because the legislator here does not know secondary and main activity. If the product is on the market, it has come out, whether it is in the main or secondary activity. I think the law itself is how unacceptable it is. You will have to accept the position and interpretation of the SRS that as it is written and engaged, it is unacceptable and I suggest that it withdraw from the assembly procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21155	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21156	I'll just say a few things. Here is a few expert remarks that a man can accept or not. I have to say one thing -- it's like we forgot something. All European countries have a bond, all European countries have the protection of their citizens, but the European Union has adopted a directive for all of them to strengthen the responsibility of producers in relation to their citizens and their protection. I'll take an example, so it's clear. This could take a long-term lawsuit and never end if the product doesn't fit in all the ads. There's a simplified procedure here. Enough not to have one element you gave in the commercial, and you owe it to make up for the damage. It's about one extension of the responsibility of the manufacturer, with only certain exceptions that are mentioned here. We do not have to wait 10-15 years for us to enter the European Union and when we will enter without our citizens having that increased protection that the citizens of the European Union have. It doesn't cost us anything. The two objections put on this matter were about this issue and the question of the gift contract, because we have been indirectly regulated, but we do not have the gift institute regulated, so the same working group with Professor Perovic does so for days. As for these other two objections, I have one thing to say. If the product is manufactured and valid, but you know that certain standards change, our country accepts them and brings them. If the manufacturer agrees his product with the standard, why would he fit? Let the state answer. We totally agree here. In this way he even simplified the procedure, because this would prove that his product was fine, if he had brought it into line with standards and the party was losing the dispute. Why? Let the state pay if it has disrupted something by its standardisation, and the party suffers, or citizens. The same case is also related to the question of the level of scientific achievement. I think we can agree on certain things, but the fact is that science always goes forward. What do you want with this? That it will not fit if the product has satisfied all the conditions, or what was known at the scientific level at the time when the product was produced. If something had changed and something new had been discovered, why would he be responsible for what he didn't know? I'll take an example. Today we have a great fear of bird flu. There's no vaccine. We've got half-vaccinated vaccines. Why would he answer now if he was found the next day? I am saying what even the European Union has excluded from responsibility. Science is going, there's going to be something, and then it's certain that this product doesn't have all the conditions required by this new discovery, but it doesn't have to be responsible for the fact that science didn't go on at that point. As far as the damage to the nuclear incident is concerned, I think it's cleared up. We signed the convention, ratified it, and it's an integral part of our legal order. It's clearly foreseen when it fits. The convention was signed by other states. That is why she did not enter this law, looking at that binding directive of the European Union. If we had introduced that into this law, we would have doubled what was already provided for by the convention that we ratified and become an integral part of our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21157	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Laws which have been designated by the National MP Vojkan Tomic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer has accepted the amendment of the MP of the People's Council, Mr 4 with correction; Article 6, with correction; Article 7, with correction; Article 8, with correction; Article 10, with correction; Article 26, Article 27, Article 92 and Article 93; and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments, with corrections, are legally possible, so I will conclude that they have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal to: Article 4, with correction; Article 6, with correction; Article 7, with correction; Article 8, with correction; Article 10, with correction; Article 21, Article 26, Article 27, Article 92, and Article 93. Since there have been no other amendments, before I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, does proposal representative Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on judges You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the regulation of courts You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21158	As the new law changes the status of law enforcement authorities in courts and, accordingly, it also had to be amended by the Law on Courts and Judges, so that they could find their place in these system law on courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21159	Thank you. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF FUNDS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Nemanja Sarović, Milan Stevović, Vjerica Radeta, Lazar Cavic, Milovan Radovanović, Momir Marković, Bozidar Koprivica, Sreto Perić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Petar Jojić and Đorđe Mamula. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. A representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the legislator considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on violations. I am really surprised that neither Minister Stojkovic nor the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment because it is a purely professional amendment, it is a matter of legal matters. I tried this way to better define the concept of a violation, because Article 2. The law on violations refers to the determination of the concept of a violation, and the bill says: "The violation of a criminal offence has been carried out on a guilty basis by the law of the competent authority as a violation". According to the amendment proposed, Article 2 paragraph 1 is amended and reads: "A criminal offence has been committed against the public order, prescribed by law or by other regulation as a violation". So this definition given in the amendment is definitely, purely legally speaking, better, more precise, more comprehensive, and if party differences are neglected, I see no reason why this amendment is not accepted and I hope that the ruling majority will correct the error that this amendment has not yet accepted in the debate in principle, i.e. in the Committee's debate. I hope that in the voting day you will all vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21161	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21162	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of plowing with the chairman, of course, but I will shortly return to this almost completed bill of amendments to the law that sets fines for economic crimes and violations. Simply, despite the fact that the amendments made by his colleagues, Private Tomic, have become an integral part of this law, because they have been accepted on boards, by the government representatives and we have earlier claimed, we have our own opinion and the view that such amendments can be discussed here. I don't want to compromise, but I have to draw attention, because when we talked about this set of five or six laws, normally, no law can pay enough attention to itself because of the limited time and because it brings together a debate on several laws, and then, of course, the only opportunity for us to draw attention to fellow Members and the public of Serbia for some characteristic and significant things from the government's proposals is through discussion in particular. I am therefore sorry that the opportunity has been missed to argue that counterpart Vojkan Tomic, of course, in agreement with representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, has suggested that some penalties for economic crimes, let's say, be increased from 50,000 to three million dinars, from 10,000 to 200,000 dinars, from 1,000 dinars to 20,000 dinars, from 80,000 to 800, from 60 to 600. And why I had to say this for two reasons. The first reason is, obviously, and you will see now and in the law on violations and all the laws on the agenda, it is their essence that criminal provisions are increased several times, that the state is ensured, that the full budget from various penalties, of course, we do not think that it should not be punished for economic crimes, for crimes, but simply, we think that penalties must be more moderate and that they follow the economic situation of citizens in Serbia. The second reason I wanted to comment on this is the claims made by finance ministry officials, the National Bank, about some lies about inflation that rob Serbian citizens as if they didn't see what inflation is, because everyone can calculate based on the basic foods they buy daily, what inflation is. This is evidence, if some punishment increases, if the state proposes to increase from 50,000 to three million dinars, then of course it's clear to all what the state is preparing for us by the end of this year and in the following year. As for the draft law on infringements, or amendments to Article 5, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I will say very briefly when it comes to the law on infringements. The proposal as it is given - a fundamental change is that the authorities for the offences are transformed into courts for violations, and in that part we Serbian radicals have nothing against. On the contrary, we, in our party's programme of justice, have clearly defined how we see the judiciary in Serbia; we are only for the existence of basic courts, therefore, second-degree courts, and in exceptional cases, third-degree, or Supreme Court. So, we don't even see the organs for violations the way they've been figured out so far. It was through the history of these bodies, or walking from courts to authorities, but it was always something interesting that the judge for violations, in the circles of the other judges, were like judges of the lower order. We don't think it's right and we don't need it to be treated like that. This was particularly present during this period when the judges worked for violations in the authorities. The salaries of these judges are much less than the salaries of regular judges. Conditions for work, here, in every city, look at the conditions of judges for violations. It is indeed, mostly in some barracks, in some auxiliary facilities. In Zemun you barely know how to come, to find, through some courtyards you have to go through and get to some facility with two rooms where five judges work for violations. Also, the material position of these judges in terms of resolving housing issues was never a priority to the state, nor did the ministry need to take care of them, because it was formerly the Ministry of Justice, and then the ministry was divided into the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, so a large number of these judges, and many judges for violations in Serbia, were somehow left to themselves. I know, often, when one of these colleagues competed to move to work, that is, to move to the office of a judge in a regular court, so the Justice Committee was also aware of some suspicion, something, like -- this one comes from a misdemeanour. Of course, he meets the conditions, he has a law school, he's got a legal exam. The fact that the state has set up judges for second-class violations, then the state has to make it right. That's why we Serbian radicals support the idea that law enforcement authorities are transformed into courts, because it really should be, because it was even illegal and unconstitutional what was happening in an earlier period so that the authorities for the offenses would sentence the prison, because the sentence of prison could only be brought to justice. So, it was all so messy, but it wasn't even regulated by this law. It's a good idea, but it's not arranged completely, completely or precisely, and again, you'll see, you'll have trouble applying this law. I can't miss the chance to mention the 2001 period when the judges for violations were under a special torture of Vladan Batic and the then-Government of Zoran Djindjic. It was that time, you remember everyone, I guess, when Vladan Batic called the Justice Department judges for violations, individually, each and every one of them in his cabinet for 20 seconds, there was a question of whether the Vucic Law had been applied. The answer - yes, and the second question was whether you wanted to join the DHSS, who responded with 'no', got fired, and who answered yes, stayed to work in the authorities for violations. It is also the sin of these governments, first those governments after Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, and then the government of Vojislav Kostunica, why all those judges, who were under such torture Vladan Batic, did not return to work in the meantime, because the only sin of those judges was that they applied the Information Act. They called it "Vučić's" law, and we're proud of what that law is called, because it's definitely a much better law than that which is now in force. Of course, we allow it to be something in that law and change, but I'm not talking about the Information Act right now, I'm talking about the law on violations, I'm talking about judges who, many of them, have been having a dispute, come to the Supreme Court's decision, and based on the Supreme Court's decision to get back to work, but until today, they haven't become judges for violations. The elders took them in, brought them back to work because they had the Supreme Court's decision, so what they're going to do is they have to respect the decision, but again in order not to resent their colleagues from the government, then they came up with a solution – that these people are not judges, but that they're doing some cooperative work in the body for violations. In the principle debate, I told Minister Stojkovic, and not only this time, but several times whenever something comes from the judicial area on the agenda, I remind him of the obligation that these judges should return to work. Of course, it has so far been in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and is the correct address to which it is addressed. Now there's fear. After these experiences that I've been talking about and that's why I've mentioned it, there's one legitimate fear of what's going to happen now with all the judges for the offenses. There will be no automation to make all judges for violations, who are now in the law enforcement body, judges in courts, in regular courts. A competition will be called, a election through the High Council of Justice, through the Committee and ultimately through this parliament. Now I'm afraid and we're afraid that someone will abuse that possibility to question the High Council of Justice. Yesterday we talked all day about what we think about the work of the High Council of Justice and now I ask you: if out of a hundred judges for violations of all hundred normally compete to return to work as judges, as regular judges, and the High Council here suggests 40 of them - how do we ensure that those 60 continue to be judges, because there is no reason, there is nothing in their working biography that would be a distraction for them to continue to be judges? So this will certainly be a problem in the period of adaptation to this law, i.e. these deadlines left by law until its final application. It will be a problem for both the Serbian Government and the High Council, of course, if our hunches are true, then there will be a problem in this parliament, but here we hope that the High Council of Justice will also make sure that it does not abuse what exists in the legal system at all, although it does not exist in the Constitution of Serbia. Finally, a few words about the amendment to Article 5, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted. The title – the type and purpose of criminal sanctions and Article 5 – "Fraud sanctions are: penalties, warnings, safeguards and educational measures". The amendment intervened to add here – working in the public interest or criminal points with the cancellation of the driver's license. In the second point: "The purpose of regulation, pronunciation and the application of criminal sanctions is to respect the citizens," says here, "the justice system and that no one in the future commits an offence", and we said that they should – citizens respect public order and legal system. So, I think the amendment, I would say more, is a legal-technical nature and again an extremely professional amendment, because it provides for precision, we think we need to specify precisely the types of criminal sanctions that include "work in the public interest and criminal points with the cancellation of the driver's license". It is certainly good to point out in particular and to give importance to the public order in this law. I don't know why, when we talked on the Committee on Justice and Administration about these amendments, the minister just said, "No, I don't, we haven't heard any arguments, and we don't even have the government's opinion." It's always kind of awkward for me to talk about amendments if I don't have the government's opinion, that at least through that paper, I could compromise with the Serbian government. So, I know the Minister on the Committee has not accepted this amendment, but here I recommend that the MPs vote on this amendment in the day of voting. You will see, read the amendment and insert these words that we added to this article of the law, you will see that this Article 5 only makes that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21163	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. A representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21164	Article 13. The bill refers to the necessary defence. We have submitted the amendment, Mr. Lazar has submitted it on behalf of the SRS, because we disagree with this new innovation of the concept of necessary defence. The promoter considers it necessary to change first and foremost the position of the 2rd and 3rd members. Paragraph 2 reads: "It is necessary that defence is necessary that a doer of his own good or of the good of another refuses at the same time an illegal attack." As you've seen here, the right to self-help is for good. The broader interpretation can be considered both life and honor and dignity and some material value, but for the practice and for the sake of the habit that already exists we believe that the already existing definitions and necessary defences and extreme necessity are quite solid and acceptable. We are asking for the first part of our amendment to return this definition to the existing one, but at the same time we are asking for a correction to be made in the event of an over-demand of the necessary defence, when the attacked person with a much greater force retaliates, so that there is a kind of change in position between those two persons, the one who was attacked and the one who carried out the attack, and in the end much greater damage manifests itself in the primary attacker. It's this kind of way of overcoming the necessary defense. We're also asking for a correction in attitude 3. Item 3 has two sentences: a perpetrator who has exceeded the limits of the necessary defense can be fined. A second sentence - if this excess is made under particularly expedient circumstances, the perpetrator will not be held accountable for the offence. We ask that every excess remain there, that it can only cause milder punishment, because the fact that any overrun by the very definition of overstepping the necessary defense appears is an incomparably greater force to remove the attack from the intensity of the attack itself. In this way, it is perfectly justified that the attacked person be potentially more lightly punished for the event of overstepping, and, no, he cannot be released from responsibility by the very fact that he is created in the third presumption that there is no offence. It's really strange that this isn't accepted, because what we're asking for with our amendment with this member and with the next member referring to the ultimate necessity is just precision, something that theory and practice have long accepted. There are a number of solutions, views of court practice, and we believe that this should be maintained in the new law, there is no need to change and to go with some new definitions that can create a major problem in future practice. That is the purpose of this amendment. This few MPs I try to convince that the text of the amendment is better than the text of the proposed member and the fact itself if it simplifies it is a case of public order violations with, say, the use of physical force where a person attacks on the street and then the natural right of every man is to defend himself, to protect his physical integrity. He is authorized to use force only to the extent necessary and necessary to remove this simultaneous counter-attack from another person, so whether the attack applies to the person or to the good, in the end it is not so decisive for the text of this member. It is important that in this way, the right and the irresponsibleness of the person should be potentiated if they apply the right to use self-help. We believe that this should be accepted and called on MPs, i.e. I call on the present MPs to inform their MPs who are not present here that this amendment is subjugated by theory and practice, that a far better solution in the amendment than what was proposed in the law, that they have in mind that when the government, in the form of its minister, responded that it did not accept this amendment, it gave no explanation, because it simply could not be explained. What could be explained by the challenge of this amendment? There's nothing to argue with. So, you can freely accept this amendment, it does not go into those issues where we do not agree in principle, and it concerns the organisation of a future body that needs to decide on violations. This amendment can be freely accepted and calmed down that, if this amendment is adopted, a better solution will be realised in this new text of this article than the one proposed by the Government. I must draw your attention, according to this definition of the necessary defence given by the Government, (paragraph 2 and Section 3) – it is necessary to form a new court practice. At this point, we do not have the need to form some new court practice, because the existing definition in the law with some small correction that we are implementing the amendment meets the needs and intensity of criminal liability.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21165	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 14 concerning extreme urgency and Mr. Milovan Radovanovic had in mind a very important legislative provision. Namely, it is about the elements of an extreme necessity which is otherwise explained and defined by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia in the best form and variants. All theory and all practice comes from the fact that the ultimate necessity is primarily intended to remove the unsub from himself or from someone else, and only then from one of his own good or from another's good certain hidden dangers. So, what has been known in the legal theory so far is that the ultimate necessity applies first to a natural person, whether it's a perpetrator of a crime or possibly a perpetrator of a crime, and then it's another person, and only in the next sense should it be rejected by someone of their own good or of someone else's good. The point of Mr. Radovanovic's amendment is that, if it is a violation that removes the unfettered danger from itself or others, it is not subject to a certain criminal responsibility. It's completely argumentative, normal and life-long logical. We can't bend something now that's been defined like this ever since. So, if the perpetrator removes the unfettered danger from himself or from another, there is no reason for him to be subject to a certain breach of responsibility, of course, if it is within certain limits, if it is not overstepping that extreme necessity. For these reasons, we believe that this amendment, which was submitted by Mr Radovanovic, only precisely regulates what is the term of extreme urgency and this concept of extreme urgency in the law of violations is fully compatible with what we said when defining the ultimate necessity in the Criminal Code. Nothing has changed either in European law or in any similar right in this climate to remove danger from ourselves or from another natural person from the concept of extreme urgency. After all, it can never be the legislator's intensity to protect someone better than we protect the good of life. So we protect physical and physical integrity, ourselves, but also someone else. In that sense, this amendment is fully in line with all European standards and rights on violations, and this was also in the previous law on infringements. It should give the fat reasons why the legislator, i.e. the promoter, is now ousting this section and segment from extreme urgency. In this sense, I appeal to all the MPs that, when deciding and voting on the law in particular, they have in mind these provisions that I have now said, they have in mind this amendment by Mr Radovanovic, they accept it, because this will improve this part of the law, and that will give us a complete law that corresponds to that criminal notion of extreme necessity. There is no reason to suppress these concepts, there is no reason that although the law on violations is a theory, it deals with something else in relation to what criminal and legislative matter is involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21167	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21168	I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 15, and I believe that the current version of Article 15 of the Law on Infringements is very narrow and very restrictive in relation to the exclusion of criminal liability. Namely, the title itself now reads – Force and threat. I must remind you that the title in the previous law on violations is: Force, threat and coercion. So, in no word in the explanation, the legislator does not say why he deleted the coercion as a form, if it exists, it excludes a criminal liability, or it's nice to say that there is no offence if the action is prescribed as an offence committed under the influence of force and threat. Article 14 of the previous Law says that one who commits an offence is not responsible under the influence of force, threat and coercion. So we're talking about a restrictive interpretation of both force and threat. I would point out that if it is a matter of force and threat, there are no violations, and if the action is prescribed as an offence, there will be no criminal prosecution or liability. But what does it matter here? It is important that in the legal theory very often under duress they involve both force and threat. That's right. However, if there is both force and threat, we cannot rule out coercion. So, what does the title itself refer to – force. For example, it is possible that it is a higher major, a higher force, so someone has committed an offence under the influence of some more force, a force that stands by a natural person and he will not be prosecuted, nor will he have criminal responsibilities. But if that force comes from a physical person, then we're saying it's a coercion. In that sense, it is necessary to force it to stand in this article. We've got to put it on. I don't know why a legislator or a legislator won't include coercion. The same situation is with the threat. In coercion, there may be a threat contained, but coercion is one broader form than the threat itself. So, it may be a threat coercion, but we have to make sure that these are special legal institutes. So, I'm talking about force as a special legal institute that excludes the existence of an offence, or more specifically, the existence of a criminal liability. These are the reasons why the SRS has defined that the title above Article 15 stands – 'and coercion' and that in the text, which follows below, Article 15 is also a duress. I say, coercion is a special legal institute that must exclude the existence of an offence, or excludes the existence of a criminal liability. So I ask you to really vote for this amendment in the voting day, because it is completely logical and fits into everything that we have discussed so far with regard to criminal matter and with regard to litigation. Nothing, if this amendment is adopted, will be questioned by any other provision of the law on violations, because this article only improves the text which is otherwise quite defiled. I asked, I wanted, I called in a principle debate, to have someone tell us from the promoter why, for example, the coercion was erased. It has to be said in two or three words, which is why we're erasing the coercion from the title and the element, as criminal responsibilities. I don't think we've got an argument until this point, which is why it's done. If there are valid reasons, if this is a new attitude, if we haven't had it so far, and we need to classify it, to tell us why, how, in what way, and what kind of repercussion will have on a misdemeanor procedure that doesn't apply coercion here right now. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21169	Thank you, Mr. Stevovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21170	Article 17. The bill has the title: "entities and conditions of responsibility". As a panda for this in criminal matter, it's called "individual criminal responsibility." This is where it's supposed to be: the basis of a criminal liability. Momira Markovic's amendment requires a certain correction in position 5. The promoter, in fact, doesn't know what a legal person is, as can be seen from the proposed text of this attitude. In the infringement proceedings, the legal person is responsible and, if I may say so, the criminal proceedings in which the legal person is responsible and, of course, the responsible person in the legal person as another type and the very specific criminal liability of the legal person. However, it is noted in paragraph 5 that the proposer does not distinguish what a legal person is in a regular procedure and what a legal person is over which bankruptcy proceedings are opened. So there's a difference. A year and a half ago we passed a new Law on bankruptcy, it was said there that bankruptcy is being implemented to achieve two objectives: the first goal is bankruptcy, the destruction of a legal person that no longer exists, with the settlement of creditors, if possible, etc.; the second form is a kind of reorganisation, training of a legal person with different modes. In this Law, we have prescribed that the business of the bankruptcy manager is done by licensed bankruptcy managers, and when it comes to social or state-owned enterprises, the privatisation agency is doing those jobs. What's the problem? The problem is that the government proposes in point 5. - "A legal person who is in bankruptcy is responsible for the offence committed before opening or during bankruptcy proceedings, but cannot be punished, but only a safeguard measure of confiscation of the case and confiscation of property benefit." So this is a situation where it is found that the offence was committed prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings, when it was a regular business or during the bankruptcy proceedings. If the offence is committed in the course of bankruptcy, then the legal person, with the follow-up, responds to bankruptcy. Therefore it cannot be said that the legal follower of that person, with the same name, is only by contrast that there was no such thing as bankruptcy. Therefore, it is much better to reshape this position in the sense that the legal person found in bankruptcy is responsible for the offence committed before the opening or during the bankruptcy proceedings, because it exists, the fact is, little in the changed form of bankruptcy proceedings and that after the word "proceeding", new words are added – "in addition to the sentence imposed for the offence committed, a safeguard measure of confiscation of the case and confiscation of the property benefit can be imposed." So the legal person in bankruptcy is also guilty. Since it's trespassing, it can take all the criminal sanctions. So to impose punishment and some of these measures, because in order to make some difference or that would be irresponsibly irresponsible, it should no longer exist. Here is the fact that it exists in some modified form, because it is located in a kind of custody on the side until the bankruptcy or reorganisation process is completed and the training of that company for further work, since in the course of the bankruptcy proceedings mutual claims and obligations that this legal person has towards other persons, which occurred during business. So we insist that the company in bankruptcy also be held guilty. Since it is criminally responsible, it can suffer all sanctions provided for by the law on violations, means also fines and all these other measures, and not what the Government proposes - that other measures can be imposed, confiscation of property benefit, confiscation of the case, but cannot be fined to be imposed. Why? What is this justifiable reason why you can't fine? It is possible that on the current account of bankruptcy companies there are funds to collect fines, such as those provided for here and during bankruptcy proceedings, not only those carried out before the bankruptcy proceedings were initiated, but also during the bankruptcy proceedings. Probably all violations of a legal person during bankruptcy proceedings shall be subject to bankruptcy. There's no other way. Why would he be released? First of all, I mean the legal person when I say "he," not the bankruptcy manager. A bankruptcy manager would probably be responsible as a responsible person in a legal person. But we are really concerned that we do not have an answer and the government's position on these amendments. Not present in the hall those who say: you radicals are submitting the amendments "clear", here are the amendments that do not ask to be deleted, but to correct the text, and yet you from the ruling coalition remain silent. I know you 15 who are here resisting nothing, but it is also known that the government has important functions, important jobs, this about Kosovo and everything else, but it has to respect the National Assembly and it has to be made known about this. We're not here in some private session, we look at each other, we put our finger on our foreheads, and we think a lot and we come to some conclusion – and you know that this law will apply the most. Just look at the data on the number of infringements, the number of violations, etc., this law is applied daily. You know how this is going from spring to autumn, and this law is applied every day to all places in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and it is known that the judge for the offenses imposes penalties according to the current law, and it is likely that for some time your municipal courts for violations will impose penalties under this law, so it doesn't matter to you. This particular article refers to the fundamentals of criminal liability, Article 5 refers to the liability of the legal person, as a specific form of responsibility. As you can see, we are asking for this equality to be established in terms of punishment. Of course, we don't go into those basics of disfellowshipping liability because it's not the substance of the 5th position of this member. Please, when voting day you are present to inform the absent to press the green button for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21171	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21172	Article 34 is set out in Chapter IV of the Bill of Law with the great title "Punity" and begins with Article 28. - "Types and purpose of punishment." In order to understand this intervention, proposed by Mr Koprivica as regards Article 34, I must, as an introduction, specify what is set out in Article 28. - "For a violation, prison sentences, fines, public-interest work or penalty points can be prescribed with the cancellation of the validity of the driver's license." These other members regulate these fines, but article 34 has the title "Punity Points". Paragraph 1 states: "Traffic traffic security violations on the roads can be prescribed by law in the range of 1 to 18". The penalty point itself, by definition, is not a sanction. I don't know if you understand me. For example, he passed a car to a red light, and probably in the Traffic Safety Act, five or six points will be provided for, the fact that the fine was charged which he went through red and got those five criminal points, but the penalty points by definition are not sanctions because she doesn't suffer anything. The penalty didn't pull him off to pay his fine, the penalty didn't send him to jail, the penalty didn't take his license. I don't know if you understand me, the penalty point by definition is not sanctions. He's the condition that there's a sanction later. That's why he doesn't belong here. In that sense, Mr. Koprivica has submitted an amendment, so for these reasons, because there's been a bit of a mix-up. But in view of this newspaper, which we don't need to argue against in principle, because we need to stop that Russian roulette and that nonsense that's happening on our roads where innocent people are killed and that's what needs to be prevented. It's probably one way to prevent drivers from following traffic rules in the future. But in order to sanction this as a sanction of a law that has a general character and general meaning, which is the basis for all sanctions in other material regulations, when it comes to this kind of sanctions that you have provided here, it was necessary that we at the same time discuss the material regulation that follows this sanction – the Transport Safety Act, simply, to make one logical link. The law lists cases that draw criminal points. Now I'm talking in my head, probably a major offense is two full lines when someone's out of line, so whether it's one or five points, but it's supposed to be pulling some penalty points. Driving in a populated place 50 or 60 percent more than a limited speed law, probably giving some points. In these criminal points, it is likely that the fact of the consequences that is very significant, even if the person involved in the car accident, probably from the very fact that he participated, even if it should be a contribution to that accident to the sense of guilt and one percent withdraws some penalty points. So, what's written in article 34 today, we can't discuss it until we have a material regulation. That's the first drawback. Another flaw is that the penalty point itself is not a sanction, because sanctions may be deprived of liberty and go to prison for a while, sanctions may be that he is forbidden to drive or fine, but the penalty does not cause any sanctions. Just the fact that he pays the judge for violations of sentence and gets a penalty point and will probably be there to sign up for a driver's license, etc. does not cause sanctions. If he's got two points, he's still driving the car. For getting two points, he didn't pay anything. So this isn't the place. There's another problem. You are going to termology here to cancel the permit: "If the driver has received 18 or more penalty points over two years, the court hereby annuls his driver's license" – therefore it is necessary for the other law here to go parallelly. When does the court do that? Who's to tell the court that he got 18 points? How does the court find out there are 18 points? The driver's license is invalidated. The driver's license is one solution made in the administrative procedure, as well as a traffic permit. It's a final administrative act. How can the final administrative act be annulled? It cancels out based on official surveillance. So, there can't be sanctions, I'm canceling your license. A sanction can be a restraining order for three years or four years. But cancelling your license?- I'm sorry. I think there will be problems with the Law on General Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes. We agree on the concept that in some ways it is necessary to prevent this rampage, possibly also the introduction of such points, etc. The way you're trying to implement this, we don't think it's in accordance with the Constitution or the laws. The penalty point is not sanctions, it's not punishment. Secondly, the final administrative act cannot be annulled. The final administrative act may be annulled under the law of official supervision. The last instance to assess the legality of the annulment act is the Supreme Court, in charge of administrative disputes, that is, when you make those administrative courts of yours, probably administrative court. You've now given this administrative matter to the court of law. So there's going to be a big legal problem here. That's why I think it's wrong of you to write "repeals the driver's license." I think it's a lot better that you've been measuring with an extended duration. So far it's been three months, six months, etc. Feel free to extend, since it's coming right in a year, to three years. Go to it, it's already some kind of sanctions. This is already a administrative matter. It is a fundamental lack of this article in 34th and therefore Mr. Koprivica has submitted this amendment – "is deleted". Why does it delete? Not because we don't support this idea, but because the way you want to do it is the opposite of the Constitution, the provisions of constitutionality and legality, and the opposite of some theory that still applies to us. That was our proposal. I don't think it's any problem for you to agree to this provision, if you respect these arguments that we have made on this amendment. It's not good to ruin one good idea with technical solutions. This is a good idea. There's order to be seduced. There's a bully, there's real thugs on the way. It doesn't matter, two tapes, he's going, he's running everything. You remember here in downtown Belgrade, these Karics who step on it. They have money, so they can step on everything. Permission is withdrawn, of course. Or, these kids who do drugs, and then they sit down and chase down the main streets, who's faster, or the other way around. I think it's a Russian roulette when it's going the other way, so all those poor people who go have to stay away. You had a chance a year ago at three o'clock in the morning to see that car crash, just when the National Assembly session ended, that some merced with a Mercedes broke one car and stopped traffic at three o'clock in the morning, when no one was there, and the MPs had to run down the sidewalk so they wouldn't be run over by a lunatic who sat in a car. Some order must be seduced, because the deaths of the people on the roads and the state must intervene. We're very supportive here, but the methodology of how you thought to implement it, we think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21173	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21174	What Ambassador Krasic explained, in fact, is a more professional matter. Here it was thought that it was the general law in which it should contain the minimum, i.e. The kind of punishment, the one from 1-18 and the annulment. It was left to all the other laws that were passed from that area to regulate when, how many points, how and so on. It was simply intended to be achieved in the same way as in the Criminal Code, to know what kind of punishments they were, that they could not by special law impose new penalties that were not intended at all. I completely agree that the best situation was that the Public Traffic Safety Act was here at the same time, so that they would get the other part – when, how many points for which offense and how much to sign up for, how the license is annulled. I completely agree that this would be the most ideal situation. This is where we wanted us not to get into a situation where that law would invent some new sanction that wasn't provided for by this general law. That was it. Otherwise, there is no dispute that the best thing was that both laws were.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21175	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21176	If the accountant makes a fake bill, do we take his diploma to end up as an accountant? If the doctor misfires, so the patient dies, let's make it a case that it's proven, although it's hard for us to prove it, it's enough just to give him any diagnosis, so he ruled out his responsibility. Is he taking away his diploma? He's not being taken away from his diploma. Now you've arrested some judges, what was, where, apparently, the opposite of the law did some things. Let's see how many judges are being prosecuted for criminal offenses by judges. There isn't. If a first-degree court judge 17 times insists on his original position that his neighbor, Pera, gets a lawsuit, even though the Supreme Court and everyone has warned him, is his degree in law school being taken away? It's not being taken away, but it's starting the procedure, it's supposed to be a solution. Practically, this is where you take a diploma to a man. What's a driver's license? The diplomas that a man is trained to drive a motor vehicle. Based on that, he gets to manage. Based on his degree in law school, he gets the right to do some legal profession work. Based on his degree in medical school, he's entitled to be treated under certain conditions. What is the point of Article 34, you wrote in the title – the penalty point. The penalty point is not a sanction. It's a sanction when you put him in jail, so he's deprived of his freedom. The penalty is when you punish him for having to pay, so he doesn't pay, then you write down and charge. Protective measures, security measures are some other sanctions, sort of. You've placed an administrative act here, an outrage of sanctions on an administrative act. That's what this is about. That's why I told you it's better that you've predicted as a measure of seizing a driver's license, banning management for a period of two, three, four, five years, etc. That's the idea we wanted to give you, not the "punishment point" here. The penalty point doesn't mean anything here. Secondly, you said here that the penalty points, by the logic of things, are spoken by the judge. What's the situation? Maybe some offense, which the traffic participant committed, is pulling a penalty. But he paid on the spot, so he doesn't come to the records. Have you thought about it? So it was twice. At the same time, this law and the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, so that the whole thing can be seen. The other thing is to move this to another chapter, with the change of this "repealing" to "abduction and banning management". That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21177	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21178	Since Mr Stojkovic was not in the O.R. earlier when I spoke about a previous amendment, I will repeat that when we spoke on the Justice Committee about the amendments that we submitted to this law, we did not engage in any discussions at the time, only you ministers said which amendments you did not accept, and for that reason I said it would be good to have the Government's opinion here on the amendments that we have submitted, which you did not accept on behalf of the Government. I know you have the authority to accept the amendments on behalf of the government, but it would be really good to hear that some amendment has not been accepted. I am sure it would be very interesting to hear the opinion why the amendment to Article 46, which Bozidar Koprivica, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, was not accepted. The title above that article is – Types of protection measures, and then it is said:''The offences can be prescribed by the following safeguard measures: 1st confiscation of the case, 2nd ban on performing certain activities, 3rd ban on the legal person to perform certain acts, 4th banning the responsible person from performing certain tasks, 5th ban on driving a motor vehicle, 6th mandatory treatment of alcoholics and junkies, 7th ban on access to damaged, objects or the place of execution, 8th public publication of the verdict, 9th distance of foreigners from the territory of the Republic of Serbia'.' In point 2, you say, "The protective measures of confiscation of the case, mandatory treatment of alcoholics and drug addicts and the distance of foreigners from the territory of the Republic of Serbia may be imposed under the conditions laid down in this law and when no regulation establishing a violation is provided for." The amendment that Boižidar Koprivica has made refers to point 1 and the proposal is to delete point 7 in this position. Item 1 reads: "The following safeguards can be prescribed for infringements"; point 7 says: "No access to damaged, objects or place of enforcement". We think this is a completely unconstitutional solution, and when we talked about the draft law on violations in principle, then we said that your members were 46, 68 and 54 unconstitutional, and now I'm going to go specifically to Article 46. I have deliberately read the whole article in order to get the right picture of what this article is about and what it is about; all eight points are fine, it should stand, but, 'no access to damaged, objects or the place of execution' is impossible to norm, because it is indeed a limit to basic human rights and freedoms, and that is why it is contrary to our Constitution, or it is unconstitutional. Let's say, at some store in C Market - I'm having a fight there with some saleswoman, I can kill myself, I commit a crime, I answer for this offense, I pay the fine, and does that mean that I can't go anywhere in Serbia anymore to any C market facility? It means what's written here, not that I can't go into that store, where I committed a crime, but I can't go near any C-market facility. It's simply not possible and it's not sustainable. I think it would be really good, Minister, and now you can, even though you didn't do it on the Justice Committee, accept this amendment and delete this ban. How are you going to fight two people in the building, live in the same building, fight there somewhere in the pub, and whether the one responsible is the one who caused the fight, who is responsible for the offense; does this mean that he can no longer return to live in his apartment, he must not approach the object, he must not approach the damaged man, and he must approach him, because they meet in the elevator, in the entrance, in the building. You know, it's just unsustainable, when something is proposed then you have to look a little bit at what it's all about in life in the application of things, what implications a certain member of the law can have. Imagine now, the judge says there's someone who got into a fight in front of some building that he shouldn't, he's being banned from that facility, and the facility is his apartment. It's impossible. So if you ministers do not accept that this amendment is adopted, I hope that the MPs in the voting day will take this seriously and vote in favour of this amendment, because each of us and of our friends, acquaintances, relatives, will be in a position to have unscrupulous consequences by applying this article, or point 7) of Article 46. So I urge you, Minister, to remove this unconstitutional nature of this bill, because this is unconstitutional, is a violation of basic human rights and I ask you to accept this. If not you, then I call on fellow Members to accept the amendment in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21179	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21180	I suppose the idea for this kind of safeguard measure, that is, the kind of protection measure, the ban on access to damaged, objects or the place of execution, came probably from problems that exist with certain fans. So there is a possibility that they are banned from accessing a sports facility, and probably this is the idea found in some of the provisions of the marriage law, as it is now called, where the right of a member of a family household is denied because of the abuse of other household members to join an object, and even it was in its possession. If in some laws that have already been passed we have something, and now it's associated with this kind of protective measure, I think that you had to limit this in some way, that is, to the point that you did it in article 54 where you prescribed it, you only tied it to the court's decision. However, by this law and other regulations where it will be specifically prescribed whether this protection measure goes with it, because it is the matter of the second law, I think that it should be approached as restrictively as possible in determining cases and situations where this safeguard measure can be imposed. It is good that there are very few provisions in this concept of law that speak of mandatory safeguards, more and more are given to the court to assess, in principle, whether there are room for protection measures. I think you should take this amendment as some kind of warning and appeal to define as restrictively as possible the possibility of applying this safeguard measure. So it only limits to those cases where it's potentially necessary. So I took two examples, the public is well-known, we have people going to football games, not for football, but for energy. I know it's meant to be in that law, but it wasn't possible to apply it, because it didn't know how to apply it. I know that something about the Marriage Act is also a provision, and I think there are two other laws, and I couldn't tell you exactly who they are, where one of these options is also foreseen. However, in its essence, this must be applied restrictively and it must be interpreted, above all, as a restriction in terms of new material regulations where the basis for applying such a thing would be given. It is very difficult here now to comment on a law adopted in the National Assembly and entered into force, and I now do not know whether it is applied or not, or whether there has been some delay in time. We were the great opponents of those provisions, the ways in which cases of domestic abuse, even those measures, were defined there. So, simply, under the influence of this women's lobby in the National Assembly, one pressurized, one pressure - either you are or you are not. If you are for that member, then you are good, if you are not, you are the one who hates people, etc. The point was not that, but that some solutions were such that they significantly violate property rights, and the right property is sacred, after the right to life and the right to freedom, probably the most significant right is human freedom that exists. To ask: Why, if she suffers from abuse, why not divorce, and solve the problem, she says, "No, she's been married for so many years, there must be something left for her too?"- I'm sorry. That was an explanation. Since I know it was a bad solution, all of it could have been done in a different way, that's what I have to say. We have so far had in the Law on Marriage some jobs in the jurisdiction of the Centre for Social Work, when relations between parents and children were at stake, where they could apply some measures etc. It simply does not exhaust the possibilities of one regulation, but it is going to another regulation and then some new solutions are being introduced. I don't dispute these solutions that are being inserted here. Maybe they exist in the Netherlands, in Germany, and probably there are some results, but they can't exist with us because they're contrary to the Constitution, mentality and the way they live here. That doesn't mean I'm appealing that everyone should knock out their wife, far away. No, but that's how he introduced himself here. When they reach this female line (which they want to be at all costs vice presidents in their party, only because they are women), when they catch it to explain, so when these NGOs and these media organizations pump up, then they get the impression -- this is where women get slaughtered. It's not like that. Let's define the problem, the way that this problem can be solved without jeopardizing something that is also another human right. In that sense, interpret this endeavor that if you are already pushing into the material provisions of this measure, then make sure that it is limited, that certain conditions are put in place, because there is always a danger of not jeopardizing any other freedom. There's a danger of not jeopardizing some other freedom, because you know, we're protecting ourselves from something, we're getting into a trap for something else. In that sense, it is also necessary to interpret this amendment which has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21181	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21182	It is a member with a title – Expressing protective measures. Mr. Markovic has submitted an amendment to paragraph 4 which says, "The safeguard measure is pronounced by the court". The amendment requires that words be added – "and the authority of the state administration". Now, let's not make it seem like we're pleading that the authorities of the state administration are expressing safeguards, since there's an obvious urgency here that these future measures are merely pronounced by the court as a breaking body, we notice that there is now a discrepancy of this provision, not just the provisions of Article 47. A bill, rather than a whole complex of these provisions with Article 285 and some other members of this bill. This law on violations has not left the concept that the authorities of the state administration can, in accordance with the law, conduct a misdemeanour procedure. If someone thinks that after this law, all the violations go to court, they're wrong. There remains customs, tax administration, and other authorities of the state administration, with some restrictions being given that they cannot be imposed in proceedings before those state authorities, in infringement proceedings before those authorities of the state administration, a prison sentence, because only a court can impose. A fine is possible and a restriction is given that it cannot impose safeguards. That's where the proposer would have to end up identifying whether it's for a full concept that the court only says safeguard measures. If it's for that concept, then I have to say it's a side measure, it's not the main measure. It's impossible for a secondary measure to have more significance than punishment. One who is fined for a violation for which the protection measure is intended only by means of fines gets a safeguard measure. If he's not fined, he won't get protection. It's very simple. Now, according to this concept, as the government suggests, the customs authority has to fine him, and to do a pretty good job of trimming him, and the protective measure in some new procedure has to give him a court order, like taking a vehicle. The ban on the responsible person to perform certain tasks, the ban on a legal person to perform certain actions, bans, confiscation of objects, I did all these others, and I did not take this first one – confiscation of the case, there is no logic. Then the question arises, and what was the customs authority doing? He used the Customs Code provisions, which would have to change after this. He would have to change, because it wouldn't be possible for this law to come into force and start applying, and we still have the old Customs Code. It's precisely because of these provisions on misdemeanor and protective measures. We're going to have a situation where the customs authority finds some kind of misdemeanor, conducts a misdemeanor, sentences a fine, and by the logic of the matter, maybe there should be even a safeguard measure of confiscation of the case, he moves the case completely to court, by the time he gets to court, there's no case, there's nothing. The object that needs to be taken away, it's gone, it's gone. They're capable of you there. Take the tax offenses where some kind of safeguard goes. That concept has to change in some way. The government has to define what concept it's going to be. If she accepts this as a safeguard measure only by court, she is a secondary measure, the main punishment is the one who judges, the one who imposes the penalty, he should also impose a safeguard measure. If the concept is that everything goes to court, then let us release both taxes and other organs of the obligation to conduct a mistrial and transfer everything to court. Here is where the court is now formed for violations, and it is said in the beginning – but not all violations go to court, but some remain with the authorities of the state administration. It was sometimes possible when the municipal authority for the offences was in another status, it was not a court, but a specific authority, perhaps more the authorities of the administration than the court. In one undefined, a special position was a judge of offense, and then there was some excuse that a part of the misdemeanor procedure, some misdemeanor proceedings could be conducted by the government's authority. Now that you've transferred everything or you want to transfer everything to court, then there's no way it's gonna stay part of a customs offense or a tax administration, there's no excuse. You see, there's a little bit of a break in it, and there's a lack of the concept of law. This bill has no concept. There will be papasiania and the authorities for the violations that are so-so-functioning will be destroyed. Yeah, it's hard to get a man out there, 'cause if a cop turns you in, he's already guilty. It's a brief procedure, a misdemeanor procedure, an immediate determination of responsibility and sanctions. This shows the wrong and unclear concept of the legislator, when it comes to the Law on Violations. If the concept is based on the fact that everything goes to the courts for violations, then the provisions of Article 285 above should not exist. If he thinks he can be the concept of a little organ administration, a little court, then it's not in accordance with the Constitution. Is it possible that one thing could be a violation, could be both a administrative matter and a judicial matter. Well, that's impossible, people. That's impossible! That's why it's better for the government to come out with its concept that until the end of the term is consistent, not this little left, a little right. I know it's hard to take away customs violations and tax offences from Dinkic, but if that's the situation, then don't make municipal courts for violations. The problem is how to punish a prison, whether a judge can sentence a prison, and not a court. The question arises: Is the judge responsible for the violations or the person responsible for criminal punishment, perhaps that name is more appropriate to him? The court can only impose a sentence of imprisonment, not a judge for violations. That's the standard of Europe, so if you go to that standard, then write it down. This is how we get the situation a little customs, a little court. The court is in charge only because the customs offence is subject to a safeguard measure, and if it were not a safeguard measure, it would be a competent customs authority. That can't be right! You can't do that! Is it worth talking to you, but please inform those of you who decide on this law that there are big problems, big holes with this law. In practice, this law will create even bigger problems than you could see what kind of problems will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21183	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21184	Article 50. The draft law on violations speaks of a ban on a legal person to carry out certain acts. He says, "The ban on the legal person to perform certain activities consists of a ban on the production of certain products or of the conduct of certain transactions in the areas of the transport of goods, finance and services or in the prohibition of the doing of other specific tasks." We don't have any objections here, that would be a safeguard against the main penalty. Article 2 states: "If the regulation laying down the infringement does not specifically provide for conditions for a safeguard measure, the measure can be said if further exercise of certain activities would be dangerous to the lives or health of people, harmful to the business of other legal persons or to the business of the whole". We didn't make any remarks here either. Paragraph 3 of this article reads: "The prohibition of a legal person to exercise a certain act can be expressed for six months to three years, counting on the lawfulness of the verdict". Here we have intervened and asked that instead of three years, a ban on a legal person to perform a certain act can be given for a period of'six months to one year', counting on the jurisprudence of the verdict. We think that this amendment is really more appropriate and that it is not logical, it is not normal for a legal person in a violation procedure as a secondary measure to impose a penalty on a three-year ban, because if someone committed such a violation that it takes three years for him to be banned from acting, then it can definitely not be just a violation, but it is a criminal act of much broader proportions, and then it is a whole other procedure. If we are talking about the violation again, we have a problem that Krasic spoke about earlier, he referred to Article 47 as saying protection measures where it stands for safeguard measures to be pronounced by the court, and we have suggested that the authority of the administration should do so. That's the problem with this Parliament's legislation, this calls out, and every time we talk about a bill, when you leave to the authorities of the administration the possibility of making misdemeanor measures, or safeguard measures, we've always claimed that it's not good, that it has to be strictly the subject of a violation, or the law of violations, and then we wouldn't have a dilemma, we'd know what the courts for violations are doing, and what the authorities of the administration are doing. We would not have had the situation if Mladjan Dinkic went on vacation in Zlatibor and closed there, in some administrative procedure, 30 restaurants because they had no fiscal account, and then there was just a misdemeanor procedure; he had already won the place of closure of the store, and then the infringement proceedings lasted several months, and then only after the law of the criminal proceedings is the ban on not doing the work for another three years. I don't know if the writer of this law was aware of what this really meant. If you forbade one legal person for three years to do some work, then say nicely that he can never do it again because you're practically shutting down his shop, the company. It's practically the winding-up of that legal person. The promoter should have kept an eye on not only this legal person who expresses this safeguard measure, but the legal person certainly has several or more natural persons who are employed in that legal person, whose families live on that legal person and now imagine what the consequences are. Here's the most banal example of closing, say, a bar or a restaurant where ten people were employed. Em's the problem with that owner who's been incarcerated for three years, and what's gonna happen to those 10 people who work here. Will that owner pay them for that time while his legal face is closed? Of course not. He's going to make them look like a technological surplus, dump them, leave them without bread, leave them out of work, and nothing positive has been achieved by saying such a measure. It is fine if there is a breach in Articles 1 and 2. - it's okay to give the proper punishment. It's okay to be a high sentence in certain cases. But a three-year ban on acting is simply unacceptable!- I'm sorry. So, if someone was producing, it is found that they produce drugs, various drugs harmful to human health, by a complete nation, then they should be banned from doing so permanently. Does this mean that someone who's making synthetic drugs, that they're going to get a criminal sentence, for three years they're not going to deal legally, of course, they're going to deal illegally, and it's not a problem for him, but the problem is for those 20 people who didn't even know they were making synthetic drugs, the problem is for their families because the person who fed them is out of business. And it's been three years, he's going to go back into legal flows, or he's never actually stopped doing that job. Such persons and such actions are in the position of Article 2. It's a bill of law. So it can't be the subject of a crime, but it can be the subject of a crime, criminal law, and a permanent ban on such action. Anything else not to this extent harmful to the health and life of people, some other offense, I will again point out what it means to have no fiscal account, of course, is an offence, but is it wise for Dinkic to be on vacation when a guest in a restaurant doesn't find an account, to close someone's restaurant; to send all the people who are employed home, to conduct a misdemeanour procedure and yet to express himself, if he wasn't polite or if he was in communication with the minister rudely, and then find the elements that he can close that restaurant for two or three years. So, multiple is a shame. I'm sorry, there's no minister, it's unacceptable that a ban on a legal person to perform certain activities can take three years. So, a maximum of a year, as a safeguard measure. That's enough time to make sense of the one who committed the crime. It's enough to go back to normal streams. If it is thought that due to the activity it deals with, if it is said to determine an offence, it is not specifically intended to give a measure, the measure can be said if further performance would be dangerous for the lives or health of people, if so, then it should be permanently prohibited and engaged in this activity. We believe that this effective winding-up of a legal person (through this Article 50, how did you put it here and mumbled it in paragraph 3) multiple would be harmful to both the legal person and the legal person's owner, and in particular I stress to all the employees in that legal person who "did not eat or smell onion", have no idea that their boss is not working in accordance with the law. The simplest example is a restaurant: how does a cook, who cooks lunches there, or a waiter who serves, whether his boss has hidden the tax, whether he worked alongside this job, some other lawless jobs. Of course he doesn't. What is the consequence of the application of this member? It's the one who doesn't know he's been working in a legal person who's severely violated regulations, that he's out of a job, that his family has no means to live. What about the guy who does that kind of work? Don't worry, he'll manage despite a ban like this. For what is provided for in paragraph 2, there are no violations, for this goes to prison for many years, if someone puts the lives or health of people, or the nation in Serbia, at risk. The government, as a promoter, messed up the pots, wanted to be strict, and in this way they did nothing. I have no doubt it was the government's intention to combat such actions, but in this way it is not possible. I urge you once again to vote in favour of the amendment of Bozidar Koprivica, because the ban on performance for three years is something that we Serbian radicals think is unacceptable. We are convinced that it is enough for this ban to be maximum for up to a year and thus to achieve the purpose of punishment, and with much less consequences and much less people would be covered, I repeat again, very often people who did not commit this offence at all, and the complex circumstances have found themselves. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: To be collateral damage. Well done, Nemanja, means it's collateral damage, just like that. So, it's them who are the most severely punished, not who really committed this offense. Since I've moved a little bit away from what's in Section 3. - I will once again read: "The ban on legal persons to exercise certain actions can be expressed between six months and three years, counting on the lawfulness of the verdict." This is very important, because he already gets a ban on the scene from some inspector or someone who controlled some particular shop, so it takes him at least a year of justice, and it takes him three more years not to perform this activity. How do you think that someone's gonna go back to normal streams?- I'm sorry. No way!- I'm sorry. You're making it out of whoever may have even committed a crime, they're supposed to be responsible for the offense, an even bigger offender, because they have to think about how they're going to live for the next four years, and then they're going to go from a felony to a felony, from someone harmless to an even worse and bigger offense. We don't think that's the point of this law. The purpose of this law is to punish both natural and legal persons for certain offences, only those prescribed by law. We don't think that punishment should be such that it stimulates someone to continue to commit a crime. You know, if someone has 10 or 15 employees and you forbid them to work for three years, those 10 people will watch where they're going to work on black because they have to live. They'll wait for this company to function again, which is closed for three years. They're gonna get somewhere and there's damage and the state and these people again, and there's no point in applying this law. So, if we really want to be consistent, that this law makes sense, then think about it, it's enough to, as a secondary measure, impose a maximum of one year of ban on dealing with certain activities. Everything else is the actual winding-up of a legal person. I don't believe that was the government's intention. I don't think you, who will vote for the law, would want that. That's why I recommend you consider and vote for the amendments of your colleagues, Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21185	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Milan Stevovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic, on behalf of the SRS, has submitted an amendment to Article 54. Proposal for a law on violations. I have to remind you it's a very important member. I ask all MPs to pay attention to the provisions concerning the prohibition of access to damaged, objects or the place of enforcement. In fact, a member of 54 is in direct contact with a member of 46 who prescribes types of safeguard measures. If you have listened carefully to the explanation that Mrs. Vervain Radeta just gave about the amendment to Article 46. - it is proposed to delete in Article 46 paragraph 1 point 7) the prohibition of access to damaged objects, the place of enforcement of the offence. I would like to remind you of the provisions of article 54, which says: "No access to damaged, objects or crime scene is pronounced to prevent the perpetrator from repeating the offence or to continue to endanger the damaged." It then states that the measure referred to in this Article shall be made subject to the written proposal of the applicant for the initiation of the infringement procedure or of the oral request damaged, pointed out in the hearing in the infringement procedure, etc. To state the final position of this member: "The court’s decision prohibiting access is notified to the damaged, the internal affairs authority responsible for carrying out the measure and the Centre for Social Labour, if the measure refers to the ban on the perpetrator of access to the children or to the spouse". I have to say a few very important things, which is that we, by this ministry, had one body of law that regulated criminal matter. Indeed, on the one hand, we have criminal responsibility and criminal acts, and on the other hand we have a violation and a criminal responsibility. If these two things are placed on the table, this criminal matter will definitely be strained and that's how it should be understood. Therefore, an offence should be understood in a milder form of violation of the provisions prescribed by law, where there are milder sanctions, where the stalemates are milder and all measures. Now that we have in mind what a violation means, which is something that is usually milder than a crime, it is also necessary to observe in that light the regulation of certain measures. This measure of banning access to damaged objects or the crime scene can be born to itself as an enormous contradiction and abuse of this measure. In essence, this measure is nothing more than limiting the right to move and access certain persons or objects. So if we take a segment of constitutionality from one side and take that social danger that we have to count here that it is very small in relation to the violations, when it appears as an excess of this measure, because this measure can create certain problems in implementing the measure so that we violate the Constitution, and we protect someone who has committed a breach with the slightest degree of responsibility. So, we're completely different from that of the promoter. The SRS suggests erasing this, because the application of what's here can give birth to bigger problems than the protection we need to achieve. On the other hand, the promoter went with one logic that, if this is incorporated into the Criminal Law, it must also be incorporated into the law of violations – it does not have to. That's precisely because the limit between criminal responsibility, crime and crime is quite clear. If we have provided criminal protection in the same and similar situations, which is a violation of family obligations because you have seen that there is a mass of things where you can say the mass of things in the field of family relations, then it does not need to be repainted to criminal responsibility. So this isn't as congruent as you normally think. If these are the tendencies of European law and if this is proposed to us in the concept of the European Union, we can accept that, but the difference between this and the criminal acts must be perfectly precise, clear and loudly defined and said – and that is not done here. Because of this danger of turning this into a negation of what we wanted, we suggest that this provision be deleted. This also applies to Article 55. (which follows this article,) where it is said – if not respected, it will be punished etc. It's very difficult to implement these measures. It has been given to internal affairs authorities to implement this measure, but it is a question of how the internal affairs authority will follow, whom it will trust, if someone approaches in the night, whether they will trust one or the other or there will be abuse. So it had to be taken care of these things, which I mentioned here. I believe that this article should be deleted because we can compromise the fundamental constitutional rights prescribed by this highest legal act. If we look at the other side of the measure, then this measure really falls into the eyes as one measure that bounces away from all the other measures. She is new, and she may be justified in some cases, but in most cases there may be a negation of this criminal institute itself. That is why we propose that this member be deleted and Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21187	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21188	I didn't agree with the minister to accept this amendment, because it was offered to the Justice and Administration Committee, and he didn't accept it, and we in the SRS think it really should and we still think this amendment should be accepted. This is one of those, in our opinion, unconstitutional members. Article 68 refers to minors. We think that a real attitude towards minors, even when they commit an offence, should be with special attention and with the ultimate goal of making that minor, who is potentially prone to violations, a man who will not have a conflict with the law. We think that the relationship with minors, of course, from family, from school, from the whole state, is particularly important for the country in general, especially when we know what is happening in the circle of minors in Serbia. It is not good for me to have such legal provisions (such as this article 68) In a way We demean those underage people, and that We may treat them against the law, that We may insult their dignity. So, no matter what a minor has done, we have to make sure that it's a man who has his dignity, who at least we can't, as a state, by these and similar laws to insult, to humiliate him, on the contrary, have to do everything to make that minor a decent man. Now I'm going to tell you what it predicts as a special obligation, Article 68. He says, "If the court considers that the relevant requirements and prohibitions are necessary to affect the minor and his behaviour, it may impose one or more special obligations on the minor: 1) to apologize to the damaged person; 2) to repair or compensate for the damage he has caused," although I don't know how you think he is going to do it. If a minor stole cigarettes at the store, then he needs to steal from his parents to make up for it at the store, completely wrong approach. Secondly, this apology, what caused this offence, how did this injured person treat a minor? You know, underage faces are still specific to a lot of things. That way we have to take care of them, even when it comes to a minor. ''3) that it does not visit certain places and avoids the company of certain persons who negatively influence it.' Do we have the right to tell a minor who he can hang out with, who he can't hang out with, where he can't come and where he can't? We can't tell that minor in advance, you can't go out there with those friends of yours because they're like this or they're like that, we can't legally prescribe it. Here is a significant role above all family, which you have completely ignored in that famous family law of yours, where you have completely destroyed the traditional Serbian family. Next, there should be a positive impact of the school. Of course, you're also education, high school and higher education, too, your so-called. democratic approaches, completely destroyed, all the good traditional that existed in the present system of education. Then there's the social work centers. There's a lot of these things that need to affect especially a minor, and not be told by law, if he committed a crime, because it doesn't have to be a big one, because somewhere he broke public order, he had a fight at some discotheque, and we're telling him now that he can't go there anymore, and he can't hang out with his friends who he went to the discotheque with because they've been fighting with another group of minors from the other side of town. Of course, I don't think they should fight for any reason, not even these. We simply can't resort to the dignity of a young man. We don't have the right to do that. ''4) to undergo withdrawal and treatment of alcohol addiction, drugs or other intoxicating agents and addictions'. How do you regulate that with adult faces? He's going to be treated, with his consent, and we're going to pick up the minor's ears on the street and ask no one to take him to some kind of facility. We have no right!- I'm sorry. A minor is a man, he's only less than a minor, and he's more responsible, because he's already a mature man. He's more responsible if he does things like this, and we treat a minor more strictly than a minor. It's not right. It's not human, at least. ''5) to be directed to a competent driver training facility for the purpose of learning or checking the knowledge of traffic regulations.' I don't know who's making this clear. What now, if a minor crossed the street in front of this building past Cedine Zebra, he doesn't have to do it, so there's no misunderstanding, but if he's already done it, we're making him go to school for the driver, because there he's going to learn to cross the street on the zebra alone. Unbelievable. Who else is gonna pay for that? You'll probably make him steal somewhere so he can pay for that school. "6) to engage, without compensation, in the work of humanitarian organisations or in matters of ecological, social or local importance." I'm sorry, it's really amazing that you're making someone volunteer without compensation into some kind of action. This isn't even in a cartoon. Don't play games! We're serious people. "7) to be involved in the work of sports and other departments at school, with the pedagogical supervision of teachers." We can't even make him do this. If he has committed an offence, he is responsible for a violation of what is meant for minors, and these special obligations are a violation of the human rights of that underage man, meaning unconstitutional; violation of the dignity of that underage man; humiliation of that underage man. We really do not have the right to treat our young people this way. We have to, as a state, create conditions to minimise any kind of juvenile delinquency, but, of course, there are problems much broader and much deeper. These are problems from the social status of the family, from school relations, from social work centres, in the environment, etc. It's a topic for some other laws and for some studies that this country must finally start dealing with. The easiest thing to do there is to find out that someone committed a crime and then you make them through article 68 do whatever he wouldn't normally do. Then you just wake up more and more the rebel in that young man and you make him think that tomorrow, when he gets rid of these obligations, he commits another offense. I don't believe it was your idea, Minister Stojkovic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I am asking you to take our objections seriously. As you can see, we are looking very studioly at it and it is not our intention just to say – here, we are submitting the amendment, so if you want to accept, if you don't, you don't have to, and then let's say that the government doesn't accept amendments to the SRS. We are serious politicians, and we seriously want to influence laws that will be irrefutable, because you will adopt them, if you succeed in providing a very symptomatic congregation majority already, but that is the problem of this congregation majority, it is not our problem. So we want all categories of the population to be protected by law, and that is especially true of minors. You further say in Section 2: "Obligations of point one. 1) to 7) this member cannot last longer than six months and must not interfere with underage schooling or employment." How do you plan on harmonising this? Who's going to do this, who's going to comply with the underage obligations at school, possibly at work, with what would you load on his back with this law? What will his relationship and family status be with these obligations that you impose on him here? You further say, "In the context of the obligation under Article 1(2), the court will determine the height, shape and method of repairing damage, where the personal work of minors may take up to 20 hours in a period of one month and must be deployed so as not to disturb the regular schooling or employment of minors". This is very interesting to you, that point 2) I have already read, to repair or compensate for the damage it has caused. So, what do you want, if a minor commits a misdemeanor and steals a chocolate in a store, then you're going to bring it back to work in that store for a few days at a time, to make up for the damage to that stolen chocolate? What will be the owner's relationship with that minor? How's that minor gonna feel who's gonna come to that store for five days to say "good morning," and they're all gonna say "this is the one who stole the chocolate"? I think this member is both a subject for psychologists and psychiatrists, not just for MPs, or for promoters. We think you seriously need to take all these remarks made through this amendment, and our amendment suggests that this entire article should be deleted. We'll wipe you all out, don't worry, Human, you're still here! Before that, Article 68 of this law must be deleted and the amendment of Božidar Koprivica must be accepted, if your sincere intention is to assist minors in their socialization and your intention to create a serious and responsible man from some minor delinquent.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21189	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 76. This amendment requires that articles 5 and 6 of this article be deleted. In particular, Article 76 lays down limitation periods for the initiation and conduct of the infringement procedure. At the first four positions, we do not have any objections, but then in paragraph 5, it is said that, exceptionally from the provisions set out in Article 1, which determines the general period of limitation of running, for infringements in the field of customs, foreign trade, foreign exchange, public income and finance, the transport of goods and services and air traffic services, can be prescribed by a special law by a longer period of ageing. Then attitude six, which says, "The deadline laid down in Section 5 of this article cannot be longer than five years." The position of the SRS is that it is not possible to prescribe a longer period of limitation of the initiation and conduct of the infringement procedure, but also for these, as you say, special procedures, or procedures in certain specific areas must apply these general deadlines. It is important to know that the offence itself is milder than the criminal act, that he must, according to all his qualities, remain so. It is simple that if a criminal offence sanctions some of the illegal acts that they have, which protects some of the public goods that have less meaning than those that are protected through the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure, then it is necessary that deadlines and conditions for the conduct of this misdemeanour are shorter because the infringement procedure must be shorter than the criminal one. I think it's inappropriate, that's what you've pointed out so far, and for the criminal procedure to last for five years; criminal proceedings have to end much faster, the judiciary has to be more effective, and in this way you're just encouraging those who are going to follow this law to do it slowly tomorrow, to say, we have five years, there's no need to be hasty, easy, so when it's over, it's going to be. I don't know, it should be known to Minister Stojkovic, it probably is, especially if it takes into account violations in foreign exchange operations, customs etc. So, when you are deprived of a certain amount of foreign exchange when entering or leaving the country, because the confiscation at the border is a temporary confiscation, you need to be taken from you later in the infringement procedure and officially taken away from the funds, that is, when it is determined that you have committed a certain offence that only then certain funds are taken from you. Practically, countless times have happened in the previous period, and this does not only apply to the period before 2000, but also to the post-2000 period, that customs authorities confiscate certain funds temporarily, that they issue confirmation to the owner of the funds and that they simply never initiate a misdemeanour procedure, or that the infringement procedure is never completed. In that case, regardless of whether there really were signs of a misdemeanor or not, the owner of those funds that were seized after the expiry of the limitation period, nicely folded the tabak and sued the state in front of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade and after some time, for a year or two, he gets the right to claim his money back with compensation, or interest from the day of confiscation. If you extend this period to five years, it will take five years for the state, plus how long it takes to carry out the compensation procedure, that is about six or seven years, to pay a legally tightened interest, or if it is for foreign exchange funds, then a tightened interest is paid by the European Central Bank for any currency and these are incredible damages to the state. I don't see at all what that is to do in these areas and in any other area, whether it's public income, finance, goods traffic, air traffic, an ageing period of five years. It is much better to force those who will work tomorrow in these bodies, or courts for violations, municipal courts to be up-to-date, to do their job properly, you have provided great resources for both the material means and the means to work and to pay those people, and then to make some minimum updates required. Furthermore, there is something else I would like to mention, which is in attitude 7, where it determines the absolute obsolescence of prosecution and says, "The prosecution goes out of date in any case when two times as long as the law requires for antiquity of prosecution." If you listened carefully, nothing was specified. So here it had to be behind obsolescence to say, "starting a chase," and then it would make sense. So, criminal prosecution becomes obsolete in any case when it takes twice as long as it is required by law to become obsolete in the pursuit. It's a year's time and times two makes sense, and like this, you can't obsolescence pursue over the limitations of prosecution to determine, it's logically nonsensical to you. It is a similar situation in Article 77, paragraph 6, where it says: "The execution of penalties, i.e. the safeguard measures, is outdated in any case when two times the amount of time required by law for the execution of the sentence" is passed. It's supposed to stand here -- as much as it's legally required for an obsolescence of execution and then it makes sense. So it's something that's possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and anyone can still submit an amendment or that through the legal technical order of text this is done, because you'll see that, logically, when this is interpreted, it doesn't mean anything. That's two words you should install, and I think that's how it proves that we of these amendments when we wrote, wrote extremely seriously, prepared. This has nothing to do with this regime or the political parties. When you pass some of these laws like Criminal Law, the Law of Infractions, these are laws that have to be applied over a long period of time, and we really don't want to spend months or two days, when we come to power, we're wasting time to correct these mistakes again, because it's much better now that you accept some of these adjustments through amendments and simply enter into the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21191	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I'm also informing you how we're going to work today. Yesterday we had a nice plan, but we are much more efficient, and since we have eight amendments to discuss, four have become an integral part of the law, let's say, Mr. Stevovic was accepted. So we're going to work until the search ends in the details of the 9th point of the agenda, and if we finish before the hours are up, it's going to be over, so we're going to continue on Monday, these are public roads, and if not, we're going to continue until the end in detail. Of course, a man plans one thing, but thanks to efficiency, it's possible to work like this today. Thank you very much. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 85th amendment. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. For those of interest who are the other amendments that have been accepted, other than this Stevovic, these are under the circumstances of Mr Mamula's amendment. I know you were surprised.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21192	Article 85. The bill has the title – Right to Defence. They regulate not only the right to defend, but they regulate other issues of misdemeanour. These are solid solutions in the first three positions. In Section 4, it is necessary to say "once" to replace the word "pre". What's this about? Paragraph 4 reads: "The defendant has the right to defend himself or with the professional help of the defender he chooses himself. The court is obliged to teach the defendant the right to defend himself during the first examination. Mr. Petar Jojic suggests that intervention be carried out in this second sentence, so that it should be said to replace the word "before". So, before the interrogation, the defendant's hearings, he is aware of his right to use the professional help of a legal representative, a lawyer who would care for his rights in a misdemeanor procedure. If it stands – at the time of the first examination, then, if it points to the need for professional defence, then it is likely to be in the function of delaying the proceedings, because the hearing is delayed, it is scheduled to be held next and, within some time, should be provided by the defender. We think that's why it's better to sign up as Mr. Jojic suggested. This topic is very important because, if the infringement procedure by its definition is some shortened, quite similar to the criminal procedure... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Krassic, please, please, regulate it, excuse me.) )......................................................................................................... Then it's good to say that we're going beyond these standards that are prescribed. It would be good for MPs to pay attention to what I'm going to do as an example to compare this provision. The Universal Declaration and the Civil and Political Rights Pact and all European conventions that regulate human freedoms prescribe the inalienable right of man to defend himself. They prescribe the right to justice of the trial, prescribe and guarantee the right to use professional assistance, prescribe the right to have, leave enough time to prepare the defense. He is guaranteed the right to be informed at the outset of all charges brought against him. This can also be applied in a misdemeanour procedure, because it is essentially criminal proceedings and in that procedure, as soon as sanctions are imposed, human freedoms and the rights of citizens are encroached. You see, it's a good thing we're making a point about one law on violations, that it's a sacred right that belongs to a man, why not tell the birth, and just remember that, these days or three years now, this right has not been recognised in The Hague tribunal, that tribunal that has a certain number of lovers both in this hall and in that building across the street, lovers who believe that The Hague tribunal is the ultimate range of justice and truth. There Vojislav Seselj is denied the right to defend himself, does not recognise the right to an expeditional trial, is not allowed to communicate with an expert team helping him prepare for defence. It's being transferred from one cell to another, where conditions are even more difficult, to encourage these health problems, we have obviously a violation of those fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights guaranteed by all international documents, and everyone swears to that document!- I'm sorry. They wait for the first chance to run it all over, throw it aside, to carry out their own interest and some of their own justice. That's why it's always interesting for us when some procedural regulations appear, where in some provisions this guarantee is potential, a guarantee of human dignity, which is guaranteed to every man, starting with that presumption that he is innocent until a judicial procedure is found to be a valid blame. This intervention, proposed by Mr Jojic, practically means that, in parallel with the application for an infringement procedure or any other act initiated by the criminal proceedings, the suspect, or accused, has the first basic knowledge that he can defend himself, with the help of a person who is expert in providing legal assistance. If he hears this right at the first hearing, when he is due to make his first statement, to plead guilty, then that means that a misdemeanor proceedings are concluded, if he declares that he wants to use this right to have his own defender. The case wanted this amendment not to be accepted by the Committee on Justice, and the representative of the Government, who was then, justified by the fact that there is such a thing in the Code of Criminal Procedure, since there is some analogy between a criminal and a criminal procedure that there is no problem if only one law prescribes it in another. We are, with this amendment right now, pointing out that it is necessary to amend both laws of this provision. In some legal systems, it is known that the accused act is also given a special addendum in the form of an annex to which the rights are taxed, the minimum rights guaranteed in the procedure: the right to use its own language, the right to defence, the right to begin trial and other rights within a reasonable period of time, such as the right to examine witnesses, to propose defence witnesses, etc. If we want this procedure to be effective, then before the search is opened and it starts specifically with a debate on criminal liability, before the defendant comes into the situation to plead, why not say, the charges of a crime, he is fully informed that he can use the defender. It would be good for Mr Jojic's intervention to first take place in the Law on Infringement Procedure, and given that the draft criminal code is now being prepared, that this solution, proposed by Jojic, is being revised in the current regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21193	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 139 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. A representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 168. A representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 175 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. I have to answer to Mr Spaha. The president has not forgotten and congratulated him in due time yesterday, and today you have a text in the paper, please consult next time. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 175 of the Code of Infractions. I believe that the minister of justice, Mr Zoran Stojkovic, was in a great dilemma when considering these amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, to the law on violations, because, from the reasons of these amendments, you too saw MPs, and in particular Minister Stojkovic, that these are meaningful amendments, which would indeed make this law very applicable, might have brought him closer to the quality of those countries that are already in the EU, those waiting in the EU corridor, with the help of the SRS MPs. On behalf of the MP's group, the minister accepted, I expected this amendment to be accepted, as well as all amendments to the SRS MPs, but since that did not happen, I will now comment on Article 175 of the law in such a text, or proposal, and I will try to say why this amendment should be accepted. In fact, Article 175 speaks of the defendant's hearing and the manner in which the defendant is being heard. This article is very large and if it were read by someone who is involved in medicine, engineering, electrical engineering, or other professions, he could say at the first moment that such a member might be required in law. However, given that this law will be applied by graduate lawyers, with a passed judicial exam and those who will be judges for violations, it did not have to stand like this. In the first position of Article 175, it is said: 'We are hearing the defendants by the rule of the word 'orally'. In view of what is next and how in a detailed way further it is regulated, then it was necessary to work out what if it is not oral, if it is written, if otherwise the hearing is carried out. It should've been worked out in more detail. Then, when taking a statement from the defendant, he will be asked a number of questions: when he was born, which is why he was born, family opportunities, and a number of other characteristic personal properties for the defendant and ultimately one of the issues, and all the time before taking a statement concerning a specific offence, whether he served an army, or whether he has an act of a reserve officer, whether he is being conducted in military records and with which military authority. I think that used to make sense. But at the time of this poser's arrival, now the president of the Republic of Serbia, as minister of the military, at the time of Mr Davinic and this current minister, who had an extremely high average of 6.25 during his studies, I think it is pointless to see what is going on - the destruction of the army. And now to put it in the statement of the defendant at the opening of the hearing, or the hearing of the defendant, is almost pointless. The provisions on the hearing of the accused shall apply accordingly in the hearing of the representative of the accused legal person, shall mean all that is applicable to the natural person. I suggested that this member be changed and said: "The accused in the criminal proceedings shall be heard under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act". The SRS parliamentary group has accepted the idea that the law enforcement authorities are transformed into courts for violations. It is something that we support, but in this law there are a series of provisions that are excessive, which are little even vague; as Commissioner Verica Radeta said that certain perpetrators of the offence may be encouraged, instead of being vice versa, to act preventively, some of the provisions that are now in this law will encourage further violations. I guess the legislator didn't mean to. There is no minister, I would like to ask him one question: which is why a certain number of violations have been left out of the jurisdiction of the courts for violations, left at customs and tax administration. Is it because someone who is now a finance minister thinks that forever these two state bodies will be run by people who are members of his party, so that in this way they will tear up Serbian citizens and be able to raise funds very quickly in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and then spend in an irrational way, or something else, I don't know. I wish Mr. Minister was here to explain to us, if there was already one reform of the court, that is, transforming the law enforcement authority into a court of offense, which is why all the violations were not transferred to the jurisdiction of the courts for violations, but were left with other state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21195	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 211 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 220, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 234th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – I am giving a break until 14.05 p.m. [[After break – 14,25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We continue with the afternoon work of today's search in detail. As we have announced, today we will be working until the end of the search in the details of the 9th item of the agenda – the draft law on public roads, and due to the importance of the order of the law to be passed in November, 10th and most likely 11th point of the agenda we will search in details on Monday, 7 November at 10.00 hours. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Blagoje Krajinović, Vojislav Milajić, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Branislav Rankic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Momir Marković, Bora Kutić, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Goran Jakšić, Bojan Kekić, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic, the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Goran Jaksic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 96. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 146(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected, as untimely, amendments to Articles 44 and 96. The bill, tabled by MP Zoran Tanasijević. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted upon under Article 146(3). Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Gjorgevic. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Public Paths, in Article 2 paragraph 1 point 50, and it is said that "50) the Public Road Manager is a Public Enterprise which is registered to carry out public road management activities (hereinafter referred to as "the Manager")". In the explanation I gave, the management of the public roads of the Republic of Serbia is an activity of general interest, given the above, the activity of public road management should not be done by entrepreneurs and companies, but only by a public company, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I read the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. In the debate, when we talked about this draft law on the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, in principle, I was talking about this, because this amendment refers to the very essence of a single legislative project that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly, considering that this is one of the laws which, above all, is not good, which has no clear concept, a clear national strategy when it comes to the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. So, the law cannot see what a programme of building and maintaining public roads is, on a proposal from the competent ministry, to bring, say, the government of the Republic of Serbia for a period of four years, in line with a national strategy that this legislative project does not have. The essence of amendments to the SRS parliamentary club is precisely in a completely different concept and the programme the SRS had, unlike the ruling coalition, which apparently lacks a clear concept on this issue and has no clear programme. We consider that in Article 2. (Chapter I of the Basic Provisions of the Bill), the Public Road Manager should be a public enterprise, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that these cannot be companies, or other legal persons or entrepreneurs, as you have proposed to the National Assembly this bill. We believe that, since Serbia is a transit state, which is in such a geographical position, the public roads of the Republic of Serbia have special significance and the constitution has been regulated that public roads are good, meaning, which has been regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative act. The Government's response to this amendment, I will read it, as the Government is called and said: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 18 point 10 of the Law on Local Self-Government (“ Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”, number 9/2002, 33/2004, 135/2004) stipulates that the municipality is responsible, through its bodies, to regulate and ensure that the works relating to construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction, maintenance, protection, use, development and management of local untegrated roads, as well as streets in the settlement are carried out. It follows that the establishment of a public enterprise, which would carry out the activity of managing all public roads (state or municipal roads and streets), is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government." What does the Law on Local Self-Government say? In Article 18. The Law on Local Self-Government, which refers to the original part of the circle, which regulates this particular matter, Paragraph 1 states: "The municipality is responsible for, through its bodies, in accordance with the Constitution and the law", in point 10," 'decoupling and ensuring that the works relating to the construction, rehabilitation', are carried out exactly as you have stated here. But none of you can say that the municipality cannot form a public enterprise that would be involved in the maintenance of roads, in the management of roads. Of course, it should deal with a public company at the level of the municipality, as you provided for in the bill, in this case that the public road manager is a public enterprise, but it cannot possibly be private entrepreneurs or a company, as you have proposed to the National Assembly this bill. Regardless of the SRS amendment, we have tried to fix this very bad concept and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is obvious that you did not have a clear programme when it comes to this matter. We know that it is necessary to regulate this matter by legal regulation, which will be appropriate, given that Serbia is a transit country, that we should bring our legislation in line with EU countries' legislation, countries in the environment, given that Serbia is in such a position as a transit country that connects Western countries with the East. Therefore, the essence of our proposal is that this amendment is, most importantly, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that it has a clear concept. You with this bill, which you want to pass quickly, in the Reasons for passing this law, I will read: "The financing of maintenance, reconstruction, rehabilitation and the construction of a road network in the Republic of Serbia is made from the funds provided by international financial institutions... and on the basis of the contracts that have been concluded and whose realisation is under way." It is then said: "Being in mind that the Republic Road Directorate is educated by the Law on Roads as a special organisation, changing the status of the Directorate, i.e. creating a legal basis for the establishment of a public enterprise in this area, it is possible only by amending the applicable Law on Roads". In that part alone, we agree with you in this bill of law. That is why we have tried to amend the very bad proposal for a legal project, which the government has submitted to the National Assembly. I expect the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment, since you did not withdraw this legislative proposal from the agenda when the debate was in principle, and we asked you to do so, because you also proposed this law seven months ago, so now it has come to the agenda of the Assembly, and you haven't changed anything since then. You had enough time to put together a good legal project and make sure that Serbia must have a national strategy in this area and that this legislation must be resolved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, just as the SRS advocates.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21198	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Vojislav Milajic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 2a. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment proposed that Article 2a be added, which reads: "public roads and untegrated roads are generally good in the state property of the Republic of Serbia and cannot obtain ownership rights, and other real rights can be exercised under special laws." There's been a slight in the government's opinion. The government misrepresented this amendment, left out the word "no" so it turned out that, and the original, real text of the amendment to Article 2a says that the right of ownership cannot be obtained. In an explanation of the Government for which this amendment is rejected, the Government is calling for Article 60(1). The Serbian Constitution states that natural resources and good in general use are required as good of general interest and city building land in state or social property. As public roads are good in general use and are indisputable from the general interest, the constitutional principle is respected when the draft law is drawn up. And we, when we invest this amendment, came from that very position, so our attitudes are absolutely consistent. And we are calling for Article 60 of attitude 1 but by mistake, when giving an opinion, you left out the word "no" so I don't think there's any reason not to accept this amendment, especially since our views are consistent. With this explanation, you've only confirmed what we've been asking for with this amendment. Also, in the Constitution, Article 60(2) provides that "one of the goods in general may be in private property under the conditions laid down by law". This is in this Article 2a and states that 'other real rights can be exercised under special laws'. So there are rights regarding lease rights, rights of use and concession rights. We're not taxing instructions, we're just stating "and other real rights." In Article 60(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said: "For the sake of general interest and on city building land, under the conditions laid down by the laws, the right to use can be acquired." It means it's one of the real rights. We are not taxing but generally saying that other real rights can be established by law. We've only ruled out property rights. We ruled out property rights as an opportunity to gain ownership of goods in general use. Therefore, the sole owner of goods in general use can be a state, since social property dies, although it exists formally in the Constitution, but it will eventually disappear. So, the only thing left is state property and the state can only be the owner of goods in general use. Because of this failure in writing the Government's opinion, I think there was an unnecessary confusion, because it turned out that our views were entirely consistent; and we, when writing this amendment, were called upon and we were thinking of Article 60. The Constitution of Serbia, and you, when you gave your opinion when you refused, refused this amendment by calling for the same member, by missing the word "no", so that the amendment got second meaning and second meaning. Given that our views are entirely consistent, I don't think there's any reason not to accept this amendment, and I think it's a pity the minister isn't present.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21200	Do I understand your gestures well? In the event that it is a technical sauce, that it has been rejected, and it will be accepted, it is possible, exclusively, until the hearing is concluded in particular. In that case, it would be necessary to request oral consent and to inform the speaker of the details of the debate until the end of the debate, after which it will not be possible, but will have to draw attention to the MPs during the vote, which means that they will draw attention to such a thing in advance. Please think about the possibility, but I think it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21201	This is also closely linked to the next SRS amendment to Article 3 that will be explained by Mr Djordjevic, because we asked that Article 3 of Section 2 be deleted, because we consider this to be a more precise formulation of property and real legal relations concerning goods. We don't think there's any reason not to accept this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21202	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which says: "Article 3. Paragraph 1 changes and reads: Public roads and untegrated roads make up the network of the roads of the Republic of Serbia. Item two, delete everything. I consider these amendments to Article 3. The proposal for a law on public roads defines more precisely the concept of public roads, the legal status of public roads and who they refer to. Therefore, Article 3 is also closely linked to Article 2. It's a bill of law. Given that Milajic explained the amendment to Article 2 with a new Article 2a, the SRS parliamentary group considers Article 3 to be very inaccurate and not well-conceived. So we're looking for a more precise solution. That is why we have submitted this amendment directly linked to Article 2a. Article 3 states: "public roads and untegrated roads make up a network of roads". Paragraph 2 states: "The roads of Article 1, as good in general use, are state-owned and can be obtained by the rights of use, the rights of service and other rights laid down by law." So, the SRS believes that our amendment should be accepted by the government, precisely for those reasons, by defining in a more precise way the concept of public roads they refer to, because that is the essence of the SRS amendment. The government responded where it is said: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on Public Roads regulates matter of public roads in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Part of the amendment requesting the erasure of Article 2. The draft law does not accept the same question as in Article 3(2), because an amendment under No 2 has not been adopted. A bill of law.' You are here in Article 2a, the amendment submitted by the SRS, which Mr Milajic spoke of, presented the amendment to the SRS, and this was not our amendment. It says here, (in the government's opinion) that public roads and untegrated roads are good in the state property of the Republic of Serbia and can be acquired on them 'right of ownership'. Not to read any further. We clearly wrote that "can't" acquire the right of ownership. It's defined here as if we've submitted some other amendment. So, the essence of this amendment to the bill, by the SRS, was just to connect with Articles 2 and 3. The bill, which is not clear and precisely defined, this amendment to the SRS much more precisely and clearly regulates this bill. I believe that the Government of this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, should accept, for all of the reasons stated by counterpart Milajic, speaking of the previous amendment and of what I have now spoken about the amendment to Article 3 that I have brought on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21204	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21205	The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs, is the essence of the amendments tabled by a group of SPS MPs, primarily on the categorisation of the roads that exist in Serbia. So far, we've had highways, regional and local roads. By new law, Article 5 defines the state roads of the front row, the state roads of the second row, the municipal roads and the streets. Calsification is indisputable by the importance of roads. However, my amendment primarily refers to the fact that it is who adopts an act on the categorization of state roads. The law stipulates that it should be the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so it also lays down rules on categorisation and the law on the execution of categorisation, and I believe that the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body, on a proposal from the Government, should adopt an act on the categorisation of roads, given that there have been many changes lately, and that certain routes have become from the local level and regional, and all of this is due to the maintenance of roads, since the budget of the Republic of Serbia or, as the law provides, that the JP Republic Road Directorate will be maintained, that is, to participate in the construction of only earlier Master's and regional routes, and now in the first and second country order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21206	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the first amendment to the SRS to the last, to the Law on Public Paths, above all, we want to refer you to the current Constitution and to the applicable legal regulations. We find it inadmissible to remain Article 2 in Article 8, so that the violation of our constitutional arrangement would be carried out, because it would be a motive for abuse, as it has been in this vacuum period since we have not had this law, but, as the motion to reject my amendment, which I have filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has called on some others, also for us unacceptable legal regulations, which are not disputed by the Constitutional Court, and should have been, because we have sharply criticised them, and especially in certain parts of the Law on Economic Companies and the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity by the general interest, which is being called upon by the Proposer. I must tell you, Mr. Proposer's representative, because Minister Velimir Ilic is not here, that position 1 in Article 8 is quite fine and he could otherwise not be defined. So, "The management of state roads is carried out by a public company established by the Government (hereinafter referred to as the Public Enterprise)". It is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that is how it can stand. Article 2 which is necessary to delete, reads: "The management of state roads can also be carried out by a company, i.e. another legal person or entrepreneur, under conditions and in a manner established by law governing the exercise of the general interest". You are widely interpreted in the explanation, i.e. in response to not accepting the amendment, you have called and you say that, "The Public Business Act and the exercise of the general interest act", which before you has been brought by the Dosmanli government, headed by DS, "the activity of the general interest can be carried out by other forms of enterprise, part of the company and the entrepreneur", such as "Difens Road", Chumeta, other Chumeta, all those who and how they claim to receive these input jobs, with which individuals from this government are willing to cooperate, are linked to them and therefore the state will suffer huge damage. If you already have any doubt about it, then you should consult Velimir Ilic, who should be here, and who knows where at this time when the Law on Public Paths is being discussed, if you have already considered accepting after such a convincing argument by your colleague Milajić that a new article 2a is being added after Article 2a, then it should read: "The public roads and untegrated roads are generally well in the state property of the Republic of Serbia and there is no right to claim ownership, and other real rights can be exercised under special laws". You can possibly speak, define Article 8. Only in the Law on concessions, and that is a broad question, we will still have much to discuss under what conditions and how concessions will be given to certain persons, or by already established categories, in the way that it is governed by the previous Law. This is indeed a way to prevent the full abuse and to degrade state property, what is owned by the Republic of Serbia, and we want to prevent it, because we know that both by the NIS Act, or by putting out of force, the Law and the intention to restructure NIS, EPS, now and with this Law on Public Paths, you are ready to sell everything, because it is a wide variety of tycoons and those who are enormously going to become rich by taking a monopoly over state property. Aren't you enough with one Bogoljub Karic? I know Velimir Ilic is with him in some coalition, that they have a coalition agreement, but if someone in this way robs citizens and monopolies of the century for 600 or 700m euros, opera, as all people would say, on the capital and securities stock exchange, so that the fictitious accounts, to the accounts of their family members, schedules at 10, 20, 50 or 200m euros, you want to create the possibility that anyone who intends to deal with such machinations will use this law and say, that is my legal right, that is ours and we can enter such arrangements. Not wanting to reevaluate who the new Chume is, one must have been enough for you and everything the DS has done that has brought crime and corruption to Serbia to the highest degree, to take your mind off it and to prevent it and to say by law, it can't, it's the property of the state and the government of any future must in such a way be able to dispose of state property. That's what we're warning you about. We, if you do not accept this, will give God soon, will need these key things in all these laws that are very harmful, especially according to the property of Serbia to change, because it is impossible for this law to remain and that you have a valid constitution. Any future change in the Constitution will define what state property is, or property, property of the Republic of Serbia and how it can be made available, and no other law can give you the basis without violating the Constitution, including this position 2 in Article 8 to do so, and that this is in a regular way, that there is no flagrant violation of the letters of the Constitution, therefore, what is most important in each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21208	Currently, the government of the Republic of Serbia is sitting, ministers are there, that is one piece of information. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Slowly, we go in turn, first MP Alexander Djordjevic, if the time remains Mr Vojislav Milajić, then Mr Markicevic, hopefully not the replica, but the amendment, there is no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21209	The SRS amendment, or co-worker Natasa Jovanovic, had just been aimed at protecting, above all, the interests of the Republic of Serbia. When we bring bill proposals here, then, in the voting day, we have to make sure that any legal proposal is not good, such as this legal project, which the government has submitted to the National Assembly. When it comes to the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, we must submit amendments that will protect interests, above all, the state of Serbia and then the citizens of Serbia. That's the essence of the SRS amendment. So, like it from the ruling coalition or not, this legal project that you submitted to the National Assembly is one of the worst legal solutions that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly in the past year. From the fact that you have clearly stated in your explanation that the aim is to form a public enterprise and that this is the reason for the law being passed, we are in line with the SRS programme, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to submit amendments to fix this legislative proposal, to prevent public roads in Serbia from being managed by private entrepreneurs, and that what was happening at the time of the ruling of the DS government, when the Prime Minister was late Zoran Djindjic, followed by Zoran Zivkovic, etc. The DS has brought Serbia back 100 years with its behaviour, government and with everything it has done to harm the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the ruling coalition, in this case, first of all, had to take care of the DSS if we were to pass some important system laws in this assembly to pass these laws, to be precise, to be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative act, and not only to look at the authority of these proposals submitted by the strongest party in Serbia, which is the SRS; and this will be seen after the next elections, and we will have to form a government ourselves, to correct all these irregularities and legal solutions that you will vote in the voting day. I believe that this amendment tabled by Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which is fundamentally aimed at protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia, so that roads are managed by various criminals from the ranks of some stakeholders. You've seen, you've had your chance, you've witnessed how the DS was acting, who's just been surrounded by a bunch of criminals who've paved and got jobs in various tenders. They did as they thought, so then we had Kolesar and Janjusevic and a lot of what was burdening the Republic of Serbia, and today the citizens of Serbia are having a hard time living. The fact is, if you as the Government of the Republic of Serbia have no hearing that, or you don't simply want to hear what the opposition is telling you, in this case, the SRS, we have had one clear approach that this poor legal solution, which has been submitted to the National Assembly, wants to be repaired, to be more precise and ultimately be in line with the Constitution and to protect the Republic of Serbia and to protect the citizens of Serbia from possible future events, as it was during the ruling of the DS. If you do not accept the amendments to the SRS, you will show that you are exactly the same as the DS government that did what it wanted, it had a congregation majority then, but after that they lost power and you will not see more of them in power for long, because the SRS in the next election, which will be called next year, will have an absolute majority. If you do not accept these amendments, we will have to change all these bad legal projects, to be in line with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21210	The People's MP Miroslav Markicevic, on the amendment, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21211	Mr. President, fellow MPs, the New Serbia MPs will in no case accept the amendment submitted by the SRS, especially when we hear the explanation and dictionary used here. So I firmly deny that New Serbia is in a coalition with anyone; no, only with citizens and their voters. The message from this speaker is sent to the citizens of Serbia, and I want to tell the truth about how New Serbia sees it. The problem is that in the previous six months, 63 SRS council members have moved to New Serbia and the president of the municipality of Novi Knezevic. Who is with whom in the coalition, I would have to ask the SRS - are you by any chance in a coalition with Bogoljub Karic, when you give him MPs, and I hear that the leader of your party, Toma Nikolic, announces another four or five MPs that he will move to the SRS, so please focus on the law, on amendments?- I'm sorry. A session of the government of the Republic of Serbia is under way, involving the most successful minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, declared by all polls over the past six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21212	I understand this about the amendments. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, because of the misreading, according to the Rules of Procedure The replica is when the MP or party is mentioned personally, then the authorised representative speaks. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: No, I have the right to reply.]] Here's the wrong interpretation of what you said. Ms. Jovanovic, exactly what I know, I am giving you the right to a replica, not what you have called for. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: It is a replica, you see that you do not know, Mr Markovic.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21213	It's not a neck, just to pretend you're the smartest, focus a little, so you'll see that colleague Markicevic just said – an amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, you have a synopsis ahead of you, says who submitted it, Natasa Jovanovic. However, thank you, in the end, for being so kind, cynical, of course, in your manner and for giving me the opportunity to replicate my colleagues Markicevic. I can't, you haven't even read the law. You don't have anything to do with this. Now let me ask you what I've been saying, and the gentleman who is a representative of the government, the Ministry, who, by the way, is not the most successful, and it's not property, it's not the property, it's not the farthest private, it's the grandfather of Velimir Ilic, and none of these people here are thinking about replacing him, but it's the property of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that he is currently in the post of Minister for the so-called capital investment, a problem Kostunica will face sooner or later. That's not the problem with the SRS. If you ask us again for health if we're okay, thank God, we're well and healthy here, and we'll be even better. We currently have the support of more than 40% of voters in Serbia. As things move, you get less and less. You fight to change the censorship and three percent is unattainable to jump that far. If I were you, except you're wasting your time, at least if you had the amendments and the law ahead of you, I'd deal with my yard. And you are in Chačka by Velimir Ilic removed from the post of head of the committee group because he told you that you are not doing well in your party either. Then why are you getting involved in the business of the best and biggest party? I wouldn't take you away from being head of a committee group. You know why he replaced you? Because the whole of Cachak knows that both you and New Serbia and your personnel from the Communist Company are all involved in crime and corruption in the municipal enterprise. For your information, I just got word from my colleague Miroslav Talovic, do you know his name? The president of the SRS in Chačka, right? An MP in the state union, Serbia-Montenegro, has just continued to chair the polling committee and said that at least 20 criminal charges will have to be filed because you robbed and stole from the company everything that fell under your hands, from transformers to toilet paper, through everything else. What are you talking about? Cover your ears and keep quiet, listen to smart people and learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21214	Of course, the replica Mr. Markicevic. Please, he has no right to replicate. A communal company where transformers and toilet paper are stolen at the same time does not have the right to replicate. Personally mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21215	Miss Jovanovic, I must inform you, since you are uninformed, you are not the only one on this political scene who is uninformed. I'm president of IO New Serbia. Ms. Jovanovic, as far as toilet paper is concerned, that's what you of the SRS do. We do highways and concessions, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21216	Here you go. Natasa Jovanovic has her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21217	You know what, colleague Markicevic, you are not at all, in my humble opinion, and I believe all MPs present in the hall know that I know the Rules of Procedure very well. Then when the chairman disrespects him, I have some methods of handling it. This time, of course, I'll just, with a warning from the President of the Assembly, focus a little more on who has the right to replicate and transformer and every robbery, to tell you and to answer you. You shouldn't be afraid of it, but you should be ashamed of what our people would say, which you burned with a horse on a donkey. Since you, as chairman of a committee group, should have made sure that the committees in Chačka do not elect you to be president, that is, the chairman of the board of directors and directors of the businesses of thieves and criminals – of course someone had to, the president of your party, that is now your internal matter, to blame. You and Velimir Ilic and all those councilmen and all those who support such mob government in the municipality of Cačak are responsible. For ten years, you've been sitting there doing whatever you want and then telling us it's not important to have a transformer or a hygiene agent or anything! The people pay you huge bills for heating, for water, for everything you steal and steal. A thousand and a hundred people came into the SRS rooms in just a month with accounts that are astronomical, and that you and those you personally placed there invoiced, and gave them as your personnel proposals to kidnap the citizens of the property of Cacko and to rob them in such a way. Comrade Markicevic, anything you say further, only goes in favor of what we have brought here. And that you're a pendant in Kostunica's government. And now you said he was uninformed. Here, I am informing him this way that you are committing abuses in Chačka and that he has such a coalition partner, and the next time Mr. Ilic, your minister, who is not a successful minister, is indeed, by his behaviour and unprofessional attitude, one of the worst ministers that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has ever had, you will see how it will be conducted. Very often he doesn't know how to hit this door under the weight of our arguments. I invite him to continue the session. Yes, yes, by the weight of the amendment!- I'm sorry. I'll see, it's three o'clock. It depends on when it comes, what it's going to be like for him and how he's going to hit the front door. It's a bit of a problem for the afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21218	With no more speakers on this amendment, MP Aleksandar Djordjevic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 8a. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment. After Article 8, a new Article 8a is added, which reads: "The management of municipal roads and streets connecting the territory of the municipality, the city, as well as the territory of the municipality and the city with a network of national roads are carried out by municipal administrations, and for the city of Belgrade, the competent secretariat of the city administration." In the explanation that we have given, I believe that the new Article 8a is more precisely defined by the management of municipal roads, given that public roads management is a matter of general interest. The amendment submitted by the SRS to the Government's Bill on Public Paths was not accepted and the Government's reply was: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that the amendment under number 1, which also results in the original work of the unit of local self-government to determine the network manager of municipal roads and streets in its territory." I made it clear that, just as I was talking about this first amendment, which I submitted to the National Assembly, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that in the original section – the Law on Local Self-Government in Article 18, paragraph 1 point 10), this argument you have given for the first amendment is now being given for this amendment which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. But what is particularly important is that our amendment is closely linked to the reasons that you cited for the adoption of the law on public roads, which is, yes, a public company should be, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who will manage the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. An analogous to this, and in municipal administrations for the City of Belgrade and cities that have the status of the city, this refers to the competent secretariats for this activity. So the essence of the SRS amendment proposal is precisely in the program that we have, unlike your government that didn't have a program in this area. You have rejected this amendment as well as any previous amendments. With that in mind, I expect the MPs of the National Assembly to vote for the SRS amendment in the day of voting. The presentation of one of the ruling coalition MPs, who has said many primitive and ugly words here, speaks only of him, and I must say that the president of the Assembly had to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. I consider what is most important here and what we in the SRS advocate is that this National Assembly adopts laws that are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which are precise and clear and that will protect the interest of the Republic of Serbia as a state, given that we are talking about a law that is system law, a law on the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. In this case, we believe that the bill submitted by the Government to the National Assembly is one of the bad proposals. We tried to correct the amendments to this poor bill, which lacks a national strategy when it comes to the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, there is no clear concept. The law is written confusingly, inaccurately, and for this reason we have tried, as far as possible with amendments, to correct a bad legal solution. That was the aim of the SRS parliamentary group. We have a clear programme in this area, as well as in all areas of social life and the moment the elections are called, the SRS will get most of Serbia, will be able to form a government on its own and to rule in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21220	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21221	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for Article 11 that the Public Road Manager is obliged to mark and record public roads and traffic and other information on those routes. The minister responsible for traffic operations prescribes how registration is carried out, how the records and markings are kept. With the SRS concept, we spoke in earlier legal proposals that it is not the minister who can pass that kind of regulation, but the Ministry, for one simple reason, because the Ministry does not make the minister but the people who work in it. These are professional services, deputy minister, assistant ministers covering certain sectors, advisers, professional associates. It's a team of people working on a particular problem, they're preparing those regulations. The formal signator of these acts is the minister. However, behind the act, whether a decision or a manual or a proposal, which is already a form, stands the entire ministry. It is a principled position of the SRS and we have challenged, attacked in all legal projects where it appeared that the minister prescribed and made certain decisions. As regards Article 11, it refers to the way in which public roads, type and content of the records, the way in which the records are kept, the way in which the data is collected, and the conditions for the use of data in public road records. This is closely linked to Article 8 and the amendment, which was submitted by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, where we requested the removal of attitude 2. It is the same principled attitude of the SRS and the concept of the SRS that a road manager can only be a public enterprise. So, to exclude the possibility of entrepreneurs, socio-legal persons being managers of general goods that include public roads. Because here at point 2, where records are kept, there's a possibility of double keeping records, that one of the same records is run by a public firm and some authorised manager, some company that's authorized to deal with that kind of work. There is a possibility of duplicating certain transactions between a public enterprise and entrepreneurs who would do the same job. This is best seen in Article 7(3) where it is explicitly and decadently said that management of state roads is a matter of general interest. The legislator wanted to highlight the importance of managing public roads and declared it to be an activity of general interest. In the same article’s view, it states what falls under public road management, and states: using public road use (execution of public authority); protecting public road roads; performing professional work on construction, reconstruction, maintenance and public road protection; entering public road maintenance; monitoring of construction, reconstruction, maintenance, protection; planning of construction, reconstruction; keeping records of public roads and on traffic-technical data for these routes. So, they're taxing everything under public road management. These are all very significant functions and this should not be omitted, that the state allows itself the luxury of giving in to entrepreneurs and businesses, legal persons, to perform such important functions, management functions, which relate to a general good such as the state road or public road. One of the powers is "indulgence of public road maintenance works". The part, already, can be transferred to entrepreneurs and legal entities, and in that part, the public enterprise should be, in fact, transmission, on the one hand, between what is called the general and state interest and the interest of entrepreneurs and businesses to carry out certain work that is related to the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads. Only in that part could entrepreneurs and businesses appear. All of this, all the powers referred to in Article 7 should remain exclusively in the jurisdiction of the public undertaking, because it is an activity of general interest and the state would have to protect that general interest. Do you know that there have been abuses over the concessions of these works, about the asphalting of Belgrade-Nish highways -- who did it, how did it, what affairs came out of these affairs?- I'm sorry. That is why it is necessary to keep these governance functions to himself, through public enterprises. Article 14 also entrusts the public road manager with the exercise of public authority, which concerns the issue of certain consent and approval. It's generally said to the manager here, it's not told to a public firm. It is a little illogical to transfer powers to entrepreneurs and legal persons to issue consents concerning, for example, the works of the case, I will present: consent to the construction, or reconstruction of connections on a public road; consent to the construction of waterways, sewerage, heat lines, railways and facilities which are also connected to the public road; consent to construction in a safety belt along the public road; consent to the change of traffic surfaces of the accompanying content of the public road; consent to maintenance of sports or other events on the public road; special permits for carrying out extraordinary transport on the public road and approval for the setting up of advertising boards and advertising boards. I think it had to be in the exclusive jurisdiction of a public enterprise, because, by nature, things couldn't be passed on to someone else. The state, exclusively, must have control over it, precisely referring to this general interest that it is carrying out in this law, where Article 8 paragraph 3 states that, management of state roads is a matter of general interest. So you're declaring that road management is of general interest. But after the law, as you specify these powers, you divorce the whole thing and let the private sector get into the whole story. You have to understand that an entrepreneur, a legal person, protects their own partial, personal interests. They, through this work that they do, about public roads, above all, look at their own personal interest. The state, on the other hand, must protect the general interest. In a conflict of personal and general interest, I know who will lose!- I'm sorry. It will certainly be a state!- I'm sorry. As a result, I think the better concept represented by the SRS is that the general public interest is being cared for exclusively by a public enterprise and should not be mixed in the private sector, especially what I have listed in terms of records, approvals, consent and normatives that need to be met in the reconstruction and construction of public roads. The part where the private sector could be involved is in doing the work itself. The Construction and Planning Act has already partially arranged for certain companies, which want to deal with the road network, to have licenses, certain personnel, machines, equipment to even enter the business. So companies that meet these conditions get a license from the D.O.S. can apply for that part of the job. Only in that part of the job should the private sector be included, due to competition, prices. The greater competition, the more favourable the conditions of reconstruction and road construction, road maintenance. We don't have any principle remarks on that part. The only great danger is that this general or public interest is marred by including private sector managers, so entrepreneurs and legal entities, where the founders are private, about keeping records, plans, planning, granting certain consent, permits. We don't think there's a place for them and only a state should keep it right for itself, to protect that general interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21222	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 16th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 16th amendment, with corrections, was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the wish of the three MPs who have submitted the amendment in front of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group is, respecting the importance of the roads and their maintenance and the means needed to replace the percentage of "10.0%" in Article 16(2) by the percentage of "35%" in order for people who are dealing with this problem to provide more appropriate means to maintain the road, and I believe that they would be very happy to accept this amendment. I urge MPs to vote for this amendment in the day of voting, so that we have better quality and better ways and better maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21224	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Krajinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21225	This is a purely technical question. The term "engine vehicles on a public road" means all vehicles moving on a motor vehicle, not ships, boats, those who have freedom of movement; neither trains nor trams, they are directed. We're all drivers on a public road, we're all traveling, we're all driving. What bothers us the most? Tractors. They're public road participants, just like all other vehicles. It's unnecessary to write specially tractors, like special vehicles. Then why didn't you mention the combines? It's the same vehicle that's on the engine drive on the way. That's the essence of this change. There's no need for it to be special.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21226	Thank you, Mr. Krajinovic. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete, in Article 17, paragraph 1(2). The explanation of the amendment states that there are no motor-powered vehicles that are not covered by point 1 of this Article!!!- I'm sorry. Motor-powered termins and motor-powered vehicles mean exactly the same vehicles. This is the only way to confuse and enable various interpretations, and thus different solutions. Therefore, this refers to Article 17(1) of the Law on Public Roads, Chapter 3 – Public Road Financing, where it says: "For the use of the public road, compensation is paid, and that is: 2) annual compensation for vehicles on motor vehicles not covered by point 1) of this Article". Now the question is, what are those vehicles that aren't covered by this point 1? I think there's a big mix-up going on this way. This legislative proposal, which you gave to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, provides the possibility of different interpretations, and thus different solutions. So what I was saying, when we talked about the previous amendments and when I went out to talk about the amendments to the SRS, we ask that this amendment be accepted because we believe that in one clear and precise way, Article 17. The bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly and we hope that you will accept the SRS amendment. In your explanation, which you gave when you said no amendments were accepted, you stated, for reasons, that Article 17(2) of the Law prescribed annual compensation for those vehicles not covered by point 1) of this article, in order to pay from the funds paid, which are the revenues of the municipality, the financing of management and the network of municipal roads and streets. This explanation, given by the government to the National Assembly, means nothing essential. We believe that this Article 17 should be corrected, just like this, as we have submitted to the amendment; our aim was to make it clear to everyone that this law is interpreted, so that this law does not happen, Article 17 can be interpreted in a different way and that there are different solutions. So, as we have proposed all amendments under this bill, we from the SRS aim to improve this very bad legal project, which you have submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as far as possible. In voting day, we expect all MPs to vote in favour of the SRS amendment unless the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts the amendment. I think the arguments and arguments we talked about when we talked about previous amendments and when we talk about this amendment, which I submitted to Article 17. Proposal for a law on the public roads of the Republic of Serbia in front of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21228	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? To Article 17, submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, Natasa Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21229	I'm six inches tall, and when I sit in a bench clearly enough to be seen by Mr. Markovic, but if you're talking to yourself or looking at those papers outside, I can't wave to you from the bench. As for the amendments tabled by fellow Djordjevic and this previous one, which Mr Krajinovic will speak of, it is amazing, indeed, that very often in the performances of various TV shows Minister Ilic holds lectures, lectures and says: what they do not know, they do not know what concessions, they do not know what capital investments are, and it turns out that all amendments are designed to fix a law that is not defined and undefined, especially Article 17, which is completely unsettled when it comes to defining what a motor vehicle is. If Velimir Ilic or his associates, the creators of this bill don't know what a tractor is, I don't know what anyone would have to talk to them anymore and explain to them. If you do not accept this previous amendment will remain recorded, now I repeat that all citizens of Serbia hear it – Vela Ilic does not know what a tractor is!- I'm sorry. Let him come and deny me. For him, a tractor is not a motor vehicle. He knows what a badger is, I don't know what he knows anymore. But the minister doesn't know what a tractor is. A colleague Krajinovic laughs, is one of the writers of these amendments, but don't fool us with such bill proposals, because these children in preschool, not in the first grade of primary school, would reject, especially children living in the country, and they know what a tractor is and Velja Ilic doesn't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21230	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Once again, receive an apology for not noticing you enough. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Blagoja Krajinović. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Blagoja Krajinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21231	In Article 18, I asked that Article 2 be deleted for the simple reason that there is nothing to account for for the amount of compensation. It reads: "The amount of compensation provided for in Article 17(2) of this Law shall be determined by the competent authority of the municipality, i.e. the city". This relates to the point 2) of Article 17, which says "the annual compensation for motor-powered vehicles not covered by point 1) of this Article". Article 17 says that all motor vehicles at point 1) are already covered. At point 2) they don't exist, it's "air." So the municipality can charge charges on this point from "air," nothing else. There is practically no motor vehicle to which the municipality can, at this point, charge as a fee. That's the essence of this amendment, and I'm asking you to delete this, it's completely illogical, because there's nothing to charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21232	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. If you agree to take a five-minute break after we've crossed more than half the amendments. Five minute break, based on consultation with Mr. Krasic. Thank you. [[After break – 15,50]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to add a new position on 2nd in Article 40 after Article 1, which reads: "In order to change the traffic surfaces of the accompanying content of the public road, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the public undertaking for state roads, consent from the municipal administration for municipal roads, and for the City of Belgrade the consent of the competent secretary of the city administration. "In the explanation I have given, the management of the public roads of the Republic of Serbia is a measure of general interest, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is to be dealt with by a public company whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Analyzingly, when fellow SRS MPs spoke up to defend the amendments we have submitted, we came out clearly with the concept and our programme that a public company, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should manage the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the general interest. That is what is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative act by the Republic of Serbia. The essence of our amendments, as well as this amendment, is that it is clearly and precisely defined by the legal solution of matter that you proposed to the National Assembly to this bill. We don't think it's precisely defined. Our amendment is exactly in line with the SRS programme, believing that we also have a basis in the reasons for the adoption of the emergency procedure law, which you stated, when the government submitted this bill and put it into the assembly procedure, that a public enterprise, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should manage the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. The point is that's exactly what it is. Speaking of which, you gave us a reason not to accept the amendment that I submitted, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 40, and you gave the following answer: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that are not accepted by Amendment No 1, which also results in the original work of the local self-government unit determining the network manager of municipal roads and streets in its territory." Of course, we have made such an amendment, and we have made it clear that the public enterprise, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the founder of such an enterprise that will deal with the management of the state roads of the first and second order, we consider it to be the public enterprises that should manage public roads. Not private entrepreneurs or any other legal persons, because we believe that this is of general interest, as well as that it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative act. We believe that the government's response is not in line with the reasoning given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the reasons for the adoption of the law on the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't accept the amendment. I don't think you've paid attention to these amendments to the SRS. The main goal for you is to bring this legislative project, which is not well and accurately written, to a rapid pace, and the consequences will be safe for Serbia and Serbian citizens. In this assembly, we must pass laws that will be precise, which will be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which will resolve legal and legal legislation in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative act. I think that, in our statements for this speaker, we have made a clear argument, which is why in the voting day, unless the government accepts this amendment, as it has said it does not accept, we believe that the MPs will vote for the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, given all these arguments that I have made. If you do not, then you will show that you are doing what the previous DS government did, which has given Serbia 100 years back. If we really want to make legal projects and laws that will be compatible with the countries of the European Union, then we will pass precise laws that will define the matter of these specific legal projects, which are also very important for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, you will bring here laws that are precise and that will be in the interest of the citizens and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21235	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Blagoja Krajinović submitted to the 44th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Krajinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21236	I really respect your colleges, your PhDs and everything you've gotten for years of work, but the law to write just to write it, to show how you think about everything, I don't think there's any point. This is a non-applicable member. The provisions of this article prohibit certain public roads. That's good. The question is, who's going to sanction those shops? We in Vojvodina today have only two inspectors covering the roads. They're supermen, so they can fly, they can't get to every place, they can cover all of this, and they can execute this member. There's no way they're doing this. They can't react on time, and they can't physically do it. My conclusion is that this member should go to the Traffic Safety Act, because there are only people who can implement this member, and that's traffic police. No one else can do it on the ground but them. That's the essence of this amendment, and that's why I think he's good and he needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21237	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jaksic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21238	Dear President, dear colleagues, this amendment concerns part of the law that prevents damage to public roads and the measures provided for by this law to prevent it. In particular, this amendment refers to a member who, in that sense, is subject to control by the so-called ‘registration’ in point 1. emergency transport, i.e. those vehicles whose dimensions, axle load, total mass, length and height are outside what is provided for in the law. As provided for in Article 1(1), the control of the maximum permissible axle load, the total mass, the dimensions of vehicles transporting on a public road, shall be carried out by the authorised official of the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, the traffic police, the authorised person in charge of traffic operations, or the authorised person of the municipal, or city authority in charge of traffic operations. I have proposed in this amendment that in Article 1 which defines who has the right to exercise such control, in this Member of the law, after the word "authorised person of the Ministry of Traffic Affairs", is inserted and the part in which it is said to have the right and "authorised person of the company who directly measures the vehicle directly with special equipment, on the basis of an agreement with the Public Enterprise". The meaning of this amendment is practical, there's no other reason. It is simply necessary to carry out certain technical preparations, shops and technical activities in this kind of control with the appropriate equipment, it must be carried out, i.e. to professionally complete the work. If we were to lose this amendment, we would be in a position for those persons, i.e. the bodies that have been given the bill, to obtain special equipment, and that equipment should be used by trained persons, to train those persons, to identify new persons, to further employ persons in these bodies. This is how we would use the situation if already existing companies, so companies that have the right trained people and the right equipment, could, in accordance with the law, or according to the agreement, which would be made with a public enterprise, for the roads of Serbia, be able to do this job, which would be much more cost-effective, more professional, and with the right equipment to get the right results, and on that basis we would get a permit or not get a vehicle permit in so-called. emergency transport. It's a completely practical thing. We have, at this point, one company and it's not public. So it's "Serbian Way." This company unites all enterprises for roads in Serbia or the largest majority, and these are not public enterprises, they deal with matters of public interest, so to speak, maintain a travel network and have this equipment, they have qualified people and I think they can absolutely do this in a kind of agreement, or that this job will simply be difficult to carry out, because, traffic cops are not the ones who can do these manuals, installing vehicles, measurements that have to be made by an authorised person, who knows it does. The inclusion of some other persons, the assignment to those bodies in Article 49 of the Law, would lead to material and perhaps technical problems, the purchase of new equipment, would thus reduce all of this to one practical measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21239	The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21240	The essence of this amendment is, above all, that the law clearly defines how public road protection is being carried out. Our amendment concerns, above all, the excessive use of the public road, where we are asking for the minister to be authorised to determine the amount of compensation for overuse. The bottom line is that individual highways, local roads, or the roads of the first and second lines, are used much more than planned and precise, and all in case certain actions are carried out. Especially in my Pogorevac, or Pogorec road – Kostolac for years is a regional road, and it is used for transporting coal and it comes to destroying roads, because it is used not only for the purpose for which it is intended, but its burden requires that there be more maintenance, or more frequent. The amendment also refers to all cement plants carrying out transport, i.e. the production and transport of cement, then forest administrations, using roads for NIS. These are only examples, and the point is that the minister can prescribe, by means of his own act, a company, or a person who carries out economic activity, based on excessive use, the extent of the damage and the speed of maintenance, or the need to maintain that path, that is, to be in his normal function. Also, in the context of all this, I would simply remind myself that the Privatisation Agency could do so by its own acts, whether it is the Management Board or on a proposal from the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, that those companies that use the public road to achieve their economic function, that the funds that were, to be, absolutely, transferred to a republican public enterprise, means that it maintains public roads, that these privatisation funds be the initial means, i.e. the means that this network, the travel network in the Republic of Serbia, and how to restore. These are companies that are formed to maintain public roads, but also companies that gain income, i.e. their economic activity, such as auto-transport companies or bus companies, means that they will use those routes, so that from their privatisation, everything, by a certain act, and also on a proposal by the Minister for Capital Investments, will be directed towards the maintenance of roads. I'm sure by these means we'll have a much better and more developed network.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21241	The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21242	Very briefly, to support what my colleague Kekic said, let me say, one appeal and a request for this and this amendment to be accepted. It's not just forest land, it's about big combinations. For example, in Smederev's "U.S. Steel" as a large combination which and how it uses public roads to bring an impute for production, of course, by means of transport and vehicles that are used, and how it threatens roads. It's hard to regulate it at the level of local self-government and so large systems like U.S. Steel and earlier Sartide. I think the amendment is in place and it would be good for the minister to regulate these things with his act and protect public roads.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21243	On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by the National Assembly of Blagoje Krajinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Blagoja Krajinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21244	In order to understand why I have submitted this amendment, I have to read Article 1 of Article 53 where it is said: 'Organ, which, in the sense of the legislation governing traffic security on roads, is responsible for technical traffic regulation (hereinafter referred to as "the authority responsible for technical traffic regulation), can prohibit traffic or traffic of a particular type of vehicle on a public road, part or road facility, except on the highway, if required by the maintenance of sports or other manifestations, provided that traffic may be rerouted to other public roads', and then it is said 'in the prior consent of the public road manager on which the maintenance of sports or other events is required'. In point 2, you say that the authority responsible for technical traffic regulation is obliged to notify the authority responsible for internal affairs and public road manager. If the public road manager is already giving consent in advance, why should they inform him again, if he has already given consent. Why do the administration keep increasing and increasing, and do you know how much it takes to get one permit out of a certain person – 15 or 20 days, minimum. When you look at all this, it already takes 15 or 20 days to get consent and then another 15 or 20 days to notify the public road manager to give some consent again. So, twice, it gives consent to the public road manager. That's why I said that Article 2 is supposed to throw out "and the road manager" and it's not supposed to work the same way. That's what, I think this law multiplys administration all the time and doubles jobs, some papers that a man needs to pull out to get a chance to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21245	Anyone else on this amendment. MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21246	Dear colleagues, I think this amendment to the SRS is in order to improve the law, and I think that the resolute ministry should certainly accept it, but I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the citizens of the Khol municipality on the establishment of the assembly, the local assembly, in accordance with the will of the citizens, which is shown in the elections. To congratulate the president of the assembly, from the ranks of the SRS, and the deputy president of the assembly, from the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21247	It's always chosen from the ranks of the majority. Member of the 61st Amendment has been submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radeta, by the Government, who has not accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21248	Mr Krasic is trying to tell you that 82 is larger than 53, compared to what you just said, that most of the government, or government, is being formed. This bad Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly every time we talk about a law in particular, it makes me come back briefly, reminding myself and fellow MPs, and the public who is following us, what is it really about? Let me remind you, yes, today we are talking about a bill on public roads, in particular, amendments, and what we talked about in the principle debate on this law. We said then, I will repeat, that this bill is incomplete, that it is imprecise and I would say it seems incomplete. And that's when I told you, now I'm going to say that you've made a bad mix of Croatian and Slovenian law, and that it would be better if you'd defined yourself as just one or any one, when you haven't already done our identical Serbian law. In discussions of colleagues from the SRS you heard mostly our remarks on amendments and we, when we wrote these amendments in the parliamentary group, then we agreed that this is exactly the kind of concept and approach we have to this law, you will see, even, even later, in some amendments where we have asked to delete some members. We did so to warn the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing, that some things had been incorporated into this law completely contrary to sound logic, that there should have been a lot of things in this proposal to regulate the Law on traffic safety on the roads. And also about human resources, that is, problems. In one of the amendments, we mentioned the fact that in Vojvodina, you only have two inspectors on the roads. We even suggested that this member be deleted. A colleague who, I don't know if Krajinovic or who submitted the amendment, will say more about it. So the point is that we tried to distract ourselves in this way, and here we are now telling you, as representatives of the Ministry, that the Ministry must make sure that operations in this area are raised to some more significant level. Because everyone in Serbia knows that the Minister of Capital Employment, I don't know, thousands already count, how many people in his ministry, put them all in his cabinet environment and around the cabinets, and there are no people in the field who should be doing the job and in the application of this law and even when it comes to travel. I also want to point out, for the sake of the public above all, that the SRS has been programmable for 15 years since we exist, defined for concessions, when it comes to travel networks and public works, we say that in every election campaign. I'm saying this so you don't get the impression that we're opposed to road construction concessions. Of course not, but there's another problem. The problem is that we don't trust each other based on the experiences we have, especially in the last five years, we don't trust government officials, government ministers, and we can't trust each other by reminding the MPs that we had here a few months ago, giving consent to some concession on a road that had already been built. So we should know what the concession is. A concession cannot be given on a built road and someone is taking tolls for a road built by the citizens of Serbia. It's just not allowed, and we've had a case like that here. We also had a counter-guarantee case – that this assembly gave counter-guarantee to a private company, which refers to the railway. Of course, I mention this because and when the railway was talked about, the Law on Railways, we drew attention that I couldn't public resources, that neither roads nor railways could be given to privates in the way that, when I say you, of course, think of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the congregation majority, not to you personally, that you can't be given to privates. The concession is something else and it is not what is now being done in Serbia. You, or the minister, especially often boasts of some of your epochal and capital achievements. Unfortunately, that's not true. All citizens of Serbia know the roads, how long they work, how much toll on which road, etc. They cannot hide these obvious things from the citizens of Serbia, because it is something that citizens face every day. The problem, too, in the travel industry at all, in the construction of roads, is, unfortunately, I have to say, mostly criminal actions when it comes to road construction. It's mostly money laundering in unlimited quantities. People who are very close to both the Ministry and businesses that work on these roads really have data that is fraternizing and that we from the SRS occasionally go public, not occasionally, but when we get it. You will see these days and what kind of torture and crime it is when it comes to building Nemanja Street in Belgrade. Wherever it goes, wherever you start to do something, or government, representatives of Belgrade's government or city government, wherever there's something going on about high fees, it's about stealing, it's about making citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade try to make themselves crazy, and they're not, they're smart, intelligent citizens, they know. Whoever you see, whoever you're talking to, you get on a bus, a taxi, at the market, wherever, the basic comment when it comes to roads, streets, people say -- here it is, every year it's done, or one street is done every year, and it's known how it's done. Make yourself fusher, take the money, after the first frost and thaws create holes on those same roads. I'm not saying anything right now that people don't know. I know this isn't the discovery of America, but I really need to remind the citizens of Serbia that we from the SRS know this perfectly, that we are aware of everything that is done and how money is taken from the pockets of Serbian citizens and that we are trying, at least through laws that come here for discussion and decision-making, we are trying and competent ministers, when they are able to listen to us here, although you will now say, perhaps, President, that the government is going on -- I don't believe that this is taking this long, but good and if it lasts, I appreciate it. According to the Rules of Procedure, there are gentlemen who can attend, only again the problem of our Rules of Procedure, not theirs that those people cannot communicate with us, except when we go outside the O.R., and that's not good. That is why every time we insist on being a representative of the government here, a minister who can say that the amendment is accepted or said that the amendment cannot be accepted for that and for that reason. In this case, however, we have an opinion of the Government which, of course, does not satisfy and I will tell you why, and previously to remind you that I have submitted an amendment to Article 61. Article 61 of the original text reads: "The Minister adopts a regulation on the regular, periodic and urgent maintenance of a state road that is closer to the arrangements of the types of works, technical conditions and how the works are carried out". The second position – "The municipal, or city authority responsible for traffic operations is the regulation of the attitude of 1st member for municipal roads and streets". We have proposed that, instead of the minister, the competent ministry lays down a regulation on regular, periodic and urgent maintenance of a state road that is closer to editing the types of works, technical conditions and how to perform the work', for several reasons. The first reason is, in principle, the SRS, that the minister cannot have any special powers, the minister is only a civil servant and he is head of the ministry, but the ministry is part of the government. The minister is not part of the government, but the ministry is part of the government and the ministry must be an organ within the government of the Republic of Serbia that has these and various other powers, which not only in this law, but otherwise, it is now a fashion hit to give ministers competences that are not logical to have. That's one reason. The second reason is, specifically at this time, we do not trust Minister Velimir Ilic. Something like this to let him go, we're just afraid. The third thing, in the same article in the second position, you say, "The municipal, or city authority responsible for traffic operations is the regulation of the 1st position of this member for municipal roads and streets." Why didn't you give this to some name and name in the municipalities or some specific function in municipalities and cities? Why didn't you say it was the municipal or city manager, like Bojan Stanojevic? When he was asked, the other day, the journalists why Nemanja's street works this way, why it's completely closed, why it didn't work in July and August, at a time when they were vacationing, he thought he was very smart and he said – everyone in the world is doing this, we'll try it with Nemina, so if it's good we'll do it in the future and we haven't worked in July and August because we can't finish in two months anyway, we'd have to continue for another month or two days. Then he, so smart, came up with it that it was better for citizens to be harassed for four months than for two months. We are not surprised by Stanojevic, by the Democrats, they have a special approach to stealing money, it is an integral part of them, their everyday life. Why does the government say she didn't accept this amendment? ''Amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that Article 23 is Article 2. The State Administration Act... prescribed that the Minister represents a ministry, adopts regulations and solutions in administrative and other individual matters and decides on other issues from the section of the ministry's work." First, the law on public roads is not a lex specialis law on state administration. This is a system law. It is completely irrelevant how it is regulated in this law on the state administration, but on the other hand, when it comes to the state administration, we expressed our principled position that it cannot stand as a minister, but rather as it is a ministry, because it is not logical, if you have an act, the regulation, it is not logical, it stands here – the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so a number and it is so normal and so logical, and imagine that it just stands here – the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and the number below. Of course, every act must and should be signed by someone who is at the head of a particular authority and is not disputed that it is a minister, but it cannot be the minister who will pass the regulation on regular, periodic and urgent road maintenance. After all, he is not a superman, even if he was a "capital" Velja Ilic, it is impossible that he is able to do all these jobs. Then it is not correct for him to do it to someone in the ministry or to do it to one department within the ministry and to do it to people, he just signs it, but here he stands – the minister. It's a special kind of abuse. So I think these are very logical reasons why we in the SRS don't think this is a good solution, we're essentially not changing anything in this article. The fundamental amendment neither changes the concept of the law nor changes anything compared to what the Government has proposed, but it is simply not a good solution, and I repeat that whenever we see in the SRS a bill, we will intervene in both the debate and the amendment, as long as we do not convince this government that it is not good. Or, let's just wait a little while longer and then we, as the president of the assembly just said, that most of us are forming power, that we definitely do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21249	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Blagoja Krajinović submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Krajinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21250	I come from a city where we're trying to build an industrial zone. We're doing some land regulation. We needed 27 permits, which required consent, which all the papers so that this plan could be brought to an end at all and that it could go to a public debate. It took us six and a half months as a municipal government to collect papers so we could even run that plan, get it out of the dead. For each consent, it took a minimum of 15 days to win. Article 62 says that public road maintenance works are usually performed in such a way as not to prohibit traffic on the road. Any work done on any road requires technical documentation. The technical documentation already contains all possible consent so that any work on the roads can be done. One of the consents must be given by the public road manager. So he's already been informed and has already given consent through technical documentation and why he would give consent again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21251	Thank you, Mr. Krajinovic. Anyone else report for the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 63. A bill on public roads, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. We ask that Article 63 paragraph 3 be changed and that it reads: "The competent authority of the municipal administration for road and street maintenance operations, i.e. the competent authority of the city's road maintenance office, maintains additional elements, facilities and equipment of the state road built for the needs of the settlement". We believe that, as in the proposed Article 8a, it means, and to the new member that we have submitted as an amendment to the SRS to the Public Roads Act, it is the exact same argument. However, I will read Article 63(1) read: "The public company maintains August construction and traffic signalling, except for light traffic signs, on the part of the state road passing through the settlement, as an integral part of the state road, in the width of August of that road outside the settlement." Item 2 says: "The municipality, i.e. the city, carries a proportional part of the cost of maintaining the state road in the settlement, if for the purpose of the settlement the road is built with a wider August than outside the settlement". Position 3. We asked to change, according to the proposing, the government of the Republic of Serbia: "The road manager and the streets maintain additional elements, facilities and equipment of the state road that were built for the needs of the settlement". I think we are absolutely clear on this amendment to Article 63(3). - because we're asking it to change completely and that's what it says, because we think it's precisely defined this way. In the reasons for the adoption, as you stated to the National Assembly, you say, "Being in mind that the Republic Road Directorate is educated by the Law on Roads as a special organisation, a change in the status of the Directorate, i.e. creating a legal basis for the establishment of a public enterprise in this area, is possible only by amending the applicable Law on Roads". So we need to change the applicable Law of Ways. We need to form a public enterprise, the founder of which will be the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So our amendment applies, too, when it comes to municipal administrations, when it comes to the City of Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, means cities that have the status of the city. This must be precisely specified by the Law on Public Roads and by the untegorised roads of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think you have any good reason to refuse the amendment to the SRS. As my colleague clearly explained here, that the law is not precise enough, we tried to fix one bad legal project, which you submitted to the National Assembly, if you want us to pass laws here, and we are passing laws in order for the state to have clear laws, which are in line with the highest legislative act – the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is most important for us in this assembly, the SRS, not only do we apply in these amendments to the SRS, to be in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, as states and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, for this pay phone, each of us who went out, defending the amendments that we have submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have a clear and precise goal. We ask the National Assembly, of all MPs, to vote in favour of the amendments to the SRS, because we clearly define a better and more precise project in our amendments, which we have submitted to the National Assembly. So, we bring this legal solution, which was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, and a colleague of Radeta clearly told me before me, that a bad combination between the laws passed by the Slovenian Assembly or the Croatian Parliament, which is absolutely true, although the Slovenian Assembly and the Croatian Parliament have brought far better law in this area of public roads than this bill. The SRS aims, in this assembly, if you do not want to accept our amendments, then the public in Serbia should hear the argument of what we stand for. We are in favour of passing precise laws in this assembly that are in the interests of Serbian citizens that are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative act in our country. What is particularly important, what I want to point out, is that nowhere in this amendment does it violate the principle that we want our legislation to be compatible with EU legislation, given that we are a transit country, that there is no, what Mr. Minister said in the previous presentation, when he was present, is not present today, but I am sorry that he is not here, to say it here in person, he said in a way that scares the citizens of Serbia, that we will be bypassed as a state, unless we adopt this law by an urgent procedure. You submitted this legal project to the National Assembly in February; today we entered the 11th month of 2005. By doing so, you have had plenty of time to fix this legislative proposal, work it out, clearly specify and comply with what the Council of Europe, the EU and so on asked for. Do not constantly refer to this story of EU accession. Serbia is a transit country, it is located in Europe, it depends on us, when we pass these laws, whether we will be able to apply them, to be, when applied, in accordance with the Constitution and the state interests and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, in this bill, you skipped one very important part, and so said a colleague, a member of one of the ruling parties, in the context of her presentation in principle, who completely agreed with what I said when I said there was no national strategy in this bill when it comes to public roads of the Republic of Serbia, which are well of general interest. What should be our goal in this National Assembly is to pass laws that will be applicable in practice, which will be in the interest of Serbian citizens and which, above all, will be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's the aim of the SRS. Obviously, we want the elections at the republic's level to be discussed as quickly as possible, that the DSS authorities, with their coalition partners, who at the moment do not enjoy the trust of more than 15% of Serbian citizens, go and form a new government, whose head will be the SRS, and then these legal projects, which you have brought here, will have to be repaired.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21253	Thank you, Mr. Djordjevic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted the amendment to Article 66. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21254	Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment to Article 66. The SRS has tried to fix this member, similar to the previous members, it is a matter of jurisdiction to adopt regulations, whether the minister or ministry is in charge. In particular, Article 66 regulates the question of the conditions of construction and reconstruction of public roads. In point 2. The proposal reads: "For the construction and reconstruction of the state road, along with the idea project of that road, the following idea projects are developed: the troupe of roads, road facilities, connections, intersections, crossings, road facilities, traffic signalling and road equipment". Those ideas should have some framework, some content. According to the bill, it is the minister who is closer to prescribing the content of ideas for certain elements of the country's path. Despite my best wishes, I can't believe Minister Velimir Ilic is very understanding of the idea projects of certain parts of the road concerning traffic signals, equipment, roads, road hulls, intersections. If you understood the idea of designing a lamp, you'd understand that, but if you understood the idea projects of the state road and that he prescribed it himself, I don't think anyone could believe it. He himself will not believe that he should be able to contain ideas for certain elements of the country's path, and that is why it is pointless to pass, not only through this text of the law, but through the laws that we have so far had in the assembly procedure, where the adoption of sublegal acts, regulations, which are closer to regulating the application of the law, when we all know that the minister is still a political function and that he is headed by an agreement of the ruling majority, and not solely by his expertise. Although he is a master, and I think he has also declared himself a professor at a technical school or I don't know what he's done in Chačka, he's more famous for some excesses he's had on TV with journalists and some phone conversations he's had with journalists, so I'd rather believe he's a bigger expert on the lamp than on Serbia's travel network. I think, yes, in principle, the SRS must remain in that only the competent ministry can regulate regulations any closer, meaning a conflict of laws, not a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21255	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. Is anyone answering for the same amendment? Yeah. ) On the same amendment, it is the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21256	I think not only in this law, but in many laws on the agenda of the National Assembly session, this obvious irregularity has been eroded. Namely, in the appointment of a competent state authority, you use the first person of a single function. The minister is not an organ. He's head of the state authority. Our constitution says the ministries are the authorities of the state administration. In particular, this Article defines the power to adopt sub-legislative acts. If that jurisdiction is defined, it shall appear through the authority, not through the first person of the single function. It's a great shortage not only of this law, but of those who were earlier on the agenda, and of those who followed this agenda. So, from the point of view of the Constitution, our law and the legal technique to be applied, if it is to be declared that a government body is responsible for these issues, then it is said - the ministry responsible for issues, and in particular, traffic and connections, not the minister responsible for traffic and connections. The Authority of State Administration is not a personal property. The authority of the state administration is not recognized by a changing individual, who has been sitting in a chair in some ministry for some time. So that's the point of this amendment. The second part that can be interpreted from this amendment, specifically in this article, is primarily about some sublaws, where this law empowers the competent ministry to bring them, which are technical characters, but not just technical character. There are some sublegal data concerning technical standards and there are sublegal acts that constitute a programming basis for some acts. Probably, the idea project of any of these routes from that member must be in line with the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. It is likely that a project task for such an idea project must also be to adhere to technical standards. In that sense, this amendment should be interpreted as spreading to all those members where you incorrectly refer to the competent authority of the state administration, the Ministry of Traffic Affairs, the minority only to place the name and last name of the current minister. In that sense, we have submitted the amendment. As far as I'm concerned, I have to tell you, no matter who the minister is, technical regulations and normatives are known by their signature only to be verified by the minister, and it's known that professional services are preparing and doing so and it's perfectly normal. As far as we're capable of following those standards, that's another question. How much we are able, i.e. the competent ministry and other authorities, to exercise control of whether standards are respected in construction and reconstruction, that is a central issue. I'm sorry that this ministry of yours doesn't have any more significant authority over what's going on with road reconstruction in Belgrade. This is chaos. This is what the Democratic Party is doing on purpose. They've opened 120 streets and now for two hours, you're running a car around Belgrade, downtown, to find a place to walk into the right street to get in and out of some street where you need to finish the job. (The Verse of Radeta, from the place: Bojan Stanojevic "washs the money". All right, well, whoever launders the money, let the other ministry handle it. That's where you had to get involved, and you had to lie down with your shoulders. You do whatever you want, but figure out how much cost of living is due to it. People have opened 120 blocks and are waiting. What are they waiting for now? No asphalt? The minister ate the asphalt, so there is no asphalt, so what is waiting for him now? It's another donation. At the time of the European championship, the DS in Belgrade opened up those streets. Why does someone represent us in such a light? It didn't have to open 120 blocks. It could open 10 blocks this month, so it ends in 10 days, so the next month it opens 10 blocks, and it ends in a month and a month. I need you to set those standards. Here everyone, in this city's traffic authority, how he puts a sign on the street like that. By yesterday, she was passing through, and now she's not a street passerby. Your ministry or that part of the Ministry of Traffic has to be involved in some way. Regardless of these criticisms, the SRS has a principled position – state administration authorities are the most responsible for the state of play in the country. Can't the authority of the state administration itself propose laws in which he cuts his own jurisdiction. It's not decentralisation, it's chaos. So you watered down this system of ours, the organization and the way the state works, so that every piece of shit wonders about things and you ask the Ministry, and they say, no, we're not in charge, we have an agency, a directorate, an institution, they're in charge. Local government does whatever they want. I had to expand this a little bit, to distract you, don't devalue the authorities of the state administration. The constitution doesn't allow you to do that. This assembly would have to stop that trend that exists in the government, because you misunderstood that principle of decentralisation, deetatization, everything and everything you mean by that. You're responsible for the state's functioning. Everything and everything you mean by that. You're responsible for the state's functioning. It works if the functions of the state are fulfilled, and you suggest laws in which you run from state functions. That's why we're putting up with the amendments. That's why we're criticizing you. You know that we're right, because in a collision with reality, you see that your hands are tied. We do not want your hands tied so that you may not escape. When you tighten Velimir Ilic for something, he says, "I can't, these in Belgrade won't let me." We don't need a minister like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21257	Anyone else on this amendment? (No) The 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Krasic explained here why in the amendments we insist that the word "minister" should be replaced by the words "competent ministry". It is precisely that trend that this government has taken, that in some way, under the decentralisation story, we are putting it into a situation to misread the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative act of the Republic of Serbia. So, we have submitted an amendment to Article 85, which says in Section 1, "The Minister prescribes the basic conditions which public road outside the settlement and its elements must meet from the point of view of traffic safety and the similarity of the road to traffic". In point 2, the minister says, "The basic conditions that bus stops and parking lots, which are part of the public road, must be met." We have explained, in our explanation, that in Article 85, paragraph 1, and the second word "Minister" is replaced by the words "competent Ministry". Not to repeat, my colleague Krasic made that clear. We have, in reason, said that we believe that the competent Ministry of Transport is the Ministry of Capital Investment, as you have called it, which is now for the sake of roads and railways. So, Velija Ilic is for water, air, for all experts, and he needs everything to be signed. I will return to this amendment and the previous amendments that we have submitted in order to correct this government legal project as far as possible, although it was primarily our goal for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider this amendment to the SRS a little better than it has considered and in such an arrogant way rejected all the amendments that we have submitted to the National Assembly. De facto, you have accepted only one amendment from all amendments submitted by the MPs, which is an amendment that speaks of the day when this law will enter into force. You submitted this project to the National Assembly in February, and now it's November and it was logical that you would accept such an amendment. What is essential and what we in the SRS have insisted on in our exhibitions is that Serbian citizens are informed and that they know what this legal project, which the Serbian government has submitted to the National Assembly, is in an area that is very important. Practically, this is one system law that needs to address the issue of the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, because it is good of general interest. That is why in this bill, which does not even contain this basic element, it is a national strategy that a government must have when it comes to public roads in one country, in this case to the Republic of Serbia, which is, above all, a transit country and there is no concern that someone will bypass us, or the European Union, if we do not bring this law in haste, and to be so inaccurate, to be unclear, to be contradictory. Many members of this law see contradictions. What we can only agree with you is that public road management should work for a public enterprise whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and analoguely, this applies to municipalities, local self-government, cities where the status of the city exists, such as the capital of Belgrade, such as Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac. What is essential, the SRS, for the sake of correcting a bad legal solution submitted by the government to the National Assembly, has submitted more than 20 amendments, of course, with the aim of obtaining a more precise form of the legal project. We believe that you have bypassed a very important essence, that there is no strategy in this law, there is no development program. Once a year, you would have to report to the National Assembly on what you did when it comes to the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, above all I mean the state roads of first and second order. It is the third year that the DSS is in power and we have so far not received a single report from your government when it comes to this area. This speaks of how much your Ministry is and how unable your government is to lead the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the citizens of Serbia suffer because of it. Today, citizens of Serbia are having a hard time living, and the aim of all of us national MPs, who have been elected by citizens of Serbia, should be to live better, that this assembly brings quality, precise and clear laws that will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. That's what the SRS will stand for. We had a clear programme and we have a clear programme when it comes to the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. What I said and what my colleagues in the SRS said, it says that when the government came together like this, it had no clear program. That is even one of the ministers -- the finance minister said about this speaker, that it was a serious government and that he would have resigned at that time, if they had not, say, a programme in the area of finance. Here, you don't have a program in the field of public roads either. It is very important that Serbian citizens hear that the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the DSS, which is the majority in that government, did not have a clear programme when it comes to the system laws that you have proposed here to the National Assembly. The SRS is eager to wait for these republican elections and then we will have to correct everything that you've done so far, what the previous DS government has done, their MPs. Of course, they're not in the Assembly, because they can't be here, their explanations would be ridiculous. They have reversed Serbia for 100 years, and are constantly talking about it from these structures, reportedly, about how Serbia should go to Europe. Of course, Serbia is part of Europe and will always be part of Europe, but we cannot pass such imprecise laws, but we must pass laws that are, above all, precise and clear, which will be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which will be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21259	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Krajinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21260	We're coming to criminal provisions. From Articles 95 to 99, there are 190 criminal provisions, when all together are added together. It's all nice, just who's going to spend it, who's going to charge for it, that's what I was saying about Article 44. I suggest you sign up here, 'Minister', 'cause there's a minister all over the place, so why don't you go ahead and get the minister to charge the fines. Let him go from house to house, and let him charge the punishments, and to the people who are in the way. It's strange that the minister has some places, so he's the one in charge, and he puts the ministry in some places. The departments are usually where everything is ticklish. There's no minister here, there's no minister. That's what I've tied to Article 44 and it's true that it's inconclusive, because there's no one to charge these criminal provisions, there's no institution, and the 44th says the inspector is working on checks, fees, etc. Few people work on roads, few operatives, no people. There are no law enforcement officers that can solve these problems. It's really much more important and much better for this point, therefore, to transfer to the Traffic Safety Act and to where these people can actually enforce that law, which can do their job properly, to charge for it. You know who that is, the traffic police, who can work. They are the ones who can enforce the law on the spot, and the only real solution is to apply the law on the spot. So that's how it makes sense and it has a basis. The most important thing is that everything else be taken by the minister, so let these people be punished, and that's the most important thing of all, that's where he takes the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21261	I apologize, Mr. Djordjevic, not 17 months, but 19 months. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21262	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 97 relating to criminal provisions, and this article is prescribed fines of 200,000 dinars to 1,000 million dinars for certain violations. These are the offences listed in Article 44, to which the amendment was filed by MP Krajinovic and who wanted this amendment to be deleted. Of course, the result of this amendment is that all the other amendments we have proposed, so that all the provisions of the laws concerning that member are deleted. However, I would briefly comment, of course, with everything Mr Krajinovic said about Article 44. Namely, there are listed actions that are banned on the public road and there are taxing 18 actions, some of which are placed in criminal acts, and some in violations and 19) the point is something of general character. It's unclear to me why the first four acts are crimes, and all the rest are violations, so the first four are punished as criminal acts of imprisonment for a certain duration, and all the others are punished by fines. There are some illogicalities and I'll give you a few examples. Point 4 of Article 44 states: "It is forbidden to release water, waste water and other liquids on the road." In Article 95, it is said – whoever commits this crime will be punished by imprisonment from three months to one year for the release of water and some other fluids on the road. Immediately, 5) a point afterwards says – one that prevents the swelling of water from the road etc., according to Article 97 is fined from 200,000 dinars to 1,000,000 dinars. Imagine now the situation, a man who carries water or any other liquid by a tanker, happens to him on the road, not by his intention and desire, comes to a standstill, to spill fluid, he is punished by imprisonment from three months to one year, and he who deliberately prevents swelling, therefore, and fluid from the road, is punished by a fine. So it's possible for someone to accidentally drop water or other fluid on the road without deliberately preventing swelling. So the law brings them into completely different absurd situations. The first is punished by prison, there is no other option, and the second is punished by fines. Therefore, there are illogicalities in Article 44 and, of course, in all other provisions relating to that member. We have suggested that this article be deleted and that this matter be regulated, we are not against it to regulate, but to regulate the Traffic Safety Act, because it is more appropriate there than in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21263	Another apology, Mr. Djordjevic, is not 19 months, but 20 months, today is November 3rd, I apologize, we happen to make a mistake. Member of the 98th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21264	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment submitted by fellow Members Momir Markovic in front of the SRS parliamentary group, requires that paragraphs 24 to 53 be deleted in Article 98(1)) and points 39 to 68). So, the reasoning that we have given, points 24) and, in conclusion, 38) of this article are thrown out, refer to Article 44. It's a bill of law. So it's also proposed to delete and they should belong in future to some future traffic safety law on the roads. So, I think that's what Col. Krajinovic was already talking about when he was talking about the amendment to Article 44. It's a bill of law. Momir Markovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and our argument is quite clear. We believe that this member and these points are unnecessary, that they should be deleted, because this should include some future legislative proposal or project that will be in the area of road safety. So, the SRS with this amendment, as well as any previous amendments we've talked about, has the aim of correcting this law. Of course, the next amendment also speaks of this matter, i.e. this bill, in exactly the same way. So, I can say that, as far as this proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly was concerned, it finally had to submit a more precise and clearer legislative proposal. You've had enough time to come up with a national strategy when it comes to the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't do that. Of course, the priorities in building and maintaining the public roads of the Republic of Serbia are the need to develop our public roads, and they should be established by this national strategy, which is based on technological analyses with justified traffic technical solutions, all to increase the security of capacity and traffic flows. Finally, in our presentations on the amendments we have submitted to the National Assembly, so clearly, precisely to the public of Serbia and to you who have submitted such a legal solution, which we believe is not accurate and not good, we have made it clear that the Government should accept the amendments of the SRS. We have received an answer that you have not accepted any amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. That tells us all about you wanting to pass this bill quickly. The bill, which may tomorrow become the law of your majority in this assembly, will be at the expense of both the states of the Republic of Serbia and the damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I appeal to all the MPs in this assembly to support the amendments to the SRS that we have submitted to the National Assembly, for the reason that this poor legal solution is better, accurate and clear, when it comes to public roads in the Republic of Serbia. This is the objective of the SRS, and that is why we will stand up and we will have opportunities after the next parliamentary elections to correct all these projects and such laws that you have passed. When we rule the Republic of Serbia, we will rule in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-03-0.u21265	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 103 by Miroslav Markicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill, in particular, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all of you for your responsibility and efficiency, which means that, in accordance with the agreement we had at the beginning, we are done with today's work. The session won't be tomorrow. Because of the importance of the law, I determine Monday, for the continuation of the session, at 10.00 hours and then, if we were to be this efficient, we will be doing a search in detail: the draft law on the state audit institution, the proposal for a law on foreign trade, and if we were to be this efficient, probably also the draft law on tobacco. A large number of amendments accepted. Anyway, these are the points we're going to search on Monday. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, we have the ninth day of work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 81 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least one third of the MPs are not present, which is why, in accordance with Article 86(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session in one hour, so 11.12 hours. Thank you. [[After break - 11.12 hours.]] Since at 10:12 p.m., at the beginning of the working day, most of the MPs were not present, which is why, according to Article 86(2), I gave a break of one hour, I ask you to check, but I continue to make clear by official record that 84 MPs are present, how many MPs are present in the hall. The electronic system shows 80 MPs are present in the O.R. I find, on the basis of the electronic system, that a third of the MPs are not present and that there are no conditions for the start of the working day, which is why, in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I postpone the session for the next working day, that is, Tuesday, November 8, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you very much.
