ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is relatively simple. The limit given in Article 40. - up to 16 years old, I think it's too low and my suggestion is that it rises to 18 years, to the limit of adulthood. I'll read you article 1 of the 40th, which says that underage persons under 16 can't be associated with sexuality in an ad message. There's no reason for this line to not increase to 18 years, to years of adulthood. The fact is, unfortunately, that today the family, the children, are minors in the consumer society in which we live and how threatened by an aggressive marketing propaganda and in the SRS programme it is essential to advocate family care, minors and children, so it is quite understandable that even in this legal project, the SRS advocates to bring about normalness and borders through various legal projects. It also seems to me that black chronicles in the daily newspaper are full of cases of violence and that this is one of the attempts and ways to protect minors. I invite you to support my amendment in the voting day, because I find it quite reasonable and in the general social interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19342	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 55. Proposal for a law on advertising. The amendment requires that this article be deleted. Otherwise, in order to clarify, I would like to say to our citizens who are following the TV broadcast of this session that it is the fourth section of this law that regulates special advertising cases and which, in fact, prohibits advertising by comparing the consumer with the price of the product, by advertising the schedule, i.e. the apparent reduction of prices of goods and services, by promising gifts, by comparing the earlier price with the price in the advertising message, etc. My amendment actually comes down to the technical preparation of this part of the law, because the provisions defined in Article 55 have already been processed in Article 53 and, for comparison, I will read both articles to see that what is already contained in Article 55 is already contained in the earlier article of this Bill. Article 55 states that the price of the product of the tenderers in the advertising message cannot be compared to the proposed price of the producer or trader, if the proposed price is significantly higher than the market price. Article 53 states that an earlier price comparison and a valid (current) price is prohibited for the same product or service of the same bidder, if: 1) earlier price is fixed as fictitious, 2) if the earlier price is significantly higher than the market price, 3) the product or service was offered on the market for a negligible short period of time at an earlier price or was never offered at that price. So what is regulated in Article 55 is basically just one of the examples that we have in Article 53, point 2, so we consider it to be completely excess in this law. This is something that happens on a regular basis with every bill, that it's pretty vague and full of unnecessary things. That's just what he's talking about is that either he wants it to be like that or he doesn't have enough expert personnel to regulate this matter. Since the laws concern all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they need to be comprehensible, short, concise and clear and that every citizen who reads the law knows what he regulates and what his rights are in relation to obligations. This way, by overlapping one member to another, with the same meaning, we only get one archaic law, a little vague, which certainly does not go in favour of the Serbian citizens. This is just one example and in this same law we also have an example, I'm just going to say, let's say that the article 41 is already contained in the article. 42nd and 43rd that a member of 54th was already contained in Article 53, so that the concept of this law would not lose anything. I've already said this is just about technical law-making, so it's clearer, more understandable, so I urge the motion that the amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19344	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Bogoljub Pejcic submitted to the title above Articles 64 and 64 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Bogoljub Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19345	The reason for not accepting this amendment is that it is contrary to the Consumer Protection Act and to international conventions that have been joined by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That's right. It's true, both of them. But it's also true what I wrote in my explanation. My explanation is: "The large multinational tobacco companies, having secured their products as a world brand, affect certain national legislation to prohibit advertising of domestic tobacco products for competitive reasons, not for health protection. By banning advertising of tobacco and tobacco products, undeveloped industrial countries lose huge funds that are collected through taxes, as well as the loss of marketing organisations, as well as advertisers, which in the end reduces the number of employees in these organisations and in all the accompanying works of the tobacco industry." So, it's not on my mind to advocate advertising tobacco products. However, this is one of the hypocrisis of multinational companies that, having become rich and filled their highly developed countries' budgets, they no longer have an interest in cigarette advertising. They only came here a few years ago to ban cigarette advertising. Long before that, for decades, we had been bombed by our tobacco products, until these tobacco products became the world brand. Now they absolutely don't have any more advertising needs. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that it's terrible that these tobacco industries that have destroyed their products' health to millions of people, are suddenly found to be health guardians in other countries, but only for reasons, not because they want to protect them, but because, by chance, some national tobacco industry in poor countries doesn't point out its brand of new cigarettes. So, I had to explain my amendment and point out again that I do not want to, and probably not for consumers to advertise tobacco and tobacco products. I just want to point out that this is unfair compared to these highly-developed industrial countries, which have become rich at the expense of poor countries, where no one buys domestic cigarettes in poor countries now, but on the contrary, they are just buying that brand that they launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19346	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Zivkucin. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Bogoljub Pejcic submitted to the title above Articles 66 and 66 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Zivkucin. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19347	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, our market, just like television programs, are overcrowded with many products from various producers. However, the expansion of beer ads with different messages, some funny, funny, original or not, is something that is actually the largest part of the marketing program almost every television, starts with RTS, through others that have national frequencies, and also these local ones, in search of as much commercial engagement as possible, chasing and large companies or the possibility of earning something. The advertising of alcoholic beverages in all countries in the world is regulated in a way that should be appropriate to citizens and in general advertising of such a product. Later, when we talk about commercials involving minors, we'll pay attention again, and we'll connect to the advertising of these products. You have seen that there have been more interventions, of which only one amendment has been accepted in some cases, to Article 68. We wanted the captain, or the time of the commercials, such as "Lav Beer", "MB Beer", "Pils", and others, not to enter into what company is, which is bombically advertised with longer or shorter ads which, in the right sense, are small omnibuses or a whole event to eventually send out what kind of beer it is, with pompous statements or appearances of some esthetic or other celebrities. As for Mr. Jovan Daja's amendments, he is therefore directly related to a chapter that regulates advertising or abuse in advertising when it comes to the attack on minors. Since beer is something that our youth first starts when it eventually enters some destructive ways of behavior, to give you examples from the city I come from – in Kragujevac there are settlements where children from 13, 14 or 15 years old, (so they are minor faces) during the weekend in residential buildings, or in front of them with piles of bottles of liters and a half or two beers get drunk and thus enter into one of the most constructive ways of thinking, socializing that is certainly not socializing. We can't claim that these kids are going to sleep at 10:00 a.m. in a later period, or underage persons who are 17 years old and 10 or 11 months old, but there's a lot of these commercials, and you notice it every day. And last night, while the game lasted, in which we somehow got through, and our team, even for all the time of the sports events, and you'll see, while the European basketball championship is going to be so much the intensity of beer advertising, that it's really okay for this amendment submitted by Mr. Jovan Day to replace the captain, or the 18,00-hour limit by 22,00 hours -- of course, to those who advertise, that is, those companies that capture the terms and earlier, especially "Dnevnik" and ahead of the central "Dnevnik" of RTS and some other diary or central show on national frequencies, we believe that this is more appropriate. And that's why Mr. Daya has submitted that amendment, because it's an alcoholic drink, and we think that the limit should exist, i.e. that point 2 changes and that 18,00 hours is replaced by 22,00 hours. Consider our well-intentioned initiative and the proposal and accept it in the voting day, because the legislator did not want to do so during the debate on Mr. Jovan Daja's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19348	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Djordjevic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Snezana Stojanović-Plasic and Ivana Kovacevic submitted to the 79th amendment. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Trade and Tourism accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19349	We're coming up with an abuse of the trust of minors. So, a moment ago, when I was talking about an amendment that was about advertising adverts, or advertising beer and other alcoholic beverages, I said that our intention was to tie this chapter through the entire law to members, that is, the kind of ad dealing with possible abuses when it comes to minors. But there's an unnecessary member here, and it says, "No abuse of the trust of minors." We're strictly against it. This article in 84 says that advertising for minors cannot contain information that abuses the trust of a minor to other persons, especially parents, siblings, and other family members, teachers, teachers, and doctors. "Protecting the Authority of Family and School" is the title above article 83. All of this about the abuse of the confidence of minors, as a parliamentary group, we found in this way that the proposer defined it in Article 83. Because of this, counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic, as a completely redundant member of 84, suggests that the 84th amendment should be deleted because article 83 already says that the advertising message intended for minors cannot contain a notice that violates the reputation or authority of parents, brothers and sisters and other family members. You can see for yourself that almost everything contained in Article 84, which Mr Kragovic requests to be deleted, is contained in Article 83. We think it's not enough to just pass a law like this and thus protect a minor, or not abuse his trust. Much more society as a whole, and in all segments of our society we should be working on exactly that. Many irresponsible politicians even know that by sending some vague messages or messages that are not good or comparable to what we are as a people, they kind of abuse that trust. And not to mention colleagues who are closely involved in this, so they know what it can look like when, God forbid, this trust is abused by the closest relatives, when teachers or teachers in schools do it, etc. As a society, we need to continue through all legal regulations, but to be clear and precise, and above all through action, as politicians by appeal and by parents, schools and all those who have an impact on the development of our youth, to develop and cultivate positive tendencies and directions in which minor faces will grow in our country. In very difficult conditions, when misery and poverty are present on all sides, when the largest number of these social policy problems, or social behavior, arises precisely because they live below some level of normal life, below the threshold of the minimum existence, resulting in all negative phenomena and resulting in destructive behaviour in those children who are up to 18 years old. But it is now another problem that lies in the sphere, above all economics and social policy. And we Serbian radicals see, and we keep saying that when it comes to other bill proposals, that neither this government nor the state at all have a clear strategy when it comes to preserving these most valuable resources, because all that is natural wealth and what one country has is important, but the most significant are human lives and the most significant is that these young people, who are yet to stand up and live in this country, to school, to start families, are directed in the right way. I used this member to say a little bit more about the general position of our party and not just the party, but I think that's how every reasonable man in this country thinks. But let me once again explain to you what Mr. Kragovic's intention was, that the law would be summed up and clear, concise. It is to delete the article 84, for all of this is already contained in Article 83, which concerns the ban on the abuse of the trust of minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19350	Thank you, does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Alimpic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19351	National MP Marko Djurisic is not present, so I will briefly try to explain this amendment. So Article 87(1) says, "It is forbidden to advertise political organisations outside the election campaign." Article 2 says that during the pre-election campaign, political parties are given the principle of equal representation, without discrimination. That should always be true, not just during the campaign. The amendment says this article should be deleted. Some particular explanation might not be necessary. I prefer to think that there is a need for an explanation by the government and a promoter for why this member exists at all. Why would advertising of political organisations be prohibited, except in a short time period of time called the pre-election campaign? Do you think politics could give you lung cancer or liver cirrhosis? Why should we always restrict the right of parties to inform citizens of their views, their slogans, their political programs? Besides, how long's the election campaign going on? All those who are seriously involved in politics know that immediately after the end of one election, serious political parties are starting a campaign for the next election. It is perfectly normal for parties to want to advertise always, to want to inform citizens about their policies, their views. A campaign run by parties doesn't always have to be a pre-election campaign. So a political organization can run a campaign to pass a certain law against a proposed law against a minister. Then why would we have an advertising restriction? Why couldn't political parties, if they had money that came to those funds in line with the adopted Law on the financing of political parties, pay the billboard, pay the ad, and get to know the citizens with their attitude? Why should we, MPs, vote in favour of such a member of the law and acknowledge ourselves that there is something wrong with advertising political parties? There's nothing wrong with that. I don't think there's any reason, nor have I heard any meaningful explanation. If this is directed against one particular party, it's only bad. What if a party is new, if it did not exist when the elections were past, if a political party is being formed today? Shouldn't she be advocating the citizens her existence, but should wait to announce the start of a political campaign, when in the general crowd of advertising, no one will even notice her. I think this is in some way limiting free political action. Why should we limit the political freedoms that we have hardly come to in the last 15 years? Why should we set ourselves up with such limitations? There's no reason for such a restriction. There's another problem. Since we are all, at least the MPs involved in politics, aware that political parties have the need to communicate with citizens and to tell them their views and outside of the pre-election campaign, then we know that political parties will find ways to advertise, although official advertising is forbidden. Here we are now, practically, forcing political parties and the media to make some secret arrangements, in a way introducing corruption into the media. Of course, then parties will advertise formally through the news, through visiting politicians, through something that is not an ad. This will, in a certain way, be compensated and paid to journalists, will not be recorded in the cost of political parties. So the transparency of political work is disabled in this way. I'm just asking you, Minister, what is this member for? Our proposal is that in the voting day we adopt this amendment and that article 87 is not in the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19352	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the need for Minister Dimitrijevic and his assistant, Mr. Sretkovic, to put such a member in the bill. They have some failed political party, there are three left, four left. Verko Stevanovic took something from them, in the meantime, more and more declines. They are with that SPO and their unaccountable president, who is unfortunately the foreign minister. But to the serious political parties and parties representing a million-dollar electoral body, such as the SRS, or other political parties who claim to come to a larger number, if you intend to fight to break the censorship, give it up, because the SPO is a long time ago on our political scene. It's just amazing that something like this is proposed to us. This is the largest possible, not only discrimination against political parties, but also the violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Who is this and where do you get the right to ban the possibility through article 87, as if politicians and political parties are the worst thing that exists all over the world, to advertise? "MB beer" can, "Lav" beer can, grills are made, walks from one place to the other, and can't have political parties that have a million-dollar electoral body, like the SRS. That's really amazing. You know, all kinds of bans we Serbian radicals have faced since the founding of the party, the inability to appear. And now that the president of our party is fighting brilliantly in The Hague and reminds us of all these events and the role of this unfortunate Vuk Draskovic and everyone else on the political scene of Serbia, it's good to remember a little bit, and you don't have a very short mind (although it is, but not so much) without knowing how things were happening and how we've been going through a lot of different ways. That won't stop us from even reducing our ratings. On the contrary, our ratings will be getting bigger and bigger. You say, "It is forbidden to advertise political organisations outside the election campaign," and outside the election campaign can be advertised by Soros, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko and other villains. What kind of way is that? Not a political party that has the largest number of MPs or any other, second or third in power in this House, the one that has the smallest parliamentary group, because again, I'm telling you, I'm minimising you, you don't even have enough for the parliamentary group, you don't have enough for the van, that SPO. What do I care about you, you failed, you had the chance, you acted on the political scene of Serbia, you existed for so many years, you failed completely. The sad thing is that the unfortunate Wolf Draskovic, on my bench, is this legendary book in the edition of SRS, Professor Seselj: "The Narcomania of the Wolf Manitoga". I happen to have something to look at in that book and it reminds me of this whole period of your unfortunate operation. You know, it's a success or failure. You faced the risk of fighting on a political scene, failed, let us fight successfully and do our job. Why do you have the right to forbid us to advertise? You know, we've never spent faceless money, nor have we, unlike all of you, sponsors from abroad with millions of dollars. For ten years some of you have funded, invested in Danica and Vuk Draskovic, so now they regret giving them these dollars in hundreds of thousands of dollars. We have tried with our modest means to reach every voter and to speak as is appropriate to the situation in which our people live, so that it is not expensive, that we do not throw ourselves away, etc. Now, since this article is in the right sense both unconstitutional and discriminatory, it is amazing that MPs, from any political party, accept in the day of voting that such a member of 87 exists. That's where the DSS people sit, who are the backbone of this government. I don't see how they'll accept that such a member of the 87th law exists and that it forbids parties to advertise outside election campaigns. We'd like to come by, say he's an indecipherable foreign minister and he's signed a harmful contract with the NATO Pact. You forbid us to come to the phone about it? What kind of way is that? It's amazing you came up with that idea at all. But I'm saying that it's probably the basic cause that you don't have a party anymore, or you have a party -- that failed SPO. We who survive and very successfully propose to be power, which we will certainly be after the next election, should be advertised and the people are eager to come forward and send them a smart message like we've always done before.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19354	The word has Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have here in my hand the Radio Diffusion Act, the Official Messenger, August 31st, 2005. Article 106 says advertising of political organisations outside the election campaign is forbidden. Do I have to do it again? Article 113 contains criminal provisions. One section provides for even the appropriate punishment under point 19. The fine will be between 50m and 200,000m dinars for a violation of a legal person who publishes political ads outside the election campaign. There are, of course, other laws, if I am not mistaken – the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, which contains the same prohibition. Therefore, we could not pass a law that is contrary to the law that this Parliament has already passed, but if you read our law carefully, you will see that we have done something in the interest of political parties, which I do not want to say here. I'll tell you that after that. Indeed, this addition of this member to the Law on Public Advertising has nothing to do with the Serbian Renewal Movement, or with the president of the Serbian Renewal Movement. It's really extremely amazing to connect these two things.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19356	Replica, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19357	It's really inappropriate, Mr. Minister, when you're already using that terminology to advertise here as a member of a failed party. You're a member of the government, and here you should only speak for the government. By the time you pulled that story about the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the disaster of the law. I must remind you that the SRS voted against that law, that we have had many amendments, that we have a very bad Law on selecting MPs, which I hope will not wait for the next elections, so if the next, or apparently extraordinary parliamentary elections, are being held by at least half of us in the National Assembly. And you, as a former minister and member of a failed party, will be able to pass by the Assembly, you will be able to announce yourself to us, to come to us, there is no problem, but as far as your entry into this institution is concerned, as the most legislative body, in such a function or at least similar, a parliamentary place you can't even dream of, you won't be able to come. You just keep trying to follow those bad laws and take restrictive measures when it comes to advertising political parties, but that's not a good way to do it. If you hadn't acted like this and had a clear policy, you'd have been better off as a party, and this is how you failed, what I can do for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19358	The word has Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19359	Dear People's MPs, I didn't say I was a member of the Serbian Renewal Movement. I just said that it is inappropriate in this context to connect the president of the SPO and the SPO with this member, because I wanted to show you that it was our legal obligation to install in the Public Advertising Act a member who would be in accordance with the already applicable law that this Parliament has passed. The other thing is, why would it be a problem for me to advertise here and as a representative of the appropriate political party, because I certainly didn't fall from Mars and I didn't come here without being a representative of a particular political party? So your right to attack me as a representative of this political party is legitimate, and my right to defend myself as a representative of that political party is not legitimate. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19360	The word is from Ambassador Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, firstly resents the chairman for not warning the predecessor who spoke of the Serbian Renewal Movement. Today, four laws are on the agenda of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, whose minister from the Serbian Renewal Movement, and we are extremely proud of the four laws the ministry has proposed. I always wonder who's talking about Vuk Draskovic, who's got the courage and the strength to talk about Vuk Draskovic and I think that's what the Serbian Radical Party says and that you were talking about the van, how small we are and how we are, how you're better than us. I come to tell you that sentence your president has spoken in The Hague, you may, gentlemen, radically with the Serbian Renewal Movement, do what your president has said by clearly defending Serbia in The Hague. You can make us gentlemen do what your president said!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19362	The People's MP Petar Jojic, on the amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can determine not only what Miss Natasa Jovanovic said - the van party, but it was a time when it was full of vans. However, the party has turned into a pic-ap. So, it's a little smaller than the party's van. Secondly, I'm sorry that my colleague used a quote from the president of the SRS in The Hague here, we don't know what it is. He said a lot of things, not just to Serbian citizens who looked and had the opportunity to hear, learn many things they didn't know. The messages sent by the president of the SRS to the Serbian people are extremely important for Serbia's defence, its integrity and sovereignty. At the same time, he drew the world's public attention to all the problems, hardships and evils Serbia has encountered for the last decade. Therefore, the lady spoke, but unfortunately what she was saying is inappropriate. This means that it can be said quite the opposite and, therefore, as it is said in criminal law, it was an unfavourable attempt. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 87, paragraph 1 is proposed to prohibit advertising of political organisations outside the election campaign. You see how I see this provision. I see it so that the political parties that are in power will use media, electronic means and printed media as much as possible for their propaganda, and the opposition parties will not be in a position because they will not be able to provide information and messages to the citizens to pass it on because they will be blocked. This has nothing to do with the election of MPs. This is about banning an election campaign to advertise outside the political party's pre-election campaign. Why? Why it would now be forbidden for one political party to present its programme, to send messages to Serbian citizens, to draw attention, to inform them about how the government is doing, how the current administration is doing. And secondly, what would they suggest is that in the next elections or the sooner they discuss the elections, we come to a new stable government in Serbia. This is one restriction that is absolutely not a constitutional category. Gentlemen, most of you who adopt many laws, believe me, look at the practice, which are all the laws you boast about having passed them, you have come to life. What of these laws apply? The law is passed so that after a month, two days the law will be amended and amended. Why? When a law is passed, it should be valid, that it is applicable, it should protect the essence of law, the essence of justice. Eighty or 100 laws that you've passed, believe me, in practice I've had the chance to see that it's rarely a provision, except for the sanctions you impose on the taxpayers, absolutely applicable. Don't brag about how good your laws are, don't think this provision will come to life. But I must remind you and draw attention to the fact that the SRS will put a number of your laws out of force soon, because I am telling you that there are extraordinary parliamentary elections that must prevent inflation, and besides, inflation of these laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19364	One moment, Mr. Crassy. Marko Djurisic, MP of the people, has the advantage, so you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19365	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, let's try to get back to the essence of this amendment. You were saying that it was practically a prescribed provision from the Radio-Difusion Act and that it was put into this law. I will read the first position of this article 87: "It is forbidden to advertise political organisations outside the election campaign". You're referring to the Radio Diffusion Act, which is probably talking about advertising in electronic media. Perhaps it was the essence of why you put this article and what you wanted to point to, however, as it stands in this article, and if we look at what advertising is in Article 2 of this Act, it says – "an announcement is an announcement through an advertising device recommended by the advertiser, its activity, product, service or other recommendation", and then it says "an advertising agent is a flyer, prospectus, packaging of products, posters, photos, pano, transparent, billboard" and various other things. You, as I understand it, forbid political parties to make flyers, make posters, pay for ads in newspapers. I believe that's what all the political parties in their work outside of election campaigns have been doing, and they're doing it today. There's a campaign going on between a minister and his party, and when you go after Serbia, you can see posters everywhere. Does this mean that the minister and his party will be hit by this law if this provision remains like this? If you wanted to say that advertising can't be done via electronic means, then you had to put it on, and if it already exists in the second law, then I don't see why it's put back into this law. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment, which I do not like that very text of the amendment, to delete a member of that and that law, but in no other way could I understand this member and his place in this law. I ask my fellow MPs, given that various parties are here, some will continue to live after an emergency election, and some probably will not accept this amendment, so that we can work freely in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19366	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19367	My predecessor is really right. Article 87 and Article 2(1) are somewhat in one conflict. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that you've been unnecessarily engaged in this law to edit something, even in the wrong way. It is that you only talk about advertising here, but I must remind you that some political parties or political party owners and some other companies have their own media, so they advertise 24 hours a day. What is all advertising you wrote in Article 2. Maltene every message, every letter, every picture and conveyed a competitive action affecting the recipient's information that what he does is someone good, nice, nice, to pet him on bread. Then we have an irregular position, but you hit one topic that I'm sure the government is avoiding. You see, the Law on Radio-Difusion and the Law on Public Information and what you are trying to do with this law is only in order not to implement the provision of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, on the selection of the Supervisory Board. It is for the Supervisory Board to control the media and how voters, candidates, are represented and how they represent their programmes from the time of the election to the end of the election. For the past three years, we have had several types of presidential elections, including for MPs, where this assembly did not want to form a supervisory board, and this building did not want to allow the previously formed Supervisory Board in 2000, which was still in office, to work. Then we had an irregular pre-election campaign on that media side, that even on the day of the election some advertised through the media, so when you passed the Law on Broadcasting Council, then they started to advertise, something like – that's some kind of injury, etc., which is the legal consequence of this advertising of the Broadcasting Agency Council, it's gone. That's why I invite you to the authorities to read our proposal for a bill on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, which we have delivered to you, and special provisions on the Supervisory Board. I agree that this may be more about this next member, not this 87, but 88. How can you forbid a political party to advertise? You've forbidden that the party can't even make its own newspaper, that they hand it over to a citizen, or a flyer, can't put her commercial on a billboard, can't broadcast her commercials on TV, can't do anything. When it's not a pre-election campaign, if the party wants to make a 30-second video or their movie, an hour-long report, why would that worry the state? What would be irregular about that? A team before all of this has to be paid by a party that is advertised – that party that, when elections are not yet called, wants to broadcast its videos. What's the problem? That's much more correct than what BK or B92 does. You're telling me that the contribution from the People's Office to B92 is not part of the promotion of one party. It is in the function of promoting one party. Report, last night some Karic was there in Surcin, isn't that a party promotion? It's a function of informing the public about what activities are, and it's of great importance to the state, the one who caressssssing pigs. So don't, please, come on now you tell me, by this concept of yours, how is some extraparliamentary party going to get to the public? Take the bills, you'll be extraparliamentary soon. I'm not defending anyone, but for everything, there must be regular conditions. Isn't that an ad when someone opens a water line? Let me remind you, sometimes all of you in power have said -- if the party's president is elected President of the Republic, he can't be party president. Now think about how you apply your democratic standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19368	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19369	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, freely speaking, to one of the key members of this law. The Democratic Party has submitted an amendment that considers this member to be absolutely restrictive, that the anti-constitutional category, Mr. Minister, is limiting political freedom. I remind you once again, that, in an explanation of why you do not accept our amendment, you have mentioned Article 139. The law on broadcasting, if I'm not mistaken, does not stand in this case. My colleague Djurisic read to you Article 2 where you have explained the individual terms mentioned in the bill, and you say, "Advertising is a notice through advertising, which is recommended by the advertiser, activity, product, service, other recommendation etc." Mr. Minister, just to remind you, every serious political group on the campaign's lead only when elections are being discussed. For every serious political party, and the DS is, and here I see another serious political party, diametrically further from the DS, the opposite, but there are indeed two serious parties. We run a campaign, not from the moment the elections are discussed, but also from the period between the elections, which is four years old, and may be before, and we are confident that it will be before. Why do you restrict the right of any party to, for example, the problem that exists in the country draws attention to the public. Why do you restrict the right to DS that if you go into the campaign, when you have introduced a subscription to the citizens, wants to address and say – this authority is bad, catastrophic, introduces a subscription, introduces a fee to the number, returns Milosevic's government models. Why do you want to limit it to us? Why do you want to restrict the right of any party to the problem that exists in the state and society, which has produced power, wants to particularly apostrophe. I find it really incomprehensible to me that you're giving here, an unmistakable explanation, referring to article 139. Radio-diffusion law. It doesn't stand and can't be accepted. Indeed, once again, I would like to see you apply this law, how you will apply the provisions of article 87, and after that, the criminal provisions that follow. If you wanted to impose sanctions for someone who whistles and screams the most, for example, Your finance minister on BK TV, you can apply it through the already existing Radio Diffusion Act. But you cannot therefore punish serious political parties in Serbia who want to work actively and communicate with citizens in a regulated and allowed manner. You have no right to restrict political freedoms to serious political parties, which can communicate with citizens through flyers through advertising through means of information. It's a right guaranteed by the Constitution and now you want to challenge it here. I'd like to see you punish Velya Ilic. Here, every day I go through the old Kragujevac-Belgrade via Topola and Velja says, "We are building a new Serbia". I'd love to see you punish him, and I'd like to see you punish Mladjan Dinkic. Yes, we'll punish him very soon. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] But it is obvious that the minister has no intention of seriously solving this problem, but simply believes that what he predicted for this member is something that is the fluid of the government he represents and thinks it is modern, modern, European. No, you can't give yourself the right, and I don't want to talk about how serious or unserious, big or small they are, but I just want to remind you that every time you make any law, you make sure that one day you're in opposition. So how are you going to treat the member you predicted in this law? Once again I say, this member of the law is anti-constitutional. Secondly, this provision is completely inapplicable, it is impossible and I would like to see you start punishing Serbia. And from here, I'm telling you, on behalf of the DS, we're going to do our job the way we've done it before. I'd like to see Mladjan Dinkic come and make an account for me. It's just, I doubt they'll get after that, and it's a very serious, pedal that they really deserve, and along with that pedal, you'll be you, and once and for all, we'll put order in this country. I think, Mr. Minister, it's time for you to take seriously the grudges that exist on this bill. This provision, this member does not stand, does not comply with the Constitution. Serious people would come to their senses and understand our argument. Obviously, you either don't want to understand it or you don't want to understand it, but let it serve you the honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19370	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19371	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the seventh chapter of the law to define sponsorship, a sponsored face, who can and cannot be a sponsor, and whether in a mutual contract they can limit themselves. Our amendment provided for us to make an addition, to be an attitude 2 in which a proposal would be given in a certain way to domestic sponsors so that the sponsored persons could be more easily regulated in a certain way and regulated by law to reach the domestic sponsor. Something like a commercial. Buy your homework. To enable, seeing the real danger in some of our segments of life, in the past, and in the functioning of the state, if we allow a purely market-based principle to regulate the relationship between a sponsored person and a sponsor, then we would even have political dangers from all of this. The argument that the government has given us back is not to accept our amendment because the principle of equality is being introduced, is not particularly drinking and would be more possible and logical if it were said – that will regulate the market. I'm sure the sponsored face will be looking for someone to give him more. That's the other side of the danger we'd like to avoid with this amendment. Let's just take two aspects of this problem. One is drug advertising, and the other is the position of NGOs, when they appear as sponsors. If this is about sponsoring drugs, which is regulated by Article 99, we can see that they cannot be sponsored and advertised medicines that are not written on a prescription. We understand that. That's the point. It's on the recipe, and it's what's not particularly expensive, which is what we already have and what our factories make. What is more efficient, more quality, is that it is participated and paid at a different amount than the finished price of the drug. We can imagine what powerful pharmaceutical houses would do, if they were right, because it's not prescription drugs, that they go into advertising in different ways, and the procedure that regulated the way the drug was advertised in other places, and that would adapt to the law. The other side of the story is, when it comes to the possibility that the NGO, where the tax-listing of those who cannot be involved in sponsorship, is not mentioned by NGOs, of course, according to Article. 87th and 88th, it seems they can be advertised, because they are not excluded from previously commented members, there can be hidden not only the danger of favouring correspondence on the side that they can take under their own and sponsor and create a TV or radio programme as it stands in art. 95th and 98th. In this way, if we were to introduce it, we would have a chance to integrate home and home territory into the possibility of having a certain advantage in sponsoring activities. It is understandable that there are certain restrictive circumstances that regulate the relationship of the sponsor and the sponsored person, in the sense that it cannot, for example, be a sponsor to intervene in terms of length of duration, or even the way in which the programme is created. The question is how drunk it is, since whoever pays, he wants something to be done and shown through the commercial. It won't be more important to hit those interested sponsors on the side, especially those who would like to create parts of television or programs in general, which is also in Article 95. We see here a real possibility that someone on the side might turn on, because we have televisions that work completely by being funded by someone on the side. So, completely, not part of the program. Whether, say, limiting sponsorship, foreign income, domestic television, they can't, in proportion to the minutes they have, by advertising, earning revenue, counting on the fact that only from sponsorship will they live, except commercial television. So we think an amendment like this would make sense. It would not, in a certain way, favour a specific one, because it does not say any relationship, but should have an advantage, which would always be easy for the managing body, to remove the institution, if a lower bid is made. What if they make the same offers? Why don't the locals have an advantage, in a contract concluded between a sponsored person and a sponsor. Because we don't know what the same money can get through, what other influence? How can some other institution, an NGO, create parts of a television programme with seemingly non-political but very serious messages, which can create a political situation in Serbia. So it could have been done in this way, although the law should have defined the role of NGOs much more precisely, their position, their importance, etc., not only the domestic political scene to shape it this way and to place it very rigidly and rigidly. So this part of the intervention, since it applies to many members who are connected within this chapter, would also benefit from this serious pharmaceutical industry that is moving slowly into the pharma-medical mafia and, of course, this part of the NGO sector, so I think you should seriously consider accepting this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19372	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to make it more clear to the public what this is about, we wanted to force the sponsorship given by domestic producers, and we got from the Government a response that says it is discrimination, the freedom of contract is limited, i.e. the establishment of a business relationship. We received such a response from a minister who has a campaign called "let's buy his own home", with the campaign being funded by the Croats. I can't believe you can be so syphocants, not camelons, that you change so much color and become absolutely white. Minister, you belong to a political party who would war if someone suggested it from article 87 at the time she was in opposition. You belong to a political party who acted as you wish to approve the law, which called the television "The Bastille" and because of it was able to make people die and that Bastille was won. For sponsorship, you say that it is subject to advertising provisions, if this law is not otherwise arranged. Since it is not otherwise arranged, then political parties cannot receive sponsorship through contracts and accounts because they are forbidden to, in a period where there is no choice, and this could be three years and 11 months, propagating their political activity. That's what you stand for, Mr. Minister, who's on the chair, where his butt is spreading, only a year and a half ago. I can't believe you thought of something like that and that it would support other political parties from the ruling coalition. Do you think it's God's day and they'll be in power most of the time? That Serbian citizens can watch for three years and 11 months what ministers do, under the government's cover of activity, what the county's chiefs, the National Office, the president of Serbia, are doing without being able to see what political parties are doing. You prohibit political parties from aphirming through the affirmation of their actions. So, when the SRS donated 100 computers to children in Kosovo and Metohija, it would be forbidden for us, by your law, to publish. When we gave houses in many parts of Serbia, we would be forbidden to publish. During that time, you will publish everything the government does and you will not count it by marketing, by advertising your political party, but by the activities of the Government and the Ministers. Since it occurs to you that such discriminatory laws, which are completely stifled by the rights and freedoms of citizens, you propose to this assembly. Don't tell us now that it's comparatively out there. I can tell you right now, almost all over Europe, it doesn't matter who shows up on TV. This is important in Serbia, as was important while you were in opposition, so it is important now that we are in opposition. It is simple that in Serbia, for many years, everything will depend on who appears on television and how it presents its political activities on television. So please, Mr. Minister, sit down and think about it, read the law proposed by the experts, because you haven't read this, Mr. Minister. I know you as a reasonable man and at a time when your party was rigid, you were the most reasonable man in this party. This wouldn't have occurred to you. You haven't even read it, so I don't want to offend you, you're educated, you're intelligent, if you'd read it, you'd understand the trap that's been pushed on you. No, you didn't read this. Maybe one of these younger associates, who looks like the ones that Europe's been schooling, maybe they're the ones who pushed you to do it. But to write that all political parties are fully equal in advertising conditions, to justify, in that way, if one day in a round table campaign on state television, 130 representatives of 130 political parties appear, or 300. The editor-in-chief can say - I'm calling 30 parties today. It's gonna be the SPO, you're still in power, but there's no SRS, DS, there's no more to come out of the ruling coalition. He met the provision of Article 87(2) "In the course of a pre-election campaign with registered political parties, coalitions and candidates, the principle of equal representation without discrimination is allowed". I've seen that on national television before. They invite us to a round table, 15 participants, 14 lunatics and a representative of the SRS. Look, he says they're all the same, these politicians are all the same. But that's why you took arms. That's why you burned Belgrade. In this burned-down Belgrade, you are now forcing laws that will call for the behavior you fought for. Take your mind off it, Mr. Minister. I know that air, water, coffee in the government can change a little personality structure. But ask these from the Democratic Party, when the government resigns, when you walk out the door, when you get hit by a little opposition, you realize that in many things you've done wrong, and there's nothing to look for in the next election, because they're going to call you for what you've done wrong. Imagine – sweet and water in the campaign, we go out and say: what do you from the SPO want, you have proposed a law that completely discriminates against the opposition? Now whine about being in opposition. It is possible that you are predicting this member because you know that you will not be a parliamentary party either, so you need some kind of equality. I'm telling you, a country where all registered political parties are equal to those who fought for votes in Serbia, it's not a democratic state, it's a mask, it's a vision of democracy. It's just a form in which there's no substance. You've got to think about this law, I don't care how branding can be advertised. Let the entrepreneurs, privates, chambers, televisions deal with you. This is where you hit political parties under the advertising company. You know that in the struggle with the opposition, no dictatorial and discriminatory authority has won, and neither will you, I guarantee it. We'll gather after the next election, and I can now predict your results and make a mistake by one or two percent. When we address you and the Democratic Party, it comes to you by 80% of the citizens who will go to the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19374	The word has a minister, Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19375	As for the benefits of the domestic sponsor, etc., I must say that I have repeated countless times, when we started the campaign "let's buy our own home", we said that it would not contain any legal restrictions that would be at the expense of foreign companies. That's where I stayed consistent. So, in no law we propose we will not go after legally favouring domestic producers, which would probably be as much the next day as the impact of the Competition Protection Act, and it would probably be the shock of various pressures from the European Union and other countries, which have their own companies that are competitors here and there is really no dilemma. Our idea was to influence the awareness of manufacturers and consumers. I think we've managed to move something into people's heads. But this is one explicit attitude to enter, that wasn't possible. As far as this member is concerned about advertising political parties, I have to say one thing that is of a very principled nature, which we may like or not, but it is what it is. In that part that was related to those members 15, 16, 17, 18, etc., we accepted more or less a model that is probably a bit more radical for our terms than we are at this point ready to accept. But almost every country in Europe works that way. Is that right now too much, that's a big question. This Directive on cross-border television is a binding rule for all European Union countries. It is a similar matter with this, more or less, that is how most European countries behave. The idea of both members was that we should protect citizens from the excessive harassment that can be made by the media, which can also be by political organisations. I'm saying we didn't think of it, like in this case those who wrote the law, to favor some small political parties over the larger ones. I end this, if you are also reading the Law on selecting Members of the People and the Law on Radio-Difusion, the solution we have proposed is from the point of view of advertising more comprehensively, because the concept of advertising is broader than the concept of advertising, but it is consistent, means in agreement with all other solutions that already contain other rules. It's simple, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19376	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19377	I'm glad the minister made his point. Just because of the note, I want to check that I have heard – the ban on advertising and favouring the activities of political parties has been introduced to protect citizens from the abuse they are exposed to by political parties. That's what Milosevic was supposed to tell you in 1990. He seems to have been modern 15 years ago and could have introduced Serbia into Europe already this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19378	There's a word for Minister Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19379	There is no doubt that citizens may be victims of excessive harassment, and even excessive harassment of political parties, but no one has harassed these citizens more despondent Milosevic, there is no dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19380	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, you are reporting by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19381	I'm glad the minister mentioned the abuse of political parties. Just one correction – Mr Nikolic seems to me, in one part he was a bit inaccurate and I would have added it. Parties making up the ruling coalition in Serbia are harassing citizens. In that part, I agree with the minister. So there is no greater harassment than the ruling group currently does in Serbia, and I think we share an opinion there. As for the finding that Milosevic has harassed citizens, I remind Mr. Minister, you would not be where you are if the representatives of the same party did not support you and provide minority support. Therefore, Kostunica equals Milosevic, in translation it is all the same as the Democratic Party, there is no difference. It's time to take the bills slowly. As for advertising, Mr. Minister, you found the wrong provisions to defend Article 87, which you mentioned. The right of political organisations is guaranteed by the constitution that even outside the campaign they can carry out their activities uninterruptedly. They are not only serious political organisations, I say and potential – serious political organisations, aimed only at their activities during the election campaign. They work in a time of four years, when regular or shorter periods are conducted in case of early elections. That's what serious parties do. With this bill, specifically this article, you limit the right of political parties in Serbia to do their job in a valid way, by not giving them the right to have certain issues that affect their lives, as I have cited the tax on numbers, and we especially want to draw attention to the public to animate them, organise them – it is the right of political parties and I don't see why you would limit it. Therefore, there is no greater political harassment in Serbia right now than the ruling group does.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19382	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Milica Vojic-Markovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19383	According to the current Rules of Procedure, the speaker must speak the truth. The gentleman who spoke before me, who is known to the general public for particularly speaking the truth in the past, waving cards from Bodrum, is called to be a serious party. I don't know which serious party allows itself to vote from Bodrum for very important laws and ask us to believe that. Furthermore, the gentleman earlier, when he showed up last time, said that this government had passed a bill paying for the subscription. I think the gentleman is mistaken. But since he likes to speak differently, I'll remind him, his government brought it. Also last time, he said that all the leverages of Mr Milosevic's government are being returned to this government. Sir, this government has entered Europe. This government is taking great steps towards Europe. Sir, this government is doing everything you'd really like to say yours did.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19384	The word has the minister of trade and tourism, Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19385	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Tomislav Nikolic has declared me a reasonable man, only a few more arguments in favour of this debate. Alexander Lazarevic, I really don't know which parliamentary group he belongs to right now, gave the amendment to Article 109, in which he asked for this advertising to be sanctioned. That's what I didn't want to say for a second. Yes, there was this member, but there was no sanction. Then Ambassador Lazarevic Alexander asked to be sanctioned in Article 109. I have cited this as an example that there are conflicting views of MPs on this matter. I'll say the following: what we've done, it's just to consistently implement one principle that already exists in other laws and to install it into this law, which in many cases has proved to be a relatively good practice. Since the proposal has already been established, I cannot intervene. May it remain with the MPs, whether they belong to the ruling parties or to the opposition parties, to re-evaluate this amendment at the time of the vote and to accept it eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19386	According to the Rules of Procedure, Rajko Baralic, then MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19387	I checked in with the Rules of Procedure. The claim that no one was harassing Serbian citizens as Slobodan Milosevic is the same as the claims that three million Serbian citizens were masochists. Three million people in Serbia voted for Slobodan Milosevic at various stages or for a party whose president is Slobodan Milosevic. When he left power, Slobodan Milosevic received about 1.5 million votes. In Serbia today, it doesn't go to the polls that much. Therefore, legitimacy and political essence are shown in the elections. Principle: one man-one voice, irreplaceable principle. No one's voices are counted because they were for these or those, these are legitimate, these are not. Because, for God's sake, the one they voted for was harassing citizens. As far as these other speculations are concerned, who is now in the coalition, who it supports, I remind you that the SPO has been in power in Belgrade, among other things, thanks to the SPS. Therefore, anything legitimate political parties agree on is legitimate. It can't be under the conditions of something distasteful, and it's the same in other conditions that you look at with approval. I expect everyone to behave fairly, to behave properly. Slobodan Milosevic is the party's president who supports the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19388	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19389	I reported to the Rules of Procedure, because the chairman discriminates against me as an MP, since I called in half an hour ago for a word, for a replica, and to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and when you hear what he's looking at, then you will understand that I am protecting national interests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am not pleased with your response, which you are preparing, and I ask that in the voting day, the Parliament be declared responsible for the injury committed by the chairman Vojislav Mihailovic, who deliberately does not give me the floor, because he assumes that I will say something he does not like. That's why I'm in the congregation, saying exactly what he doesn't like and being as true as possible. What is the look at the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here someone convinces us, falsely, the minister and others, say, as far as Article 87 is concerned, that it is a ban. But I'm not going to tell you that there's another prank, and it's contained in criminal provisions, where there's no sanction for banning. What is this ban without sanctions? Furthermore, this article and this initiative are being trampled by the Law on Political Parties, which is not good, the Law on Radio-Difusion, which is not good, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Law on Public Information, not to mention the Constitution. The minister still comes out here and says, "You know what, we're running a buy ours," but we can't put it in the law, because we'd all scream. Then you say to those abroad -- you know what, we write one thing in the law, and the government does the other. Here's another piece of evidence, that's Article 87. So the government puts a ban into the law. According to this, as you've written, no one is allowed out on the street to share a specialist, a newspaper, a flyer, a badge, a badge. Why? It's not an election campaign. Why didn't you expect him to arrest the police immediately? You're harassing us here with some suggestions, but they can't survive at all. How do you harass us here with something that's contrary to the Constitution, to the law, to sound logic? I can't figure that out. The chairman's changing, they haven't read the bill, they don't care, they think there's traffic here – now you'll be two minutes, now you'll be three minutes. You can't do that in the National Assembly. From this place we hear a clear message – the government is leading the action "let's buy our own", advertised in all possible ways, and then said: we can't put it into the law. Now I remind the minister, why you changed the Public Procurement Act, when you said our businesses have the advantage, you even listed some percentages, I don't know if 20-25% can be more expensive than competition from abroad. Has anyone from abroad come to shoot you? He didn't come. Now the principle of the Public Procurement Act cannot be in other laws. Now the minister is angry at the MP who submitted such an amendment, and he said - well, if the minister pushes this like this, we all voted here, why isn't it going in other areas? (President: Time.) So, I'm not happy with your answer, I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19390	Mr. Krasic, you haven't even heard my answer, and you're not satisfied already. That says I can assume you're joking, but if I'm wrong, then in the voting day we'll make a statement about what you said at first. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go. You got another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19391	I've got that minute and I'll use it wisely, Mr. Mikhailovich, as I've used every second of it. In this minute, I must tell Mr. Minister, since he has received confirmation from Mr. Nikolic that he is a reasonable man, and be assured that this is your most quality certificate, when we talk about Parliament and the fact that someone can assess whether you are such or such a politician. When there was a debate about a member of the 87th and the beating of your colleague, and you later distanced yourself and said, although next to you is the vice president of the SPO, no matter what he is today, that I do not honor you that you cannot go out as a representative of a political party, yet you are the minister here, therefore, an official of the Government. When I speak politically, or any representative of any party on the law, so I express a political qualification, then I can't be resented, because I'm a national MP, and yet you're a minister, so you're a government official. If you've already solved, Mr. Dimitrievich, in principle, or according to a reasonable man's system, to distance yourself from that party, you'd better do it. I must tell you, although you probably know it, but to hear other MPs and the public, I am talking about Article 89 and sponsorship, that the chairman of the Jablani County District Committee, a certain Cvetkovic, who is also the chief of market inspection in Jablani County, has been arrested or signed by him for signing a favourable sponsorship contract, but I would rather say for bribery and corruption. So, in time, distance yourself, but you will have to bear responsibility as a minister, because you appointed such a man to be the head of the Jablani County, who is also the chairman of the district committee of the party, which, as you say, you do not belong to, or you are building on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19392	The word is made by the MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19393	Mr. Mihailovic, at the moment you were out of the O.R., while your vice president, Mr. Mihailovic, was chaired at the meeting, there was an injury to Article 88(2), which he said – the president of the National Assembly gives the necessary notice on the work at the session and other issues. It is, in fact, that Minister Dimitrijevic said he was unable, although he was convinced of the correctness of our views on the motion to amend Article 87, i.e. to delete Article 87, to intervene and to leave it to the MPs in the day to vote. The chairman had to inform him to give an explanation to a minister who obviously did not know the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister may reach the conclusion of the debate to declare the amendment to the proposed member of the law and can accept it, but it is obvious that there is no goodwill and obviously does not want what we have presented in favour of the argument to delete Article 87 and that there is no courage to make a move on its own, but is asking for further consultations from higher posts and there is clearly no freedom to work. It shows how this government works. Mr. Minister, you have the right to accept the amendment to Article 87. By the end of the debate on amendments, you will, at least in part, fix this bill that is very bad. But there's a chance to correct a bad provision that can have very harmful consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19394	Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19395	It's not about ignorance and the inability to accept it here. It's about me saying that there are different amendments and that we've already given a certain answer in reason, and I don't want to give up on that right now. Of course, among other things, given the position agreed on by the Government, and that is quite logical, but MPs can do so in the far line. So it's not about ignorance, it's about my judgment that you decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19396	I'm obliged to make an explanation in relation to your request. So the chairman is not obliged to give an explanation of the views, but he is in relation to the course of the session. The proposer shall have the possibility to accept or accept something by the end of the debate in particular. Given that it is often necessary for some amendments, which we understand, to consult and other resolute ministries concerned or to produce a certain effect, there is another possibility, which is, of course, to say informally before voting to MPs through parliamentary groups and thus also influence the adoption of one amendment. Satisfied with the clarification? Thank you. Of course, all of this is affected by this speed of work, and I am obliged to give notice of how the session's workflow will run, so that you can all plan your obligations, in relation to the government's session and in relation to the MPs. Today, we will work until the end of the debate on amendments to the laws proposed by the Serbian government, whose representative is the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Friday's session will not be on Monday, too, and Tuesday we will begin and finish the debate in particular on the proposal for a law on the protection of citizens. That means we're gonna schedule the most likely vote for Wednesday. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic to Article 90. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Djuric. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19397	Article 94 is set out in this Part of the Bill on sponsorship and advertising. In the introductory section, this is Article 89(2), you proposed that the provisions of this advertising law be applied accordingly to sponsorship, if this law is not otherwise regulated. If you read attitude 1 then you will see that the sponsor can be a physical and legal person. Both the recipient of the funds and the one who needs to make direct advertising can also be a natural and legal person. A natural person can put a board on his back, walk through Belgrade and carry an ad message because he sponsors either a physical person or a company. How do you apply the advertising provisions? I don't think it's possible. Sponsorship is what we have on TV. It's theoretically possible that every show in the lower right corner has a sign, a message that points to a sponsor, so we have a sponsor of the exact time, a sponsor of a meteorological report, a sponsor for a diary, and on BK television, we have a sponsor for advertising, for an ad deck. For everything, we can have a sponsor and how now the advertising provisions apply to a 24-hour sponsorship. Last night, you watched TV, you watched a football game, and on the right side for the duration of the game, it was a sign. After that, there goes the exact time and again the sign. How do you apply anything from advertising? Usually, as a form of sponsoring or sponsoring advertising, it is taken as a business sign. Why did I make this introduction? Because Article 94 regulates multiple sponsorship. The third stance says, "A sponsored person cannot conclude new sponsorship contracts without the consent of sponsors with whom he is already in a contractual relationship." We ask that this agreement be changed, that it be notified. Why? What you stated in the first two attitudes can be interpreted in both narrow and wide. It's possible that one TV show has two or three sponsors. At the start of the broadcast there was one, so after two months there was a need for someone else to be sponsor, if it was some play series where the funds were needed, etc., and then the third sponsor, etc. By interpreting it here, it can be interpreted as general sponsorship. That's why it's best to let those people negotiate. So the one who broadcasts the program and the one who wants to get his commercials, his sign finds it clearly recognizable that this company is the sponsor of that show. If the contract regulates that he's the only one who sponsors that show, then that's how it's gonna be. If they give room to two, three sponsors, there's a possibility. But why condition it now with consent. We can't get that far into their contractual relationship. This contract is a freight contract. It may not be clearly defined and clearly appointed in the Law on Liabilities, but by some analogy, the legal nature of the contract can be established and there is no need to now put in some new provisions and to slow down their business relationship with each other. Secondly, you know that the program's emitters are doing very well, so they say – sponsor, then sponsor, then media promoter, throw everything and everything, and for several years we've had a situation to advertise on advertising videos and the agency that produced that video, so whether it's "wild," "wild," or someone else doesn't matter, but he also puts his logo on to know who is the author of such an ad material. That is why we believe that, if it were to insist on consent, as a condition for anyone else to appear as a sponsor, in this way we limit their autonomous right guaranteed by the Law on Liabilities, along with all these reserves, because interpretation comes to the legal nature of this sponsorship agreement. We think that this way you don't mind what you wanted to do, that in some way you can allow more people to be sponsors of some show or program, that this attitude, how you formulated it, we overcome it, we go beyond the scope of some authority that we can use here, and we don't see what that would be a valid reason not to be informed, but consent. We don't see what that would be for. It's their pure contractual relationship. Why does the state interfere in a contractual relationship? The company that gives the funds to advertise within some show, so let it be a weather forecast, lasts one minute and you've seen it in the corner always, and even with a voice -- a meteor-prognosis sponsor, this and that firm, and in the forecast between Europe and Serbia, they also put in a commercial. Now, if television wants to have another sponsor for that meteorological report, let it deal with the first sponsor and with some future who would like to get involved. Why would they now insist on needing consent? What if you wrote that you needed consent, so this one doesn't give consent? They'll break the contract on their own. What are we doing helping this way? You think we're putting in some kind of order? There's a total mess. After this law, there will be an even bigger mess, so be sure of it. As long as state television can sell its minutes per discount to someone selected, then it offers on the market those minutes, but conditions them that his agency is making propaganda material. You know everything. It's small Serbia. Everything about us knows and why this law is passed and why this is supposed to be arranged. There aren't any big ones, I don't know the West, etc., pressure. The monetary fund, he doesn't care how anyone's gonna advertise in Serbia. They don't care about that at all. Have you asked these from the west and asked them for an opinion, they would have told you in 87 and 88. Don't get as far away from the SRS as you can, so can Batić, so can Natasa Kandic, everyone can, just don't radicals, because they are dangerous. We're trying to show you that some solutions are not in line with our basic laws that we have to comply with, that some solutions are neither justified nor celebular, and for some solutions you can't even give us an answer. You can't offer the right answer why that's exactly how it has to be. Why? Freedom of bargaining exists. They're finding their own interest. In the event of a dispute, a court of law is known, and why would we raise it to my level of consent? We have much bigger things to agree on, so someone did it without a question. Here's how he sold Karic in Kosovo and Metohija using Mobtel etc. Did he ask the state, did he ask Telekom, did he ask the Post Office, did he ask anyone? He didn't ask anyone. What did you do? Nothing. Why? Half of the government supports Karic, and half of him does not support him. As soon as someone mentions Karic – It will jump right off and the end of the story. If that's how you apply the laws, take care of what you write in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19398	National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted the amendment to Article 97. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milan Stanimirovic submitted to the 101st amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19399	Article 101 of this proposal regulates judicial protection, and since it is the first member in the area, it regulates the action. Article 101(1) reads: "A person whose right is, or interest, injured or threatened by a notice shall have the right to protection which he or she makes in the case of a competent court. For the damage caused by the ad message, the solid advertiser and the advertiser manufacturer correspond." Now what we are intervening – we are asking for a change in attitude 3, and here you can hear the position 3: "The persons that are published by the advertising message responds in solidarity for the damage caused by the ad message, if they did not request or receive a duly completed declaration in accordance with Article 11 of this Law, or if it was conscious... ", I'm potentialing this consciously, "... or, under the circumstances of the case, it must have been aware that the publication of such a notice may cause damage." We ask that the third word "knowledge" or the concept of consciousness, which has one meaning right, be replaced by "knowledge" or "knowledge". It means it was known. Now I have to go back to yesterday's debate over a member. He referred to advertising messages that are untrue and are intended to deceive the user. They simply advertise a product with some properties that this product does not have. That's when I stated that there was an intended punishment for the offence, but that the text itself did not make it clear who was responsible for the offence. I'm not talking about material responsibility. The material responsibility shall be governed by Article 101. It was left unarranged whether it was the manufacturer, the one who produced the ad message, or the one who broadcast it. In this material responsibility it is quite clear that they respond – whoever is advertiser, legal person, entrepreneur or natural person whose business name, personality, activity, product or service is recommended. So, the one who keeps his name or his products showing up, so it can be both a manufacturer and a transporter and someone who represents a company from abroad and an advertising producer, but doesn't respond to a TV station. The third attitude says it can match the TV station that broadcasts, but if she was aware of the circumstances of the case, and you've tied her to article 11, which regulates the declaration. Therefore, the advertiser is obliged to provide the person who publishes, or broadcasts the advertising message, with the advertising message and the completed form, which in particular contains information about the manufacturer, advertiser, etc. But you've put his responsibility even more into place. You've not only tied his responsibility to whether he got the declaration, whether he asked for a declaration, but also to his consciousness - if he's aware that these may have deceived him. Well, that can't stand in the law. Why would RTS or any TV station answer if it broadcasts an ad message that Gilas's firm made? A foreign company is advertised with some product characteristics that do not exist and damage occurs, if they have received a declaration in which everything is declared in accordance with Article 11, and all fulfils all the prescribed conditions that it is not dangerous, to know who it is, what it is, what the properties are, etc. Why would they answer? Because, watch out, you've introduced here the awareness that whoever broadcasts the message is aware that it could, that it might, that something might happen. How can he be aware that it's possible that something might happen when he's got a declaration where he swears it can't happen. That is why you need to accept this amendment, because this is more specific, more specifically for the court; it will be easier to determine the facts on which it can rule in this matter. It's one thing to have knowledge, and another to have consciousness. Whether or not he had any knowledge is a fact that can be determined, and in consciousness it's already in the domain of conjecture. Could he, on the basis of some facts and circumstances, have been in a position to have awareness of what was going on and how? Well, I guess you won't be looking for his consciousness based on whether he was using that product and checking his properties. That'd be a little over the top. Nothing is lost if this amendment is adopted, but it is assisted by courts in the event of potential damage disputes that may arise, by being deceived or damaged by someone, by the transmission of a message that has a content that hides the main properties of the product or is unlawfully affecting consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19400	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19401	Meanwhile, another amendment has arrived that has been tabled by the Committee on Trade and Tourism, similar content. In fact, it is essentially coming out to meet what Mr Krasic was saying, so since it is a proposal from the Committee, and it is a little simpler, I suggest that the amendment be accepted to the same member, that is, which was submitted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19402	Thank you. That's next, and you're informing us in advance that you'll accept it. You, therefore, are fine. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Branislav Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19403	It's okay, I just have an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this amendment has been accepted, but I would like to give a few suggestions to Mr. Secretary. They are tied to chapter eight, which bears the name – "Protect the recipient of advertising messages". We've already talked about the protection of minors, but I'd like to draw attention to the need to keep in mind institutions and lines that are advertised daily on our TV channels, in many magazines and daily newspapers. Many parents are damaged by telephone accounts, so we should consider this very important factor. When it comes to advertising at the time of the TV show, I also said in principle that it's ungrateful and anti-productive advertising at the time of the TV series our housewives are watching, and last night we had a chance, when we watched the match SCG-Spain, to see it. That's what Mr. Krasic was talking about. It is an antiproductive, broadcast of advertising messages that irritate viewers more than it contributes to advertising itself. I would return to Article 68, item 2, where point 6 is said to prohibit open advertising in public parks and on public sports grounds. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this case they want to protect themselves from the competition of our sports fields, because we know that our sport, especially amateurs, is in a very difficult state and that brewery is known throughout the world, and also with us, the main sponsors of sports teams and teams and teams. So I think television here wants to take an absolute primate and simply this little sponsorship that our clubs have is trying to deny them. When it comes to protecting citizens from political parties, gentlemen, there should be another proposal here that could be, which is that special TV channels can be set for advertising political parties. So let's leave it to the viewers themselves to choose whether they'll watch a channel that's specifically designed to advertise political parties and so on. Mr. Minister could also take care to protect his own fellow ministers, in such a way that he could introduce an alcohol test and doping control for individual ministers, who sign very important contracts for our country, unfortunately for the damage of our country, and as far as the penalties for political parties are concerned, the only punishment by our citizens is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19404	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 139(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Minister Dimitrijevic just accepted the amendment, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 107th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 108 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 109th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 109th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Lazarevic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Lazarevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19405	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the respected ministry, not entering the controversy this time, which was led by a member of 87, where some fellow MPs are asked to abolish the possibility of political parties not to advertise outside of the election campaign, I am pleased that the political party has also adopted such a proposal for a radio-diffusion law, or at least adopted it in the previous period. I must remind you that the Radio Diffusion Act, which prescribed this, was passed in 2002. To remind colleagues who were then in power that they voted in favour of the decision, and now they're looking for a second decision. It's clearly different when you're in opposition and position and you're right to do that. What I wanted with this amendment was, it seemed to me at the beginning that there was some misunderstanding by the minister and the ministry when it came to this area, to fix it. So we heard the minister's explanation when he talked about whether or not he should remain a member of 87. As I have noticed, if the ban remains, if Article 87 remains, which is a ban on functioning, advertising of political parties outside the pre-election campaign, then it is illogical not to adopt the amendment that I propose, which defines what is called a violation, if the political party is advertised outside the election campaign. So you can't be illogical, or you'll let the political parties advertise outside of the election campaign, which is not the subject of my conversation, or if it is done, you'll sanction it. This is, on condition, the technical repair of this law. You cannot allow it to remain a member of 87 that prohibits advertising of political parties, not allowing sanctions for those who violate the law. Mr. Minister has called for Article 113, attitude 16. The Law on Radio Diffusion; it defines punishment i.e. A violation if the political party is advertised. I must point out that the transitional and final provisions of the Radio-Difusion Act cease to apply when this law enters into force. So we leave one inability, a void. I don't see it logical, or you'll agree to accept an amendment to Article 87 that allows political parties to advertise, or if you stay in a position not to be advertised outside of the election campaign, then it will be logical that there is a violation for whoever does such an act. I just want to technically correct the law, otherwise it seems to me that it will remain inconclusive and there will be no violation for those who break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19406	Thank you, Mr. Lazarevich. The same amendment was reported by MP Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19407	We cannot look at this proposed amendment beyond the context of Article 87. What does this amendment want to achieve? To impose sanctions, that's an idea. I must present a few arguments to the amendment, which is why the Democratic Party considers it truly to be a member of 87. The bill doesn't have to exist. Don't, like the minister, go into a trap that's defined by the Radio Diffusion Act. I want to remind you, if you have carefully read the law, we will return to Article 2. – what do you define by advertising? It's not just media advertising. It is also posters, lenses, billboards and all other activities that the parties carry out. So, basically by this provision of a member of the law, you're expanding the scope that exists, defined by the Radio Diffusion Act. After that, you impose sanctions on them by Article 109. I ask you, when we look at the width that needs to be defined by this member of the law, is that in spirit with the political freedoms that each of us promotes and defines the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Or is it a complete restriction of political freedom? Will you agree with me that the political parties, what we've been saying all morning, are not running a campaign just when it's an election campaign? They're campaigning during that period, as it is now, until the election is called. These are political parties' activities. That's what you want to limit them to. I want to ask you, and you were in that situation, does that mean you won't be able to have those billboards -- "G17 plus in Europe"? Why are you doing this to yourself? Why do we all want to do this together? I can't accept the wording said by the minister, which was pretty bad, about political harassment. These are political activities, everyone has the right to present themselves. But you will agree with me, individual issues, political definitions, parties, have the right to go out and criticize. Whether it will work with a flyer, a poster, in any other way, by its activity, so it will invite citizens, why it restricts them and imposes sanctions on them. I still want to remind you that Serbia and the political parties in Serbia do not only have, within the framework of political engagement, their meetings. Across Serbia, there are parties that are making humanitarian activities, so they call on citizens, potential sponsors, thus animate them to raise more funds. These are all activities that parties can do, which are legitimate, defined by the Constitution, by law. You're restricting their right and now you want to punish them. Now this provision, and it really is in the Radio Diffusion Act; so it ceases to be a provision, you expand the scope. So you're expanding from the electronic media, moving on to all the other activities that the parties have, and beyond that we're imposing sanctions. That's certainly not democratic. That's why we suggested that Article 87 be deleted. Please don't tell us that we're not consistent in our politics. We did. But what you're doing is something that can't really, who's democratically defined in this country, be understood. Why do you restrict the right of political parties to carry out their activities even outside election campaigns? Why do you want to punish them? It's an argument that we go before the MPs, in front of people who know this issue very well, and we also speak to citizens, who know it very well. It's not harassment. If this is harassment, let us end the political parties in Serbia and practically bring it down to something that was known to Serbian citizens long before parliamentary life came to life. Really, I can't understand, and I can't accept the argument that you went out with. You want to impose sanctions completely pointless. I once again appeal to the minister, this amendment cannot be seen past Article 87. Article 87 is quite restrictive. If you look at the definitions that exist in this law, you'll see what it's really about. Anyone who cares about the parties being able to campaign uninterrupted, activate, communicate with citizens is aware that they will be brought into a difficult situation. With such a provision, you will be in a situation where the law will be inadmissible. I want to ask you, who will be the one who, because of any activity the parties are taking, will possibly impose sanctions and impose sanctions? I'm really asking you to get serious about this. I think it is very important, I remind you once again, Article 87, and the proposed amendment to Article 109 is to limit political freedoms in Serbia. Please take very seriously the argument of the Democratic Party, which we have made on the subject of Article 87 and the amendment that my colleague Lazarevic submitted to Article 109. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19408	Thank you, Mr. Radosavljevic. On the occasion of Articles 87 and 109, the minister said very precisely that he was not in a position to announce the decision to accept the amendments until the end of the debate in particular. It's about the notion of advertising being wider than the concept of advertising, clearly. So, compared to business opportunities, they will inform the parliamentary groups and we will find a way to correct that position. In that sense, we all support the discussions of all of us together. Thank you. There are no speakers left on this amendment. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic have jointly tabled an amendment suggesting that Article 110a be added after article 110a. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Prof. Dr. Bojan Dimitrijevic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Service want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE CONSUMER (specificities) You have received amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You received notice that MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic withdrew the amendments to Articles 7, 10, 22, 26, 61, 63, 66 and 67. Proposal for a consumer protection law. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Since there are no amendments, because they have been withdrawn, as I have just informed you, I ask if the representative of the proposing Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Service wants to give the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a PRICE LAW (specificity) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment together submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade, Tourism and Services and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the submission of the amendment, but also the notification that the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic have withdrawn the amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a price law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since the only amendment has been withdrawn, I ask if Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Service wants to give the final word in relation to these three laws? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, at the end of this debate, I think we have done a significant and great job, and we have made a major step forward in what is called the objective, which is the free market, the competitive market and the market in which the higher degree of well-being of all citizens will be achieved. The Consumer Protection Act has extended and established many essential rights relating to consumers. It is a particularly important law on the protection of competition, and indeed, after the adoption of the law, we will have full hands to work quickly to establish the commission and to make it work effectively. When it comes to the law on public advertising, I think we're introducing order into this area. I think now several institutions will be given the authority to control the public advertising process. I think the proposed solutions will significantly reduce the size of the gray economy in this area and in the economy as a whole. When it comes to a disputed solution, relating to Article 87, I think we will find an appropriate solution by the end of the vote. Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs for their participation in the debate, for their amendments and constructive remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-08-0.u19410	Thank you, Minister Dimitrievich. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. The continuation of the session, as we exchanged the notices with each other, was held on Tuesday, 13 September 2005, at 10.00 p.m., with discussion in detail on the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens. Thank you for your responsibility and a nice weekend. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the start of the working day of the National Assembly. Wait a minute, I'll give you my word, just to be clear. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Knezevic and Goran Svilanovic. You'll get the word, for Christ's sake, after the previous speaker's finished. A little courtesy. Thank you. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. Prior to that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
